Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday May 18 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
On the line with me today are Doug Scovanner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President Merchandising.
This morning I'll provide a high-level summary of our first quarter results and priorities going forward and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally Doug will provide detail on our first quarter financial results and outlook for the rest of the year.
Following Doug's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and Doug will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
This morning we announced first quarter earnings per share of $0.99 up 9.8% on top of last year's 30% increase.
This performance was the result of unusually strong profitability in our Credit Card segment which offset the impact in the Retail segment of softer-than-expected sales.
In the Retail segment driving sales continues to be our biggest challenge and #1 priority.
Comparable store sales grew 2% in the first quarter due to the contribution from our remodel program and 5% REDcard Rewards.
Outside of sales and traffic driven by these initiatives guests were cautious in their behavior as they faced continued economic headwinds including near record high prices at the gas pump.
As a result food and commodity categories performed well while we experienced less consistent patterns including some sales declines in the rest of the store.
In our Credit Card segment we continued to benefit from strong execution and disciplined underwriting by our team combined with an improving credit environment.
As a result portfolio risk levels continued to decline leading to a strong improvement in expenses and profitability compared to last year.
While the U.S.
economy is showing some signs of improvement we expect the recovery will continue to be slow and uneven particularly for more moderate-income households.
We believe these households need to see further improvements in housing and income growth before they'll have the capacity to meaningfully increase their discretionary spending.
In addition unemployment remains stubbornly high hampering overall consumer sentiment and spending.
Our PFresh remodel program is on track in driving meaningful increases in traffic and sales.
We now have 550 general merchandise locations incorporating our expanded food layout and we expect to remodel approximately 300 more locations by the end of October.
These remodels completely transform the look and feel of the store creating a more relevant assortment in a more compelling and exciting shopping environment.
Guests continue to tell us how much they love what we've done to their Target in these remodels and they show us by increasing their trips to remodeled stores causing traffic to increase an average of about 6% in the first year after the remodel is completed.
Our other major sales driving initiative 5% REDcard Rewards is also performing as expected enhancing loyalty and driving incremental traffic and sales among our better and best guests.
Even though this program only launched nationwide last October REDcard sales penetration increased 2.7 percentage points above last year to 7.6% a level we haven't experienced since 2003.
And household level data continues to confirm that just under 1/2 of this additional sales penetration is the result of purchases that are incremental for Target.
Beyond these broad initiatives our merchandising teams are working diligently to drive units consistent reliability and value on high-quality well-designed merchandise in every assortment.
We are fostering an environment that rewards appropriate risk taking ensuring our teams are constantly seeking new ways to surprise and delight our guests on every visit to our stores and target.com.
We want our guests to be confident that they can find reliably low prices on the items they need while creating excitement with the latest fashions and trends throughout the store.
In our stores we are vigilant in our efforts to provide a superior shopping experience with clean safe well-organized stores and fast friendly service on both the sales floor and at checkout.
We opened 10 new Target stores in March getting 5 locations net of one relocation.
We expect to open another 15 stores in the next 2 quarters and we continue to look for opportunities to open additional locations of our current formats in markets throughout the U.S.
We're very excited about the upcoming launch of our new online platform which we expect to greatly improve the shopping experience for online and mobile guests.
This ambitious project is on time and on budget and our team is now focused on executing a flawless launch in terms of stability and the overall experience.
We've designed this experience to be best-in-class providing greater personalization advice community navigation product detail and visual appeal.
Looking beyond 2011 we will continue to open additional locations of our current formats in the United States when we find projects that meet our strategic and financial criteria.
In 2012 we expect to open 15 to 20 new stores in our current formats and expect to slowly ramp up that pace in future years.
In addition we continue to develop our plans for a new small urban format called City Target and expect to open about 5 locations of this concept in 4 markets in 2012.
We're planning each of these locations with a very customized and local approach designed to fit the particular trade area in which each store will operate.
While this approach is a key to success for the City Target strategy we expect to gain insights from these stores that we can apply to our larger format stores in the U.S.
and Canada.
Our Canadian market entry continues to generate a great deal of excitement.
We're still in the process of evaluating sites working with landlords for the current Zellers stores to determine which sites we will begin to lease and subsequently how many of those sites will become Canadian Target stores.
Separately we're building and developing a Target Canada team which is responsible for developing and executing our marketing entry strategy.
This team is deeply engaged in studying Canada broadly along with each of the separate markets throughout the country.
This will allow the team to develop a detailed merchandising and marketing strategy that will meet the unique needs of the Canadian guests in each province.
In addition this team is developing technology and supply chain solutions that will allow us to open our first Canadian Target stores in early 2013.
In each of these efforts our goal is to stay true to the Target brand while ensuring that our strategy is appropriate for the Canadian market.
At Target we say "Speed is life" and we're living it every day.
Today's challenging environment requires that we carefully listen to our guests to understand their wants and needs.
We need to constantly monitor the economic and competitive environment and understand how they impact our business.
We're seeking new ways both large and small to drive traffic and sales in existing stores while thoughtfully growing our store base in the U.S.
and beyond.
We won't take anything for granted.
We're proud of our brand and long history of strong performance and committed to enhancing both.
Our team more than 355 000-strong is aligned energetic and moving our business forward.
I want to recognize them for their tireless effort.
They define our competitive advantage and make me proud to be at Target every day.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on our first quarter results share recent guest insights and outline initiatives for the second quarter and beyond.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
In the first quarter we experienced consistent strength in our less-discretionary assortments like healthcare beauty and food while we saw volatility in the sales of many other categories.
At times the volatility correlated with weather patterns across the country and clearly Easter timing had a dramatic impact on the pattern of March and April sales.
As we've outlined in prior conference calls guests are shopping closer to the moment of need waiting until the last minute to come out and cautiously spend.
We saw this pattern in April as holiday-sensitive categories like candy toys entertainment and kids’ apparel experienced a notable surge in the 2 weeks before Easter.
Recent guest research indicates that confidence in the future is once again increasing particularly for upper-income households.
Consumers continue to place a priority on reducing debt and are now more likely to save up before spending on events like a vacation.
Guests continue to indicate that household budgets are tight particularly in the face of higher gas prices but they acknowledge that their spending discipline creates fatigue over time leading to an occasional indulgence when presented with the right opportunity.
As Gregg mentioned we're working diligently to provide our guests compelling reasons to visit our stores and to fill their baskets on those visits.
While we can help our guests by providing great prices on high-quality items we can also help them to find opportunities to splurge in small ways that feel smart and responsible.
In electronics committed to providing more knowledgeable service helping guests make more informed decisions and find exactly what they want.
Our guest surveys show that we've made meaningful progress with higher ratings for an engaging experience and having knowledgeable team members who are available when they're needed.
We've also added a trade-in program at our Target Mobile locations providing guests a convenient way to responsibly return outdated devices while earning Target store credit that can be used for purchases in any category across the store.
Target Mobile is in about 1 300 stores today and we'll have this concept in about 1 490 stores by the end of June.
We're also pleased with the results since we launched My Target Tech last year.
Guest satisfaction with this free support service has been very high and we've seen a decline in electronics items returned since the launch of the program.
In healthcare we're pleased with increases in awareness resulting from our Ask Us campaign which highlights our approachable and friendly pharmacists.
This year we're continuing to focus on assuring our guests that Target can make healthcare easy and affordable offering convenient services like flu shots at an amazing price.
In both Healthcare and Beauty we've identified an opportunity to enhance segmentation across stores and markets providing deeper multicultural assortments and addressing demographic groups like empty-nesters.
In Home we've identified opportunities to better serve key guest segments in assortments like kids party where we're seeing great results with our new owned brand Spritz.
We're also strengthening our assortment and presentation in key areas like kitchenware because we know that many of our guests are increasingly focused on cooking and eating at home.
We're focused on an opportunity to help guests furnish small living spaces providing thoughtful and affordable solutions that make these spaces feel more comfortable and functional.
And with our current dominance in seasonal holiday programs we're focusing on an even stronger presence in key seasons: Valentine's Day Easter summer Back-to-School Back-to-College Halloween and the fourth quarter holiday season.
Target's theme for summer this year is Make Summer Funner highlighting Target's role in helping guests make the most of the season.
We'll offer nautical-themed graphics on water bottles beach towels lanterns and paper goods and incorporate bright colors and sunny patterns in tabletop items backyard essentials picnic and beach supplies.
In apparel we continue to see incredible growth in C9 by Champion active wear and we believe we have the potential to continue to grow this billion-dollar brand.
This assortment is a perfect fit with the Target brand and core guest providing men women and kids with outstanding value on the latest technology on products that support their family's health and well-being.
We continue to evolve our designer partnership strategy focusing on fewer but bigger programs.
We're currently enjoying strong sales across multiple categories with our limited-time assortment from Calypso St.
Barth.
And we're very excited about our recently announced partnership with Missoni that will launch this September for a limited time.
Target will be partnering with this high-end designer brought brand to introduce a limited-time collection spanning multiple product categories including home baby beauty and apparel for women men and kids.
Beyond limited-time programs we're focusing on bringing value differentiation and newness to every part of our store.
For example in denim we continue to build on successful strategies from last year like adding additional fit options for women and deepening the category throughout apparel.
In addition strong back wall presentations look great and allow us to be more reliably in stock every day.
We're particularly excited about our partnership with Levi Strauss and the launch of their Dennison brand exclusively at Target in July.
This will provide a great opportunity to expand our branded offering and will serve as a perfect complement to our existing denim assortment.
In home we're pleased with early results from the recently expanded Smith &amp; Hawken collection available on target.com which includes expertly crafted teak patio furniture solid-forged garden tools and decor items.
In food we just launched 2 exclusive new Ben &amp; Jerry's Ice Cream flavors in April Volun-tiramisu and Peanut Butter World.
These whimsical flavors support Target's partnership with Ben &amp; Jerry's in support of volunteerism by encouraging guests to visit VolunteerMatch.org after they've enjoyed one of these summer treats.
In entertainment we continue to enjoy partnerships with world-class artists across the musical spectrum offering deluxe edition CDs with additional content available only at Target.
In the first quarter we announced partnerships with Grammy award-winning singer and actress Jennifer Hudson and country artist Alison Krauss.
With the theatrical release of the movie Cars 2 in June we're planning a broad assortment of themed items across multiple categories including bedding sleepwear food and toys.
In toys we will make a dominant statement with 65 items including 21 that are available only at Target.
In our stores we'll capture every child's attention with an interactive end cap showcasing an exclusive line of powered racing sets.
And in beauty we continue to make specialty beauty accessible and affordable through designer cosmetic and hair care collections.
This spring we're launching new products from Sonia Kashuk Jemma Kidd Napoleon Curtis and Pixi by Petra Strand.
In the last conference call I outlined our plans to preserve gross margins in the face of input cost inflation in fabrics and other raw materials.
During the first quarter these pressures accelerated as rising oil prices lead to increases in shipping costs.
As I indicated last quarter we're attempting to drive down costs through product design fabric standardization and optimization of pricing promotions and sizing.
However in some cases we've had to increase retail prices to offset higher costs and we've seen others in the marketplace do the same.
For the spring we've increased prices in the low- to mid-single-digit range for some categories in apparel and increases have been in the double digits for some items in soft home.
For the fall we now believe increases will move into the double digits in both apparel and home and will affect a greater portion of these assortments than in the spring.
We'll continue to be thoughtful and strategic in our approach to pricing and we'll continue to monitor the market to ensure our prices remain competitive.
Importantly when we anticipate retail price increases we are diligent in adjusting unit buys to ensure that our inventory position remains appropriate.
While we noted the environment presents numerous headwinds we embrace the challenge of driving profitable sales and providing our guests ever-increasing value on the items they want and need.
We know our guests expect Target to deliver on both halves of our "Expect More.
Pay Less." brand promise and we are confident we can continue to earn deeper guest loyalty by anticipating their ever-changing needs and surprising them with newness on every visit.
Now Doug will cover first quarter financial performance and provide details on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Doug? Thanks Kathy.
This morning I'll provide additional detail on our first quarter results then summarize our progress on the 2 major transactions we have underway our acquisition of Canadian leasehold interests from Zellers and our intended sale of guest accounts receivable and a related agreement to service these accounts going forward.
At the end of my remarks I'll wrap up with some clarified guidance on our expectations for the rest of the year.
As you know earlier today we released our results for the first quarter which included earnings per share of $0.99 representing a 9.8% increase from the record $0.90 we earned in the first quarter of last year.
As is usually the case these results contain certain elements that should be celebrated and another set of elements that clarify our near-term challenges.
In our U.S.
Retail segment our sales growth was weaker than we expected at the beginning of the quarter while our EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were in line with our expectations.
Although these margin rates were lower than last year's levels as we discussed in our prior conference call this had more to do with the exceptional strength of last year's pace than with any aspect of this year's performance.
Our EBITDA margin rate of 10.1% of sales for example is the second best performance on this metric in any first quarter in modern history second only to last year's achievement of a 10.7% of sales.
We expected our gross margin rate to decline in the first quarter due to the strength of last year's base and the impact of our 2 sales driving strategies if the magnitude of this decline was slightly worse than we expected.
Offsetting this impact our expense performance was a little better than we had expected.
Net-net the key to our future prosperity lies in the continuing challenge to reinvigorate our sales growth while generally preserving our very healthy EBITDA and EBIT margin rates in this segment.
In our U.S.
Credit Card segment our core performance measures segment profit grew from $111 million last year to $194 million this year principally as a result of an acceleration of favorable trends in nearly all measures of risk related to these Credit Card loans.
As a result bad debt expense recorded in the quarter fell to only $12 million compared with $197 million last year.
While the magnitude of this improvement is not likely to be sustainable our risk trends continue to be very impressive in this segment.
Also as previously discussed our results today included a Canadian segment for the first time.
In the quarter we recorded $11 million of startup expenses in this segment diluting our aggregate EPS results by about $0.01.
We aggressively executed against our share repurchase authority in the quarter as we wanted to get a strong jump on our annual plan early in the year.
In total we invested just over $800 million buying back our shares reducing our outstanding shares to 689 million at quarter end.
This is the first time in decades that our shares have fallen below 700 million on a split adjusted basis.
For reference we peaked at just over 913 million shares in the first quarter of 2004.
We continue to believe that this activity will create a lot of value over time for our remaining shareholders as we believe that our shares are significantly undervalued even in light of our challenges in the current environment.
The value created from this activity will be especially strong if we come even close to producing the $8 of EPS we believe is achievable by 2016 or 2017.
Turning to the 2 transactions which are in flight at the moment let's first review our Canadian market entry.
As you know we agreed in January to pay Zellers a fixed price of CAD $1.825 billion for an option to acquire up to 220 of their existing store leases.
At that time we outlined our plan to convert somewhere between 100 to 150 of these sites to open as Target stores in 2013 and 2014 as the first step to what will likely add up to more than 200 Target stores in Canada over the next 10 years.
Our first payment of 1/2 of the amount owed to Zellers is due at the end of next week enabling our acquisition of up to 110 of these leases.
We're delighted with the progress we've made so far with landlords who collectively comprise the significant majority of the stores we want to convert and nearly all of the best stores we hope to convert.
Within the next few weeks we expect to be in a position to clarify how many leases will be named in this first tranche and more particularly of that total how many we expect will become Target stores after a significant investment in leasehold improvements.
Between now and September we'll continue our discussions with the remaining landlords and also with third-party retailers to determine from the remaining Zellers stores which leases we might choose to assume for our use and which leases we might elect to assign to other retailers or assign back to the landlords in either case in exchange for some form of consideration.
Of course any leases that are not ultimately part of our transaction will remain with Zellers.
Turning next to our intended sale of credit card receivables and to the related servicing agreement we intend to execute with a bank partner the initial interest in partnering with us was as strong as we would have hoped and expected.
And at this point we're proceeding to a phase of more detailed 2-way due diligence with a smaller set of carefully selected high-quality large financial institutions.
Importantly we continue to believe that such a transaction could potentially close later this year allowing us to sell the existing portfolio and enter into a strategic and financial arrangement with our new partner all on terms that each of us would view as in our best interest.
During the quarter we successfully completed discussions with the Chase Card Services business segment of JPMorgan Chase to allow at our option an early exit of our 2008 transaction with them in exchange for paying a make-all premium at the time of such an early exit.
This enables us to market our Credit Card portfolio to others without the complexity of needing the workaround or otherwise accommodate this existing 2008 arrangement.
Now let's turn to our outlook for the second quarter and for the rest of the year.
The dynamics I've just described regarding Canada envision closing on a large number of highly valuable Canadian lease transactions sooner than we originally anticipated.
Strategically this is terrific news.
Although in the short run it will create more of an expense burden as we recognize additional depreciation and amortization expense.
90 days ago we said that the direct expenses of our planned Canadian market entry would burden our 2011 EPS by roughly $0.10.
And that together with indirect effects our overall results would be $0.15 to $0.20 lower in 2011.
We also tried to be clear that these figures were likely to change as we gained more clarity throughout the year.
As of today we believe that the estimate for direct expenses should be raised from roughly $0.10 to a new range of $0.16 to $0.20 for the year reflecting an expected $0.05 to $0.06 EPS impact in each of the next 3 quarters.
This provision is driven in part by these strategically important real estate dynamics and in part to a more refined analysis than was possible until we were further along in the process.
In summary both the expected profits once we open in Canada and the expected burdens prior to opening are larger than we thought was likely 90 days ago.
Today the median First Call estimates for Target for the second quarter and full year are $1 and $4.23 respectively.
Our ability to deliver results in line with these projections depends in large part on 3 key measures of our performance.
First we clearly need to pick up the pace of same-store sales increases to drive the top line growth required to deliver this kind of EPS performance.
We continue to expect same-store sales growth to meaningfully accelerate as the year progresses even in light of our softer-than-expected sales performance in the first quarter.
So far through the first half of May we've enjoyed a stronger sales trend and were on pace to achieve growth in same-store sales consistent with the low- to mid-single-digit outlook we shared at the beginning of the month.
Second we would need to produce U.S.
Retail segment EBITDA margins in the range of a fully healthy 10% for the year.
In the first quarter as expected we experienced a margin rate decline which put this rate at just over this 10% benchmark.
And in the second quarter we again expect to deliver EBITDA margins in line with our first quarter experience.
For the fall we would need to at least stabilize year-over-year trends to achieve a rate close to 10% for the year.
Finally we would need to continue to experience the very strong trends we've enjoyed over the past several quarters in our U.S.
Credit Card segment.
We believe we're likely to enjoy average pretax returns on the capital Target has invested in this segment in the range of 20% or better on an annualized basis for the rest of the year.
Please bear in mind that beginning in the second quarter the kind of year-over-year growth in segment profit we've enjoyed for some time will be behind us as the amount of capital Target has invested in this segment is quite a bit less than we had invested last year and as we cycle prior-year periods that produced similarly strong ROIC performance driven in part by reserve reductions So what does this all mean? To us it means we recognize there are clear risks to our ability to achieve the magnitude of EPS growth implicit in current external estimates and some of these risks were underscored in the first quarter.
In the second quarter an EPS outlook of $1 which represents the current median First Call estimate seems potentially achievable.
Although as of today it is above the midpoint of a reasonable range of likely outcomes.
Similarly for the year $4.23 seems as if it is above the midpoint of a reasonable range requiring us to achieve some combination of all the 3 key performance benchmarks I outlined a moment ago to get there.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
We're pleased with our first quarter EPS performance but we're not satisfied with our Retail segment results.
We are focused on driving sales through major initiatives like our PFresh remodel program and the 5% REDcard Rewards while driving value and innovation in every category in our stores and online.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now Doug Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Strasser with Janney Montgomery Scott.
I'm just trying to look a little bit at the demographics.
I mean I think one of the things that you've talked about a bit Wal-Mart has talked about it particularly low [ph] and on work we've done at the lower end in particular continues to be a lot tougher than mid or higher end.
Can you just kind of give a little bit of a view about what percent of your business is $50 000 and below? Or however you feel comfortable giving some of that graphics and just kind of frame sort of where some of that difficulty is coming from? Well the way we would characterize our answer to that question is that we take a look back at the profile of household income demos of our guests and the guests of several competitors through some purchased research.
The last time we looked at this carefully our median is just over $60 000 that is well above that of Wal-Mart and well below that of say Kohl's Costco Macy's Bed Bath and others.
I guess if I ask you a little bit differently what -- as you kind of look at your analysis of your customers how different is sort of the I guess if you want to use the median how different is the spending that you're seeing below your median income versus above or how impactful do you think that is to the business? I think it's highly impactful and I personally don't need to look any farther than what's happening with the success of our 5% Rewards program to see that the response by guests driving the incremental sales is very heavily skewed to guests who are already our best better and best guests measured in annual sales.
And by and large that set of guests is above the median 60-plus thousand dollar income figure that I referenced earlier.
So our sales growth is coming from the top 1/2 not the bottom 1/2 of the income profile of guest households.
I would also add that the affinity for Target and whether they like us and enjoy shopping in our stores is very robust and it's the same in all demographic strata.
So even those that are more economically challenged at below the $60 000 or below the $50 000 a year household income still love shopping at Target but they just have less discretionary income to spend on those want kind of trips that as when times are better they would look to Target to come to.
And just one last final question I apologize but as you kind of look at the REDcard I know you kind of look at sort of the trend so far relative to what's happened in Kansas City.
Has that continued? Has it gotten better or worse? Or is it still very much in line with that? Our aggregate experience nationally is very much in line with precisely where we were in Kansas City a year ago which gives me even greater confidence that what we said 3 months ago remains true today.
And that is that we expect the contribution to our same-store sales performance from the 5% Rewards program to grow more rapidly in its importance possibly adding close to 2 percentage points to same-store sales growth later in the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Just Doug following up on that if you could update us in the quarter in terms of the 5% PFresh what that contributed to the quarter comp and maybe help us think then what that implies for the core? Each of 5% Rewards and PFresh contributed more than a full percentage point by our estimates to our total same-store sales growth of 2.0% implying that the core as you term it was slightly negative in the quarter.
Using that same definition I think it's important to observe that we're cycling against a core figure that was the strongest quarter last year by some measure.
We do not expect the core by that definition to remain in negative territory for the balance of the year.
So just following that line of thinking as you updated or gave us your thoughts on guidance what does that imply for comps for the remainder of the year? I mean last call it sounded as if 4% to 5% was the commitment for the year.
And how should we be thinking about that today? I don't believe that I used the word commitment.
I certainly used the words prediction or estimate or best guess or something of that kind in making that forward-looking statement.
I believe that we remain quite likely to achieve 4% to 5% same-store sales performance in the fall.
I believe that we're quite likely to experience better same-store sales growth in Q2 than we did in Q1.
And likewise in sequence better same-store sales growth in the fall than in the spring.
Whether the math actually adds up and weights out properly for the full year to be better than 4% hangs in the balance of how much better than 4% the aggregate of the next 3 quarters might be compared to the 2.0% that we just posted.
Obviously 2.0% was less than what we expected going into the quarter and therefore it certainly adjusted the prospects of achieving 4% to 5% for the full year.
Okay helpful.
And then Kathy maybe your comments on inflation in terms of  what have you seen so far? You talked about low- to mid-singles in the spring with soft home up double digits.
Maybe give us a sense of elasticity and as you're expecting prices to be up double digits in the fall you talked about being sensitive to units how are you planning inventories in light of what you're seeing today in terms of elasticity of demand? So in general Adrianne I would say that we are encouraged by our experience so far this spring.
So you're correct that our apparel increases were up in the low- to mid-single-digit and we hit double-digit in some categories in home.
And in general we're seeing that our competitors are also taking their retails up so the market is moving along with the cost increases.
And the response from our guest has been neutral to slightly positive on the sales line.
So obviously as we enter the fall season and the increases continue to grow in number of categories as well as the size we need to continue to be very thoughtful and strategic in where we take those retail increases.
But so far based on our spring results I'm encouraged.
Okay.
Then just lastly Doug the fact that Canada we should be expecting a bit higher and faster on the expense side should that also imply that we should expect these stores to open sooner than originally expected? No.
Our timetable for opening stores remains the same as we previously outlined.
We expect to open in several waves beginning in the spring of 2013 and we expect from among the Zellers leasehold interests to open 100 to 150 total stores between 2013 and '14 with the majority in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Two questions.
One is on the traffic in the quarter.
Clearly sales was a disappointment.
And while PFresh and REDcard are building we did see traffic decelerate really from at any quarter last year but right into this year to 0.4% from 1.6%.
Could you describe what that is if it is the REDcard is building is it bringing that higher-end consumer into the store more? What was really driving that deceleration in traffic? I think this circles right back to the discussion we were having a moment ago regarding I think the word was the core.
In other words excluding PFresh and 5% Rewards we were slightly negative for the quarter.
And the traffic trend that you're putting your finger on is right in line with that core figure.
In other words the fact that our units are accelerating and our average unit selling price is decelerating has a whole lot to do with PFresh for example.
And the traffic trend excluding these initiatives was negative in the quarter and meaning that it drives -- it's a direct correlation with that implied negative core same-store sales result.
Again I would also add that first quarter traffic deceleration trends could also be due to the fact that seasonal merchandise did not perform as expected throughout the store.
You've heard from other retailers that it’s been cooler and damper so far compared to last year.
And seasonal business is a big part of our business this time of year and we too were affected by that same trend.
So portion of that was probably due to that as well.
Duly noted Gregg you mentioned the weather not Doug.
We note it.
And then -- and as a follow-up to that if you're getting the traffic from that the higher-end consumer that has the REDcard how are you thinking about really more aggressively changing the merchandising so that customer that is in your store more frequently actually cross-shops not just apparel but home in particular where the comps have stayed soft? Well we don't think the REDcard Rewards program changes the merchandising philosophy at all.
I mean we focus on newness and freshness and making sure that each and every experience is relevant.
And so REDcard Rewards will complement that but there isn't any significant change in merchandising strategy as we think about that.
I would just add that because REDcard is our better and best guests and typically they are more affluent that I think that's where we seeing some of the increases in our better and best price points particularly the best.
So some of our higher-end brands this guest is shopping around the store and we do see strength in that best category as well as good.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Gregg you've comment -- or excuse me Doug you commented that expense performance is better than expected.
Was that in Retail or just in Credit? That comment was specific to our U.S.
Retail segment.
Can you expand on that please? Certainly.
So we're talking about favorable leverage in round terms of 20 basis points of sales on a relatively soft 2% same-store sales performance.
2% in same-store sales performance usually all else being equal would create more of a neutral than a favorable expense leverage environment.
On the positive side of the ledger and thinking through the things that are likely to influence future quarters as well first of all our stores' teams did a magnificent job favorably leveraging hourly payroll and benefits in light of that sales performance.
Separately in the notes to our financial statements you can see that effective with the launch of 5% Rewards we re-characterized the intersegment intra-company accounting essentially our Credit Card segment has a profit-sharing arrangement with our Retail segment just as we would expect to have a similarly structured arrangement with a new bank partner moving forward.
Those 2 items alone represented net 100% or more of the favorable expense leverage.
Separately in the category of things that happened in the quarter that don't really have forward-looking value or benefits from my standpoint oh there's a host of offsetting issues from timing issues to accrual adjustments to generally unfavorable leveraging of things that are inflating faster than our 2% sales.
But in the aggregate that whole bundle of issues generally nonrecurring issues if you will was relatively neutral in the quarter.
And then Gregg you said that you're not satisfied with the results so far.
How much of that is macro versus how much of that is within your control? Well it's hard to say.
There's probably -- both factors are impacting our business.
We clearly expected to drive stronger top line sales in the first quarter and we are disappointed that we didn't deliver on that.
So we're working extra hard to try and gain share in both the discretionary and nondiscretionary side of the business.
As we've said our Beauty business Healthcare Food and need-based businesses were very very solid and we struggled in the quarter in areas like electronics music and movies seasonal categories and some categories in home.
All-in-all we have to do better broadly across the store.
All right.
And then Kathy you talked about enhancing the segmentation in Healthcare and Beauty.
Are you doing this in other areas of the store as well? And then maybe can you talk about is that technology-based or what's driving that? We're segmenting across the whole store.
My comment was I think we based on the success that we've seen can go deeper in Beauty and in Healthcare.
And this is fairly advanced at Target.
We've been doing this for a number of years from volume strategies climate strategies lots of different segmentation.
So this is just a continuation for us deeper into some categories where we still see opportunity.
And particular in both Health and Beauty there's a lot going on there demographically.
Our Hispanic and African-American guests are really responding for -- to our Beauty offering.
And then I think with Healthcare the aging of the population that gives us opportunities to segment our assortment and improve upon our results.
So this is really done at a centralized level as opposed to at the store level? Correct.
Your next question comes from the line of John Zolidis with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Was wondering if you could talk -- there seems to be a perception that 5% Rewards and also PFresh to a lesser extent are being met with some cherry-picking by customers.
So in that regard they're coming in they're using the discount or they're buying the lower margin consumable items and therefore the margin impact of these 2 programs is more severe to the downside than what was anticipated in the original guidance.
So I know you've commented on this in the past but could you just address that? What are you seeing in terms of cross-shopping in different areas of the store? You need to segregate the analysis between the 2 but in either case the assertion that you've heard is just not true.
In the case of 5% Rewards the mix of sales driven at the margin in other words the incremental sales mix is only slightly different from the sales mix of our base business before 5% Rewards.
In the quarter that mix issue regarding 5% Rewards had a trivial impact on our aggregate gross margin rate.
In the aggregate gross margin rate was down between 80 and 90 basis points.
And the mix issue related to 5% Rewards was a low-single-digit number of basis points of that 80 to 90 basis point change.
So with respect to 5% Rewards totally off-the-mark.
With respect to PFresh we have acknowledged many many times that the sales mix on the incremental sales at the moment is very heavily skewed toward lower-margin merchandise in the store but that is right in line with our expectations not different from our expectations.
There there certainly is a sales mix issue.
It is exactly the one that we expected.
Net-net taking everything into account the gross margin rate on the incremental sales the incremental expenses and so forth PFresh continues to deliver aggregate profitability right in line with our original expectations.
So the 2 programs do behave very differently.
In total if you look at the gross margin rate change for the quarter the significant majority of the rate change is attributable to these 2 programs.
Let's call it 50 to 60 basis points of the aggregate 80 to 90 total.
The 50 to 60 is the impact that we would expect these 2 programs to have going forward.
The residual amount unexplained by these 2 programs in the quarter having a lot to do with last year's base by the way is a little bit of residual mix adverse mix unrelated to these 2 programs and net a small amount of gross margin rate change adverse gross margin rate change gross margin rate decline due to things other than 5% Rewards and other than PFresh.
Inc.</strong> And then on the Canada just one follow-up.
Do you still expect Canada to be accretive in 2013? Expect the Canada year-over-year to be hugely accretive in 2014.
Whether or not Canada is accretive in 2013 hangs in the balance of how dilutive it is in 2012 and that's something we have not commented on yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Robbie Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Two quick follow-up questions.
I was hoping maybe Doug you can answer this.
Could you remind us historically I am sure you guys have analyzed this up and down over the last 10 years what gas pump price impact generally is on your customers’ spending habits and traffic? And if where gas is now if that pattern is playing out the way it has historically or is there something different this time? And then the second is just a follow-up on the line of questioning you've been getting from Gregg and John and everybody else.
I just want to understand with the commentary you gave on the Rewards program.
So I think you're saying that it's skewed to your best guests and the incremental sales mix is generally in line with what you were looking for.
So then if I look at that is the non-REDcard part of your customer base comping even more negatively than we all realized in the non-consumables portion of your mix? And if you could just sort of give us sort of more of a picture of where the shortfall is then in the sort of home and sort of non-food consumable space? Let me address the second set of questions first and we'll come back to the gas price question.
Nothing's changed in our 5% Rewards experience from our initial read of the Kansas City data long ago.
It's driving -- it drove in the quarter a little better than a full point of same-store sales performance.
The combined impact of the low-single-digit basis point change in gross margin rate and the call it 30-ish basis point change in gross margin due to the markdown component of the program is right in line with our expectations right in line with Kansas City.
Nothing's changed yet the program itself is still small enough that it's not masking any kind of underlying changes that are different from what's aggregate and reported.
This is 7% or 8% of our sales with a fairly small change in the aggregate and so it's not changing or masking any underlying trends.
What we're talking about is the underlying trends are the same trends with and without 5% Rewards.
A 7% of sales component of our business can't have that kind of impact to change the underlying dynamics.
Separately on the gas price question.
You have to see the smile in my face.
We've employed MBA summer interns a couple of times to do a pretty careful and rigorous statistical analysis and has come up short of having something that is reliable in a statistically significant sense that I could describe as a correlation.
So I would say that the relationship is logical but is very hard to show on a time series in any kind of proper statistical analysis.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Just first on the CapEx I don't know Doug maybe you can talk about your most updated thoughts on what the CapEx could look like this year? Sounds like you've got some better visibility into what the new store plan will be for next year so that's the first question.
And then the second question related to the inventory levels.
I know at the end of April on your sales call you had said that they're a little bit higher.
It looks like that was the case with the numbers today.
Can you talk about kind of the complexity of that inventory? Your thoughts on markdown risk given it sounds like May is trending a little better? Sure.
First of all on the CapEx front.
3 months ago we said we expected CapEx in our U.S.
Retail segment in 2011 would be about $2.5 billion plus or minus $200 million.
And today that outlook remains intact $2.5 billion plus or minus $200 million in the U.S.
Retail segment.
Kathy do you want to comment on the inventory? Certainly yes.
So overall I think our inventory is in good condition as we enter the second quarter.
We have very strong in-stock levels.
As you mentioned it is up.
Our average inventory per store at costs versus last year is up about 6% and it's really spread across categories so it's not lumpy or things that would worry me in terms of a markdown risk.
So in total I think it's good quality.
Okay that's helpful.
And then one follow-up if I could.
Doug on the D&amp;A it was -- you'd leveraged in the quarter down about 1% year-over-year how should we think about those rates trending over the balance of the year particularly as I think we get towards the back half of the year probably it'd be some Canada stuff that's impacting that? Yes let's stick with the U.S.
Retail segment for a minute and talk about Canada separately.
Over the last 12 months we reinvested capital about in line with our annualized depreciation and amortization expense and that's why year-over-year in dollars there isn't much change.
Certainly one of the underlying factors is that both in the last 12 months and in the prior 12 months there's quite a bit of accelerated depreciation due to our PFresh remodeling program.
You may recall that when we first launched this program we talked about the incremental $100 million or so of accelerated depreciation as we're writing off and replacing store fixtures and other store-based assets before their economic life before their book life is exhausted.
So in both cases maybe 5% of the annual figure is due to this accelerated depreciation phenomenon certainly less than that in the quarter because there is seasonal impact to the accelerated depreciation.
Turning to Canada as we move into the back half of the year we'll have amortization expense associated with the $1 825 000 000 of premium that we're paying to acquire the leases.
And in addition the stores that we intend to occupy for accounting purposes will highly likely be leases capitalized on our financial statements and therefore not only do we end up with amortization expenses of premium but also depreciation expense on the underlying leases.
A combination of those 2 for the year that are already embedded in the comments that I made about Canadian dilution call it maybe $40 million to $50 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Just have 2 questions.
The first one is on the e-commerce business were the investments necessary in the potential top line benefits around the sole ownership and the responsibility for the e-commerce business as that business transitioned? Well we don't disclose the investments that we've made in the technology in this overall re-platforming effort.
I mean it's been quite extensive over a multiyear period because Amazon has been the host for many many years and it's been a very significant undertaking for us it but it's one of the faster-growing parts of our business and we expect it to accelerate beyond even the fast pace that it is today when we launch the site fully later this fall.
And Bob one thing I would add is the Amazon arrangement that we have today is largely a variable arrangement so it doesn't change margin dynamics at meaningfully higher or lower rates of sale.
And by pulling it in house we're essentially investing a generally fixed amount that would create a problem if sales fell and will create a benefit perhaps a very large one if sales were to increase especially if they were to increase a lot.
Okay that's helpful thanks.
And the other question I have is back again on the 5% Reward program.
When you look at the success that you're having with the top customers can you talk about the ability to sort of penetrate the non-top 10% customers and sort of what you think the hurdles are to sort of get even more penetration up for the other customer base? I think you're looking in the wrong place.
Right now the penetration of the top 10% with this program is very very low.
I think the path to prosperity lies in continuing to harvest more and more and more of the top 10%.
I mean bear in mind when we say that the sales lift among this top 10% who take up the card is 40% to 50% it means that if we were successful in putting one of those cards in the hands of every one of our top 10 guests who collectively today represent nearly 1/2 of our sales we'd have a 40% or 50% sales lift on 1/2 of our base.
We'd have an instant overnight 20% or 25% increase in our sales.
The key to prosperity is continuing to market the program to the guests who already have a strong affinity for the brand and have the means and intent to spend a lot more when enabled with this vehicle.
Your final question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Question on the allowance as a percentage of receivables.
When I go back to pre-recession I think you were probably somewhere around 7% not quite at that level but around 7%.
It looks like today you're around 9% and I'm just curious based on what you're seeing and the progress there what you think the likely level could look like at the end of this year? I think that your observation is totally sound and it is within the realm of possibility that our allowance by the end of this year could approach the figure you just discussed.
7% of gross receivables by year end is maybe not the center point of expectations but is clearly within the range of possibilities.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could a follow-up on or a separate question on price increases.
You mentioned that the market was pretty rational in the areas I guess pertaining to cotton or cotton-related type apparel-type products.
I was curious in the case of food what you're seeing in the marketplace as cost of goods rise for certain types of food products? Do you regard the market as being fairly rational? Yes.
We see it rational across-the-board not just cotton or fabric-based products but across food and several other categories where we've seen some increases.
Thanks Dan.
That concludes Target's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation's Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday August 17 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President of Merchandising; and Doug Scovanner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I will provide a high-level summary of our second quarter results and strategic priorities going forward and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally Doug will provide detail on our second quarter financial performance and outlook for the rest of the year.
Following Doug's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and Doug will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
We are very pleased with Target's second quarter financial results which we released earlier this morning.
We earned $1.03 per share in the second quarter up 11.5% over last year's second quarter.
This performance was a result of strong profit generation by our U.S.
businesses which more than offset $0.05 of dilution related to our ongoing investments in Target's Canadian segment.
So far this year earnings per share are up more than 10% overcoming both dilution from Canada and the challenges of a volatile and sluggish economic environment.
As expected the pace of our sales growth accelerated meaningfully in the second quarter.
Across the country every region experienced a healthy increase in comparable store sales.
In total our second quarter same-store sales increase of 3.9% is the strongest performance we've experienced in 4 years and it reflects the continued relevance of our merchandising strategies along with the growing impact of our remodel program and 5% REDcard Rewards.
Our stores and merchandising teams continue to deliver healthy profitability in our U.S.
Retail segment.
Kathy and her team have successfully managed the impact of cost inflation maintaining or improving category gross margin rates while delivering compelling value in the marketplace.
And our stores' teams continue to deliver impressive productivity improvements while delivering great guest service our guests expect.
Our Credit Card team delivered outstanding results once again in the second quarter as disciplined underwriting decisions continued to deliver rapidly improving write-off rates.
This team has done an amazing job managing the portfolio successfully navigating through the economic pressures of the past few years and the regulatory changes that have resulted from them.
Serious economic challenges including inflation persistent unemployment weak housing and financial markets and fiscal crises at every level of government continue to limit consumer confidence and spending.
Though we are not immune to these factors which are beyond our control we remain keenly focused on ways we can create value for our guests and generate profitable sales for Target.
For example we continue to leverage insights gained from our guest research to anticipate our guests' wants and needs and deliver the everyday essentials and exclusive fashion merchandise they expect.
We continue to invest in new technology enabling greater productivity better decision-making and ensuring that our prices remain competitive.
And we continue to create a superior experience for our guests whether they shop in our stores or online.
During the second quarter we completed an unprecedented 180 remodel projects a number that in the past would have taken us approximately 3 years to complete and we expect to deliver approximately 140 more remodels by the end of the third quarter.
These remodel projects continue to perform as expected.
Our guests tell us that they love what we've done to their Target store providing a fresh environment with enhanced visual elements and category transformations across the sales floor.
In addition to telling us that they like their new store guests show us by increasing their visits and spending in remodeled stores.
Beyond the value these remodeled projects bring to our current results they're key to maintaining our relevance and guest loyalty over time.
When our guests choose to shop with us online we want to deliver the same great experience they already enjoy in our stores.
After 2 years of development we're excited about the upcoming launch of the new target.com.
This new site will present clean compelling visual and will be easier to navigate and provide clear and consistent product information with an efficient checkout.
This is a visible step in our ongoing investments in digital commerce enabling Target to provide a seamless multichannel experience.
Both in stores and online guests continue to respond to our 5% REDcard Rewards loyalty initiative.
This program offers compelling value on top of our already low prices leading our better and best guests to deepen their engagement with our brand visiting more often and spending more across all of our categories.
Beyond our remodels REDcard Rewards and our new target.com platform we're also investing in projects that will drive future growth for Target.
With our first City Target openings in 2012 guests in dense urban areas will be able to experience our stores without leaving their downtown neighborhoods.
And in Canada beginning in 2013 we'll bring Target stores to guests who already know and love our brand but for whom a trip to Target has always required international travel.
In both of these projects the team is working to optimize assortments to match trade area preferences and demographics while fitting into smaller stores than we typically operate today.
We expect to apply the insights we gain from these efforts to all of our stores over time.
Of course we also continue to invest in our traditional formats in the U.S.
opening 9 new stores or 7 net of relocations in the second quarter.
We plan to open 6 new locations in the third quarter completing our new store program for 2011.
As I look ahead to the second half of the year I'm confident in our position and the plans we have in place.
Our remodels and 5% REDcard Rewards will continue to drive traffic sales and guest loyalty while new target.com will elevate the online experience.
We've assembled marketing and merchandising plans to drive excitement and provide our guests outstanding value in every season throughout the third and fourth quarters.
And I'm confident that our stores' teams will continue their record of strong performance driving productivity gains while delivering reliability and fast service to our guests.
Without a doubt recent economic and financial market turmoil create additional uncertainty about what lies ahead.
Our teams are vigilant and prepared to address unexpected challenges and opportunities as they arise.
At the same time our teams maintain an appropriate focus on the longer term.
They're working to sell our Credit Card receivables portfolio on appropriate economic turns -- terms.
They're developing next-year remodel program and the launch of City Target.
They're working tirelessly to elevate the multichannel experience for our guests and they're working around the clock to prepare for our Canadian market entry in 2013.
Our teams are aligned in support of our strategy and they have unparalleled energy and passion for our brand.
Every day I'm proud and inspired by their accomplishments.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on second quarter results share recent guest insights and outline initiatives for the second half of the year.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
We're very pleased with both the mix and pace of our second quarter sales.
Within our assortments some categories have been strong all year as guests continue to respond to our traffic-driving strategies and increase their shopping in areas like Grocery Healthcare and Household Essentials.
We've also seen consistent strength in Beauty where guests are responding through our differentiated assortment particularly in our remodeled stores.
More notably in the second quarter was the improvement in sales trends of discretionary categories like Apparel Home and Hardlines.
Each of these areas experienced stronger same-stores sales compared with the first quarter.
In addition sales of weather-related items in every part of the sore accelerated meaningfully in June and July as more seasonable weather patterns emerged across the country.
This improved sales trend created better sell-through in markdown-sensitive categories helping our gross margin for the quarter.
Apparel performed very well in the second quarter led by Performance Active Wear which continues to reflect rapid growth of the C9 by Champion brand.
In addition women's men's and kids apparel each experienced healthy increases.
Last year in kids we took prices down to ensure we continue to offer a compelling value relative to the marketplace creating a temporary headwind in our dollar sales even while unit comps stayed strong.
We believe these investments in price paid off as we've gained market share in this key area and dollar comps are once again increasing.
We continue to see steady improvement in our sales trends in Home.
Second quarter sales in every area of Home were stronger than the first quarter with Housewares continuing to lead the way.
Seasonal sales have been another bright spot and we're pleased with early reads on Back-to-School supplies.
In Hardlines the most notable change has occurred in Electronics.
Tablet sales led by iPad have been quite strong.
And after some very challenging trends in earlier quarters we're beginning to see stability and even some growth in TV sales.
As we've continued to study consumer shopping patterns we're seeing clear contrasts between higher income consumers and more moderate income households.
While optimism at all income levels has improved since the recession wealthy households continue to be the most optimistic.
Across all of Retail the 20% of households with the highest incomes are shopping more often and spending more while the other 80% have been cutting trips and spending less.
Some of these trends are visible in our own results.
We continue to drive meaningful traffic increases from a set of core guests with our remodels and 5% REDcard Rewards loyalty program overcoming what otherwise would be a challenging traffic trend as moderate-income guests cut back on their trips.
As I look ahead to the second half of the year I'm pleased with the momentum we've built in the spring and I'm excited about our plans for the fall.
We've always placed a high priority on driving trips and market share around seasonal events and this year is no different.
We feel great about our plans to create value and drive excitement for Back-to-School Back-to-College Halloween and the fourth quarter holiday season.
As Gregg mentioned our buying teams did a great job addressing cost inflation across multiple categories this spring preserving category gross margin rates while maintaining our competitive position in the marketplace.
I'm confident that these efforts will continue to pay dividends in the fall.
We continue to believe that inflation will peak in the third quarter with year-over-year cost increases beginning to moderate in the fourth quarter.
In Home we've been listening to our guests learning that they'd rather shop our domestics area by category like sheets or blankets rather than shopping by brand.
While our guests still respond to our individual brands they don't hesitate to mix and match between them and they want us to make it easy for them to see everything that's available without shopping multiple aisles.
With our September transition we are going to do just that create more dominant category presentations of items like sheets comforters and blankets that will show the depth of our assortment.
We're also rolling out improved signing to help guests navigate the department and we'll continue to leverage our focal fixtures to feature individual brands and ensembles.
Across the store we're focused on driving differentiation and value supporting both sides of our Expect More Pay Less brand promise.
For example in Apparel we're excited to be the exclusive U.S.
retailer for Levi's dENiZEN jeans for the entire family which set a few weeks ago.
Priced to complement our established denim assortments dENiZEN features sizes and fits that make it possible for all guests to find the right jeans.
Our exclusive Vintage Varsity line takes inspiration from the Hamilton Wood Type and Printing Museum which is located in a small Wisconsin town.
The unique style of this artform translates to great design in a collection that includes everything guests will love for Back-to-School from T-shirts to leggings to tote bags.
Early results from this program has surpassed our expectations.
In Music we continue to partner with some of the biggest names in the business to offer exclusives to our guests.
This summer we partnered with Grammy Award-winning artist Beyoncé Knowles for the exclusive Deluxe Edition of her fourth solo album 4.
The Target deluxe album features 3 new songs as well as 3 additional dance remixes and DVD footage all of which is exclusive to Target.
Sales of this album have exceeded our plans earning Target a very high market share for this release.
This year we've already raised the bar with our designer partnerships offering guests stunning and affordable limited-time assortments with high-caliber designers like Calypso St.
Barth.
And the momentum only gets stronger as we enter the back half of the year.
We'll introduce our first-ever designer partnership in lingerie and loungewear at the end of October.
Josie Natori is an internationally known designer whose work incorporates a signature East meets West aesthetic.
Her collection for Target will feature a full range of great options in bold Asian-inspired prints.
Also in late October we'll offer a line of decorative hats by Albertus Swanepoel the South African-born milliner known for his handmade headwear.
This limited-edition collection of unique and affordable decorative hats will be available both in store and online.
L.A.-based designer Dana Kellin known for her delicate wire wrapping and elegant stone combinations has created an exclusive and affordable limited-edition collection of necklaces and earrings for Target starting this fall.
Style icon Gwen Stefani is lending some of her own fashion credibility to our youngest guests.
Starting in November Harajuku Mini for Target a spin on Gwen's adult line will feature fashion for infants to tweens and will be priced starting at just $3.99.
If we predict sales based off of social media chatter alone we expect this collection to fly off the shelves as it's already been extremely popular on Facebook and a top-trending search topic on Yahoo! and Google.
Finally our highly anticipated Missoni collection hits stores next month.
Since 1953 the Missoni family has been known worldwide for its mix-and-match patterns bright colors and unique textures.
Target's partnership collection with this high-end designer is our biggest to-date with more than 400 items spanning multiple product categories including Home Baby Beauty and Apparel for women men and kids.
While our guests continue to shop cautiously and focus on value they want us to continue to surprise them and offer them opportunities to indulge in smart ways.
That's the essence of our Expect More Pay Less brand promise.
By listening to our guests and offering both value and fashion low prices and a great guest experience we earn their trust and loyalty driving our performance both today and over time.
Now Doug will cover second quarter financial performance and provide details on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Doug? Thanks Kathy.
This morning I'll provide additional detail on Target's second quarter results and provide more detail surrounding the third quarter and full year EPS guidance we disclosed earlier today.
In addition I'll bring you up-to-date on the progress we continue to make toward our significant Canadian market entry in 2013 and our progress toward a sale of our accounts receivable.
In our last quarterly call I described the 3 things that would need to happen for us to achieve or exceed the then-current EPS consensus estimate of $1 for the second quarter.
At that time I characterized second quarter EPS of $1 as achievable but above the midpoint of a reasonable range of expectations.
Specifically I said that to meet or exceed $1 we would need to enjoy a meaningful acceleration in the pace of our same-store sales growth from our first quarter experience and we would need to sustain a healthy U.S.
Retail segment EBITDA margin rate of 10% or more and we would need to again deliver pretax ROIC of 20% or more in our Credit Card segment.
I'm delighted to report that our actual second quarter results met or exceeded each of these 3 performance benchmarks.
And as a direct result we delivered EPS of $1.03 representing 11.5% growth from last year's record $0.92.
This rate of growth in our consolidated results was even more impressive given that it was net of about $0.05 of EPS dilution from the results of our Canadian business segment in line with our expectations.
In our U.S.
Retail segment our pace of comparable store sales growth rose to 3.9% compared with our first quarter growth of 2.0%.
In this segment our second quarter EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were 10.3% and 7.2% respectively.
Similarly year-to-date these rates were 10.2% and 7.0% in line with the annualized rates we strive to meet or exceed over time.
Our U.S.
Retail segment gross margin rate declined 35 basis points in the quarter reflecting an adverse sales mix impact slightly higher than 35 basis points partially offset by slight improvement in our gross margin rate within merchandise categories.
In summary I'd characterize these overall mix and rate changes as largely the direct result of our 2 core sales-driving strategies partially offset by some unrelated strength in underlying gross margin rate within merchandise categories.
Once again our teams exhibited excellent expense discipline in the quarter.
In particular we enjoyed favorable leverage on store hourly payroll expense which is our single largest expense driver that we control in the short run.
And yet again we benefited from the year-over-year impact of the Credit Card profit-sharing arrangement between our 2 segments -- between our 2 U.S.
segments.
These 2 favorable items were partially offset by a number of smaller unrelated matters.
In the translation of EBITDA to EBIT we also enjoyed 14 basis points of favorable leverage of depreciation and amortization expense directionally a trend that we expect to continue to enjoy for a while.
In our U.S.
Credit Card segment second quarter profit performance was once again both outstanding and ahead of our expectations as we continue to benefit from rapid improvement in all key measures of risk.
Segment profit was $171 million in the second quarter up from $149 million last year.
Measured against the capital Target has invested in this segment we delivered an annualized pretax return of just over 28% ahead of the very strong 20% we enjoyed in the second quarter last year.
Very strong underlying performance in this segment is being augmented in the short term by substantial allowance reductions that will likely normalize sometime later this year or in 2012 meaning that the currently supercharged level of profitability derived from our receivables is likely to moderate somewhat in the near future regardless of who owns the receivables at that time.
Our Canadian segment recorded $25 million of startup expenses and $11 million of depreciation and amortization expenses in the quarter.
Outside of this segment we also recorded about $10 million of interest expense related to capitalized Canadian leases which Target assumed during the quarter.
These 3 categories of expense combined to contribute to the $0.05 of EPS dilution I referenced earlier.
Our balance sheet at the end of the quarter reflected about $2.4 billion of net property related to the Canadian store sites we selected in May consisting of a combination of the allocated portion of the value to be paid to Zellers for the 105 leases we selected and the period-end capitalized value of the obligations we owe to landlords under the leases themselves.
Turning now to share repurchase.
We invested almost $700 million on this activity in the second quarter bringing our year-to-date total to about $1.5 billion already touching the low end of the annual range of $1.5 billion to $2 billion we laid out 6 months ago.
To reiterate this range of 2011 annual expectations is before the additional share repurchase activity that would likely result from a sale if consummated of our receivables.
This latter activity would in essence represent application of the Target Corporation equity capital freed up in such a transaction.
And we believe this repurchase activity would potentially offset the majority of ongoing EPS dilution from such a sale.
Again we plan to quantify all related EPS effects if and when we announce a sale although we continue to expect that the ongoing dilution is not likely to be substantial.
In summary we believe that our shares currently represent an exceptional value in light of our U.S.
and Canadian prospects in both the intermediate term and long term and we intend to continue to pursue the opportunity to selectively retire our shares on behalf of our shareholders.
I plan to elaborate on this topic when we meet with you tomorrow in New York.
Let's now turn to our progress in the 2 strategically important transactions we're pursuing.
As you know in May we named the locations of the first 105 sites related to leases we assumed in our Zellers transaction.
And in June we announced that we had reached an agreement to transfer up to 39 leases for additional Zellers sites to Walmart Canada.
We continue to work with landlords and third-party retailers on the remaining leases to optimize our economic and strategic outcome.
We had originally forecast that we would likely end up with 100 to 150 Target stores flowing directly from this investment.
And as of today we can tighten this to a more likely range a most likely range of 125 to 135 Target stores including substantially all of the top 100 sites which drive the vast majority of our expected return on this invested capital.
Separately our discussions with potential buyers of our Credit Card receivables also continue to progress as we hoped and expected.
The level of mutual interest between Target and potential buyers has met or exceeded the expectations that we had when we began this process.
In summary we continue to believe a transaction which meets our objectives and those of a potential buyer could close later this year or early next year.
At the moment recent turmoil in global capital markets does not appear to have changed this view.
We'll of course keep you up-to-date over time as appropriate.
Now let's turn to our outlook for the remainder of the year which we clarified in EPS terms in our press release earlier today.
Needless to say the pace of same-store sales growth remains the most important variable in determining our actual EPS results in the fall season.
In essence we'll likely produce results at or above the midpoint of our disclosed ranges if our pace of sales in the third and fourth quarters meets or exceeds our second quarter growth in same-store sales of 3.9%.
In other words if there turns out to be little or no measurable effect on our growth related to the factors causing so much recent uncertainty and turmoil in the global capital markets.
Alternatively if our fall sales growth were to fall short of our second quarter experience we'll likely produce results below the midpoint of these EPS ranges.
For whatever it's worth our pace of sales growth month-to-date in August is within the range of our expectations for the month although slightly below our June July experience.
Importantly given that our guests continue to buy closer to the moment of need the next 2 weeks will represent the heart of our Back-to-School and Back-to-College sales.
As a result we think it's too early to judge our overall sales growth in August.
Even though a significant portion of our year-to-date consolidated EPS growth has resulted directly and indirectly from the exceptional performance of our U.S.
Credit Card segment the majority of our planned fall season consolidated EPS growth will flow from the growth of our U.S.
Retail segment EBITDA and EBIT resulting directly from the results of our integrated sales-driving strategies.
Contained within our consolidated EPS guidance is an outlook for our Canadian segment for this year consistent with the previously disclosed range of $0.16 to $0.20 of dilution.
Our consolidated EPS outlook of $0.70 to $0.75 in the third quarter and $4.15 to $4.30 for the full year means that our 2011 outlook has changed very little from the guidance we provided 6 months ago as the unanticipated strength in our U.S.
Credit Card segment will likely offset incremental Canadian dilution that wasn't in our forecast at the beginning of the year.
Of course this outlook excludes the impacts of a potential Credit Card asset sale in the fourth quarter impacts we would outline in detail if we were to reach such a sale agreement.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
As I mentioned earlier we're very pleased with our financial performance in the first half of 2011 and we're planning on delivering strong results in the fall season.
We believe that a focus on both sides of our Expect More Pay Less brand promise will prepare Target to perform well in a variety of economic environments.
One final note.
At tomorrow's financial community meeting in New York we'll extend our outlook beyond 2011 outlining our strategic initiatives while providing additional detail on our longer long-term financial goals.
For those of you unable to attend we'll webcast both the remarks and visuals live.
That concludes today's prepared remarks.
Now Doug Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Kathy just a couple of questions for you or you and Gregg.
In terms of the upcoming holiday season could you talk more specifically about opportunities that you see for share gains? Given last year's performance I know December as a month was slower in total retail sales for the industry.
But I think a couple of categories Toys and Electronics were particularly challenging.
Can you talk about opportunities you have there? And then just generally speaking how has your competitive analysis changed if at all in the last few years in terms of how you're viewing competitors in each of these key categories? Yes I'll start Jeff with your first question about the holiday opportunity.
And we do think that we have a lot of opportunity in the fourth quarter in a variety of categories.
One I would say certainly Toys which started off the holiday season very strong but ended weak I think we've got some opportunity particularly in the month of December.
And we've looked at our guests' buying patterns actually on a weekly basis throughout the holiday season to make sure that we're tailoring our assortment and our promotions with their mindset during each week of the holiday season so I feel great about that category.
Electronics was also challenging but I do think some of the trends that you've seen building this spring with the iPad for example or e-readers I think that those will bode well for the back half of the year.
And we overindex with products like that.
That's prime territory for our guests.
I also think that our Apparel business has been gaining strength and I think that bodes well for the holiday season as well as a lot of the gift categories in Home.
So we've talked about the improvement there really being led by Housewares.
And I see that helping us as we move into the fourth quarter.
In terms of our competitive analysis I don't know that that's changed.
We continue to look at the same people a wide variety of competitors.
But I guess I would tell you that we're really focused on our game making sure we understand our guests and how our products fit with their needs so we haven't really changed how we look at competitors.
The only other thing that I would add Jeff is because we're -- we have high expectations for our online business now that we're converting to our own platform we've been focusing more attention on other online retailers and we've added them to the mix to make sure that we really understand the breadth and the depth of those competitive retailers.
So that's really the only meaningful change that I would say we've made over the last 6 months.
Okay.
Just one other -- one other clarification just on mid-year cost of goods inflation.
You see some mitigation of that inflation in the fourth quarter.
Is that across categories? Is that Apparel specifically? I would say it's fabric-related so Apparel and soft Home predominantly.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Just a quick question Doug on the U.S.
Retail SG&amp;A.
I know you did lever -- the growth rate did pick up though from the first quarter.
Can you talk about maybe how you see that trending in the back half of the year assuming let's call it a 4% comp environment? 4% comp environment in the back half of the year we would expect to continue to favorably leverage SG&amp;A expense in each of the 2 quarters.
Okay.
And was there anything in this quarter that was maybe one-time or transitory in terms of the costs or no? Certainly and I would say that that's usually the case plus or minus in every quarter.
But net-net I outlined the big issues that were isolated.
Specifically we continue to do favorably leverage store hourly payroll which is obviously a wonderful thing to be able to do and I think a reasonable leading indicator of what to expect in the fall season as well.
Separately as you know there's a profit-sharing arrangement between our 2 segments and some of the excess profitability of the Credit Card segment serves to reduce SG&amp;A expense as a percent of sales in our Retail segment in a manner consistent with what you've seen many other retailers describe here in the quarter as well.
That's helpful.
And then one quick follow-up over to the Credit segment.
Obviously the profit is growing nicely.
You talked about how that would slow.
As we look through the balance of the year I mean is it reasonable to assume that credit profits still grow year-over-year? Or could we be in a situation by the fourth quarter where perhaps credit segment profits are actually down year-over-year? Certainly as I said in my earlier remarks we expect the rate of growth to slow considerably sometime later this year or early next year as we normalize write-off in allowance relationships.
Could it happen by the fourth quarter? Yes.
The wildcard question you're really asking is what -- in my terms what will the annualized write-off rate turn out to be when we settle into a new pattern? It's been dropping rapidly for well over a year.
In the quarter just ended for example our write-off rate was 6.5% of receivables almost half of what the write-off rate was.
Last year in the same quarter it was over 12%.
So we ended the quarter with an allowance of $480 million that's 7.7% of gross receivables of $6.2 billion.
The real question is will the write-off rate settle in at 6%-ish? In which case it will happen fairly soon things will normalize by the fourth quarter and the dynamics you outlined would come into play given the lower level of gross receivables that we're carrying now compared to last year.
Alternatively if it settles in at more like a 4.5% or 5% write-off rate then we'd have several more quarters of this kind of benefit.
It's too early to tell what that timing will be.
But certainly no later than sometime in 2012 we'll settle into a more normalized pattern with a more typical amount of bad debt expense in our Credit Card business segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Doug I guess the first question I have is given you talked about a lot of the uncertainty from the last couple of weeks the forecast that you've given us today sort of third quarter and fourth quarter have you made any sort of changes to those over the last few weeks in light of what's happening out there right now? No we certainly don't react like that in the short run yet I would step back and acknowledge that if we were to expand the list of things that have gone our way and things that have gone against us so far this year that allow us to still be in the same position with the same earnings outlook we outlined 6 months ago in my remarks I mentioned on the positive side the exceptional strength of our Credit Card business segment.
Certainly a secondary issue on that list would be that the exceptional cash flow from operations partly driven by profitability in the Card segment and reduced receivables has allowed us to pick up the pace of share repurchases and get much farther much faster than we expected.
That clearly has a beneficial effect on this year's earnings per share as well.
On the negative side I mentioned that our Canadian dilution now same as it was in our disclosures 90 days ago is higher than we outlined at the beginning of the year due to a variety of factors some of them very powerful positives in the long run.
In addition obviously our U.S.
sales have been softer than we outlined at the beginning of the year.
But that's not a change that's occurred here the last couple of weeks.
We expected sales to be stronger as the year progressed.
We did not expect the first quarter to be as soft as it was.
On an absolute sense certainly our sales aren't likely to be as strong in the third and fourth quarters as we might have thought 6 months ago but that view hasn't changed in the last few weeks.
Okay.
And then I think Kathy said "pleased" with the early reads on Back-to-School supplies.
Have there been any surprises thus far either competitively or within your stores on the trends in Back-to-School? I don't think there have been many surprises.
I would say guests continue to shop.
Some of them are very planful and they shop early.
The majority of guests though continue to buy close to need.
So we still have a ways to go here before the exact results of Back-to-School Back-to-College.
But I would tell you that the early shopping results from Back-to-School supplies was very strong and we saw guests trading into better product which we were pleased with.
I guess the only thing I would say is that I do think the competitive environment has been a little bit more reasonable this year in Back-to-School supplies.
And so again we've got the bulk of the season ahead of us.
We'll see how that progresses but so far so good.
Great.
And then my last question is Kathy could you give us AUR maybe in the first half on Home and Apparel and your expectations for AUR in those categories for the second half of the year? Well I would tell you obviously they're both up in the first half.
As we talked about previously we were looking at low- to mid-single-digit in Apparel and some mid-digits in Home.
As we progress into the third quarter we're going to see double-digit in both Home and Apparel.
Most of that is hitting in Apparel here in August and September.
So there's increase not so much in prices on particular items but more items increase as we move into the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask how much of the sales mix right now is the food and consumables? And how far through the remodel campaign are you on PFresh? Food and consumables represents midway point between 15% and 20% of our sales.
By the end of this year we will have completed approximately 900 out of the say 1 400 or 1 500 stores general merchandise stores that we're going to be PFresh-ing.
So that's 60% 65% by the end of the year.
Okay.
And then your tax rate was a little lower this quarter.
Is that a factor caused by Canada? And should we expect a lower tax rate over time because of Canada? And maybe just an outlook from Doug on the tax rate for this year and next year.
Well as we disclosed 90 days ago we expected a tax rate between 36% and 37% for the year and it came in at 36.4% for the quarter right on the midpoint of our range of expectation.
So lower is lower than last year but not lower than expectations.
And it's driven by all kinds of factors.
Canada perversely actually drives it higher in the short run because Canada has a lower tax rate.
And a lower tax rate during a period of losses in Canada actually increases not decreases our consolidated tax rate.
This will be an enormous benefit over time when Canada turns the corner.
But in the short run it's a drag.
The next question comes from the line of Robby Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of quick questions.
One of them I guess is for you Doug.
Just quickly the remodels the 180 were they significantly disruptive to the comps during the quarter? And if so can you give us any quantification on that? And then I have a few other follow-up questions.
No more disruptive than they've been recently.
We've been working super hard to minimize the disruptive impact to the extent that we can.
So it's a few tenths but it's not any different from other quarters in which we've had this degree of disruption in the last year 1.5 years.
Got it.
And then the other question I had for either Gregg or Kathy in your comp composition the selling price per unit was up for the first time in I think over 2 years.
I think when you were answering Bob Drbul's question you talked about more price increases coming through.
Can you sort of paint a picture for us? And I think you also mentioned trade-up a little of a trade-up you're seeing now Kathy.
Can you paint of a picture of what -- can that selling price per unit keep accelerating? Is it mix driving that or price increases coming through? Do you think you are now finally seeing some of that trade-up we've all been waiting for? Yes that's hard to give you an exact number although I would tell you I think what you've seen so far is predominantly price increases and some trade-up.
The trade-up we're seeing in very specific categories as I've outlined in the past.
In Home in particular our good segment has been the strongest.
But we've also had some great strengths in the best segment.
So when that 20% of guests that I talked about that are in the higher-income levels they're willing to spend more.
And in areas like Home where we have high-end products like Fieldcrest Luxury and Smith &amp; Hawken we are seeing them trade up.
And in fashion I will tell you where we have increased the retails and added more into the make of the garment we're seeing those perform better.
So I believe we're seeing some slight trade-up but mostly so far I think what we've seen is a price increase.
Analysis of average unit retails in a business with a breadth of assortment that we have is a supremely complex exercise.
I'll take food for an example in the quarter just ended.
There clearly was some inflation in our average driving average unit retails higher in our food assortments yet our food category grew much faster than the rest of the business.
And food retails on average are quite a bit lower per unit than retails in the rest of the store.
So even analyzing food for a moment has 2 competing and quite substantial factors that partially offset each other.
This is a really really complex analysis given the breadth of our assortments.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Two questions.
First Doug quickly on the CapEx.
I assume that number the $1.7 billion in the quarter included the Zellers -- the payment for Zellers the first one? Yes.
And for the full year is the CapEx x those payments where you expect it to be around the $2.5 billion still? Yes.
Perfect.
And then Kathy maybe to follow up on something you said about the future on assortment.
The changes you're making to bring sheets and other things together is that just reordering things in the store? Or are we actually changing the SKU counts and buying different things as part of that? I would tell you that the change that will start to happen in September there's some product changes.
Most of it is merchandising putting components together.
So in the past we would've had collection bedding that would've been merchandised by brand.
So for example Fieldcrest Luxury would have had a run that would have sheets blankets duvets all mixed in together.
And starting in September we're going to break that apart so that all components will be together.
So all sheets will be together all duvets together all blankets together.
Of course we always have product updates with every transition so you will see some of that.
But I believe from a guest perspective the most notable change will be how it's merchandised.
Great.
And then lastly if we look at the inventory up just over 4%.
Maybe it's a follow-on from the AUR discussion.
How much of that 4% increase would you say is attributable to the higher prices or inflation of what you're buying? We honestly can't answer that question.
I could speculate but there's so much in the way of dynamics in that figure that it's not possible for us to know that.
We analyze inflation at a fairly precise level or as precisely as we can analyze it once a year and that's as of October 31.
The next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
You mentioned that the pace of same-store sales was obviously key.
I'm wondering Gregg when you step back and you look at comps have accelerated from Q1 to Q2 obviously the weather was much more accommodating.
That helped.
But it seems as if discretionary categories started to improve.
Are we finally starting to see customers cross the aisle as we had hoped? Well I mean they never abandoned the other side of the aisle.
They're just slightly more confident in the second quarter than they were in the first quarter.
I mean we've laid out the case as Doug mentioned earlier that we expected our same-store sales to accelerate throughout the course of the year.
There's still pressure on the discretionary categories.
But I think over time if we offer the right items at the right price and we're offering value and our merchants do a great job like they have been in terms of merchandising within the discretionary category we'll continue to gain share and that side of the business will strengthen.
We saw some of that in the second quarter and we expect that to continue as we go forward.
Great.
And then maybe you had talked about in the remodels you're seeing higher visits.
Maybe shed some light in terms of what you're seeing between the categories the discretionary and more staple side of the store what you're seeing in the remodels.
Yes I mean the pattern hasn't really changed materially from what we've been experiencing over the last 2 years.
We get in immediately -- immediate large bump in our food business and related crossover categories and we get a very slight increase in nondiscretionary.
And over time we expect to convert more of that traffic to the nondiscretionary -- or to the discretionary side of the business.
But that's a long-term objective of ours.
So out-of-the-box it's primarily food it's health and beauty aids it's household chemicals papers and those kind of related categories.
And it's really about engaging the guests getting her more comfortable shopping our stores more often building loyalty and trust on the need side of the business on the frequency side of the business and then we will continue to market to her all the other great things that we have throughout the store.
So the food is a planned trip and then the less-planned trips she will experiment and she will spend more time on the other side of the store as we begin to market those categories more aggressively to her via direct mail receipt tape marketing and some of the other alternatives that we have.
Okay great.
And then maybe just shifting to the gross margin outlook in the back half.
As you have seen some improvement in the discretionary category performance and you've obviously got some exciting launches coming in the back half how do you think about the mix shift as we head into the back half if in fact discretionary perhaps starts to improve and you're lapping some easier comparisons from a year ago on the gross margin line? There will be some shifts.
I think they will be fairly subtle over time.
Certainly as a broad theme we would continue to expect year-over-year adverse mix Q3 Q4 in terms of the impact on gross margin rate just as we've experienced for quite some time both as a result of our sales-driving strategies and as a result of what typically happens with the passage of time here regardless of those 2 strategies.
Separately I would expect to continue to leverage operating expenses and continue to enjoy the benefits of favorable leverage in depreciation and amortization expense.
Net-net we said 6 months ago that we expect those very factors to generally offset within our Retail segment for the year delivering EBIT margin rates in line with 2010 experience and that remains our outlook today.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
A few questions.
You talked about on the call that the 20% highest income is really driving the growth.
Is there any change in your thought process as regards to merchandising or marketing as a result of that? First of all Deb what I was talking about is that that's sort of an industry number that we're seeing -- that that's the group that's shopping taking more trips and being more confident.
At Target what we're seeing is a pattern of more trips through all of our guest segments.
Clearly it's stronger in that upper income but we're seeing it in every income level.
So we do believe that we are gaining some of the trip consolidation that's happening.
As guests are trying to save money on gas and taking fewer trips they are choosing Target as a one-stop shop and so we think we're benefiting across all income levels.
And then Doug what do you think is the most important variable for your same-store sales growth? Consumer confidence and GDP and employment all wrapped into one set of related macroeconomic statistics.
Okay.
And then last question as we look at your core comp how should we think about the contribution from PFresh and 5% Rewards for the quarter? Well certainly it's getting harder and harder to give you a reliable numerical answer to that question because so much of our chain -- and not any random portion of the chain by the way has been converted to PFresh.
And separately with the whole country under a 5% Rewards loyalty program we don't have any base stores to compare the incremental performance.
But keying off of the outlook that we gave at the beginning of the year we can certainly make a broad statement.
We said then that we expected PFresh as the year progressed to deliver somewhat more than 1 point of same-store sales performance.
We said that later in the year we expected 5% Rewards to grow to more than 2 points of contribution.
So haircutting those themes a little bit for Q2 any way you slice it the contribution of those strategies clearly was less than the overall comp of nearly 4% whether the base in isolation in that sense was 0.5 1 point 1.5 point becomes kind of academic in its exercise.
But clearly in that kind of analytical workup it would be positive no matter how you slice the numbers.
You're really definitely seeing some underlying strength in your base comp? No.
As you're defining the base comp certainly that was the case for the quarter yes.
Yes.
I think what we're saying Deb is going forward PFresh 5% Rewards that is so integrated into our strategy that is really our base comp going forward.
There really isn't a core base remaining group anymore because we've got 5% everywhere.
There are no control stores.
We have by the end of the third quarter PFresh-ed over 900 stores.
There aren't good comparisons.
We've done the best stores best market.
And so that really becomes the great one-two punch and it's integrated.
That really is the base business of Target going forward is it's the combination of those 2 elements that represents our base and our core.
Your next question comes from the line of Wayne Hood with BMO Capital.
Yes just on that topic of PFresh and so on.
Gregg as you think about the stores that are left to do and what you have going on in Canada would it be a fair assumption that we should be thinking about PFresh really getting scaled back in '12 just so you can manage all the things that have been going on? Or are you going to continue to try to finish up the remaining group? We have a plan for 2012 and 2013.
We have planned for -- we haven't released the number next year but we really believe that this is the right strategy.
It has delivered great results.
And so we are planning to continue with PFresh in 2012 and 2013 completing the chain.
These are going to be fill-back stores in existing markets because there aren't any markets that we haven't already initiated this change.
But this is core part of the strategy.
And regardless of what's going on in Target Canada we're going to continue and get through the balance of the chain over the next 2 years -- or 90-plus percent of the chain.
Okay.
And then Doug just had one question for you.
Coming back to the net write-off where you were talking about earlier in the portfolio that's also a function of growth in receivables.
And it looked like the growth in average receivables the decline was not maybe as bad as the first quarter.
So I guess as you think about the back half of the year it still declines but can you put some parameters around the rate of decline? And if that starts to grow again obviously that's going to drive that write-off rate even down more.
Yes certainly.
What's going on in terms of gross receivables is right in line with the expectations that we previously laid out specifically that we expect gross receivables to be fairly steady sequentially in the range of $6 billion $6.2 billion in the quarter just ended.
There will be versions of that theme moving forward.
Against the year or against prior year actuals it means the rate of decline will continue to be lower and lower.
Your final question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Your main competitor has talked about price investment a lot in the past.
And what they've said and done are sometimes different.
But with that said the language that they're using more recently seems to be stronger.
And I'm curious if we do see more price investment from them would you use the 5%-off program as sort of a catchall to match them or essentially match them? Or would you be more compelled to match them on the item itself? Our goal Dan is to be competitive with the value as well as the retail on all items.
And our 5% REDcard Rewards is a loyalty program for the guests that have a credit or debit card.
So in merchandising we watch competitors very closely for their content the quality what's built into it and of course the retail.
And we will be competitive.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I don't know if I missed this.
Did you give your best estimate on what inflation contributed to the overall sales growth? No we did not.
I'm not sure that any retailer has the IT capabilities to give you a reliable figure on that.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then my final question if I could.
The mix shift -- or the mix impact I should say was pretty impressive I'd say less than we would have expected and you had some offsets in the gross margin that helped that along.
As we think about it going forward in a sort of a simplistic way I realize but can you give us sort of a rough idea of what you would think the sort of the base case would be for the mix shift? Is it 20-20-20 type impact from the core shift that we've normally seen and then 20 basis points each for the 5% and PFresh? Or is that too simplistic? No let me clarify.
Let's go back to what I said in my remarks to understand the base case.
When I talked about the impact on gross margin rate of mix and of rate within categories the overall gross margin rate decline is 35 basis points.
And I said that the mix impact was somewhat larger than that slightly larger than that.
And it was offset by rate within categories and broadly the 2 strategies combined drove most of that.
Additionally beyond the effect of the 2 strategies there was some rate benefit within categories.
So what does that mean? It means moving forward we expect to continue to see some adverse mix due to those core integrated strategies and there was some background adverse mix even before those strategies came along.
But the mix impact is a PFresh impact not by and large a 5% Rewards impact.
So it isn't 20-20-20 even if you change different numbers.
5% Rewards has virtually no impact tiny impact on our consolidated mix statistics.
So net-net I would expect to continue to have adverse mix impacts partially offset by these rate effects driven in large part by our integrated sales growth strategies.
I would expect variations on the theme of the second quarter to be playing through our numbers for a long time to come.
Okay.
Well that concludes Target's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation and we'll see most or all of you tomorrow in New York.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation’s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday November 16 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President Merchandising; and Doug Scovanner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I'll provide a high-level summary of our third quarter results and strategic priorities going forward and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally Doug will provide detail on our third quarter financial performance and outlook for the rest of the year.
Following Doug's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and Doug will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
We're very pleased with Target's third quarter financial results which we released earlier this morning.
We earned $0.82 per share in the third quarter up more than 10% over last year's third quarter.
This increase is particularly noteworthy because we're cycling an unusually low income tax rate in the third quarter of 2010 and this year's results includes $0.05 of dilution from our Canadian market investments.
Adjusted for these 2 items our EPS increased 28% over last year.
Our comparable store sales increased 4.3% in the quarter reflecting our strongest quarterly performance since the second quarter of 2007.
This year's performance reflects the strength of our core Retail business including the benefits of our remodel program and 5% REDcard Rewards which are combining to drive meaningful sales momentum in an environment where many consumers are cutting trips and spending less.
Once again our team did an outstanding job of maintaining the profitability of our Retail sales.
Our merchant teams successfully managed gross margin rate within categories creating an offset to most of the gross margin rate dilution we are experiencing as a result of our sales driving initiatives.
And our store's team delivered another quarter of meaningful productivity improvement contributing expense leverage while delivering great guest service.
And finally again this quarter we continued to benefit from the outstanding performance of our Credit Card portfolio as our financial services team delivered strong segment profit performance overcoming the continued decline in the size of the portfolio.
I want to thank the entire Target team for their commitment to our brand and the energy they bring to work every day.
Target's strong performance is the result of their innovative spirit and relentless focus on serving our guests.
Like many of you we've been disappointed by the absence of any meaningful improvement in the economy so far this year as the most recent U.S.
unemployment rate of 9% was unchanged from last January.
Until the U.S.
begins to see robust improvement in jobs and signs of recovery in the housing market we believe consumer spending will likely continue to be soft and uneven requiring retailers to carefully manage their expenses while finding innovative ways to drive profitable sales and market share.
Within this climate we're pleased that through the first 3 quarters of 2011 we've grown comparable store sales more than 3% while enjoying more than 10% growth in earnings per share even while performing a record number of remodels moving www.target.com onto our own platform preparing to open our first City Target stores in 2012 and investing in our 2013 Canadian market entry strategy.
In the third quarter we opened 6 new stores completing our 2011 new store program.
In addition we remodeled another 133 stores in the quarter meaning we now operate 875 general merchandise locations with an expanded food layout including fresh food.
Three years ago this format was only a concept we were testing in 2 Minnesota stores.
And in a very short time frame it has become our core format incorporating a more relevant assortment in a completely transformed environment that's visually compelling and easy to shop.
Late in the quarter we marked our first anniversary of our nationwide launch of 5% REDcard Rewards and this program continues to perform as expected.
We're attracting new credit and debit cardholders who are already among our most loyal guests but for whom the ability to save an additional 5% every day causes them to become even more loyal shopping more often and increasing their spending.
In addition earlier this month we launched our new REDcard free ship program giving our current guests another reason to shop online with us more often this holiday season.
Looking ahead we feel very confident about our holiday season marketing and merchandising plans as Kathy will outline in a few minutes.
We also expect this year's momentum to carry into next year as we continue to develop more ways to drive loyalty and engage with our guests in new ways.
We look forward to launching our City Target concept in 4 major metro areas in 2012 allowing urban guests to shop at a Target in their own neighborhood.
We'll continue to enhance our Web strategy and offerings providing guests a Target brand experience no matter when or how they choose to engage with us.
And teams across the company are preparing to open Target stores in Canada beginning in early 2013 allowing Canadian guests to experience Target without crossing the border into the U.S.
I am endlessly impressed with the energy of our team and the passion they share for our brand.
Our store's teams are excited and ready to handle the holidays with Black Friday only 9 days away and our online business and technology teams are working tirelessly to correct the issues that have arisen with the relaunch of www.target.com.
We know we're not yet providing a consistent experience online and we won't stop until these issues are resolved.
Finally I'd like to comment on our recent announcement of Doug Scovanner's plan to retire as CFO of Target at the end of next March.
Target shareholders have benefited from the outstanding financial performance under Doug's leadership and he's been a valued and trusted colleague for 18 years.
The timetable we laid out in our early November announcement is designed to provide sufficient time to carefully consider internal and external candidates to fill this critical role and to allow sufficient time for Doug and his successor to work together before the end of Doug's tenure as CFO of Target.
Separately before Doug leaves we intend to have some form of announcement regarding our intended sale of our Credit Card receivables.
We continue to believe that the most likely form of such an announcement will be that we've reached an agreement with a buyer on both the terms of such a sale and on the nature of an ongoing arrangement with them as well.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on the second (sic) [third] quarter results share recent guest insights and outline initiatives for the remainder of the year.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
We're very pleased with both the pace and mix of our third quarter sales.
With our remodel program we're becoming an even more trusted destination for our core guests providing everyday needs at great prices along with outstanding value on trend-right content in apparel and home.
Across the chain we've seen consistently strong sales in food beauty healthcare and other household essentials as guests respond to Target's great prices in a unique one-stop shopping environment.
On the more discretionary side of our business we are pleased with our sales momentum in Apparel which was led in the third quarter by a double-digit comp sales increase in Performance Activewear featuring our C9 by Champion brand.
While trends have been slower in Home we've seen steady improvement so far this year as comp sales in this category have strengthened every quarter.
Successful Back-to-School and Back-to-College campaigns drove third quarter performance in Housewares and seasonal categories and we've been encouraged with recent sales spends in bedding following our September reset.
We believe we've positioned our Home category for continued improvement but we expect progress will be slow and uneven in light of continued weakness in jobs and the housing market.
Our third quarter partnership with Missoni generated an amazing amount of buzz and the guests' response on the day of the launch was unprecedented.
Our largest collection to date created a frenzy reminding some of Black Friday as guests formed lines hours before some stores opened.
Most stores sold out quickly in the first few days and replenishment shipments sold out quickly throughout the month.
On www.target.com Missoni demand created online traffic that outpaced any Black Friday or Cyber Monday in our history putting a great deal of stress on our newly launched online platform.
While we didn't anticipate putting our new site through such a dramatic test at such a young age we are quickly moving forward to make improvements applying what we've learned from the experience to implement hundreds of fixes that will elevate the guest experience and enhance stability.
Moving to our own Web platform is part of a larger strategic commitment to enhance Target's multichannel capabilities and we continue to devote significant resources in support of that commitment.
Our guest research continues to reflect the impact of a slow and uneven economic recovery on different income groups.
The highest [audio gap] customers continue to shop more often and spend more at Target and elsewhere while the vast majority of consumers are cutting trips and spending less.
Recently consumer confidence has fallen back to levels observed in 2008 and 2009 and optimism about the future has declined so far this year.
Guests are worried about the economy and focus particularly on jobs the housing market government spending and debt.
Against this backdrop we feel very good about the changes we've implemented to enhance our relevance in this challenging environment.
As we remodel stores we deepen our assortments in frequency categories providing guests more reasons to shop at Target more often.
And we continue to offer outstanding prices every day along with additional opportunities to save including 5% REDcard Rewards Pharmacy Rewards and our new REDcard free ship program.
These efforts are clearly working driving traffic increases in an environment where we'd otherwise expect traffic to decline.
While we expect guests to continue to spend cautiously as we head into the important fourth quarter we're confident we have the marketing and merchandising plans in place to make us the top shopping destination for all our guests' holiday needs.
Target will offer a variety of sale events both online and in stores throughout the season.
As guests gear up for the biggest shopping day of the year we're excited that Target stores will open at midnight on Black Friday 4 hours earlier than last year.
And for the guests who want to get a head start on their holiday shopping we'll again have our 4-day sale leading up to Black Friday.
This Beat The Rush Sale is our biggest circular coupon event of the year and will include items in departments throughout the store.
Following our 2-day sale target.com will have greatly discounted doorbuster deals across all categories on Cyber Monday and deals on thousands more throughout Cyber Week.
Guests will be able to save even more on already discounted prices by using a REDcard.
And as Gregg mentioned guests now receive free shipping on every order from target.com when using a REDcard.
Just like 5% Rewards we've designed this program to be simple.
All target.com purchases using a REDcard ship free with no membership fee and no minimum purchase requirement.
Throughout the season guests in our stores and on target.com will be delighted by our unique merchandise assortments in every department.
Guests can find the perfect toy for everyone on their shopping list in our Target toy catalog.
This year's catalog is 8 pages bigger than last year's and includes 48 coupons offering more than $350 in savings.
To make stocking stuffing easy we'll have the most popular new movies and music including exclusive albums from Beyoncé Michael Bublé and Taylor Swift.
Our Electronics assortment is stocked with all the most coveted tablets cameras and video games.
And in Home we have all the pieces to make decorating and entertaining effortless this season including throw pillows candles and cookware.
We'll build excitement throughout the fourth quarter with headline-worthy designer collaborations.
Earlier this month we launched collections by Josie Natori in lingerie and loungewear Dana Kellin in jewelry and Albertus Swanepoel in hats.
Initial response has been positive and these collections will be available throughout the holiday season.
The first installment of Gwen Stefani's highly anticipated Harajuku Mini for Target collection sat in stores this week.
This exclusive collection starts at just $3.99 and features affordable fashion-forward Apparel &amp; Accessories with a unique design aesthetic for infants toddlers and tweens.
And we'll kick off 2012 with another exciting collaboration.
Target is partnering with celebrated women's wear and accessories designer Jason Wu to create a limited edition collection of women's apparel handbags and scarves.
Jason Wu is one of the most influential designers in the fashion industry today and we are excited to bring guests a collection that embodies his signature style at affordable prices.
The collection will be available in early February 12 2012 at most Target stores and on www.target.com.
In both our merchandising and marketing plans we strive to support both sides of our Expect More.
Pay Less.
brand promise and I'm pleased that these efforts are resonating with our guests.
While we all hope that the economy continues to improve we've developed initiatives that are driving traffic and loyalty today while positioning Target to succeed in a variety of economic conditions.
Now Doug will cover third quarter financial performance and provide details on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Doug? Thanks Kathy.
This morning I'll provide additional detail on Target's third quarter financial performance and provide more color on our outlook for the fourth quarter and beyond.
Our actual EPS of $0.82 reported earlier this morning set a new third quarter record by some measure and as Gregg discussed the adjusted EPS increase attributable to our 2 U.S.
business segments was particularly robust in the quarter.
You'll notice that we included an additional table in our press release schedules this morning in which we reconcile our reported EPS to an adjusted measure that I believe is highly useful in judging the results of our operations.
We'll continue to include this table in the future to provide greater clarity around the impact of unique items that are also large enough to merit discrete analytical consideration.
The 2 matters that met these criteria today were the large and favorable state income tax settlements recorded and disclosed last year and the expenses recorded and disclosed this year related to our Canadian market entry.
In the future this table will include not only additional activity in these 2 categories but also for example any income or expense directly or indirectly related to the intended sale of our accounts receivable if sufficiently large.
As our results unfold over the next several years this table will provide a framework for all of us to use in tracking Target's progress toward achieving $8 or more in EPS by 2017.
In the U.S.
Retail segment we enjoyed a third quarter comparable store sales increase of 4.3% slightly above our second quarter performance and slightly above our expectation going into the quarter.
This comp increase was driven primarily by an increase in average ticket combined with a slight increase in same-store transactions or traffic.
While we don't perform a comprehensive inflation analysis each quarter it's clear that our average ticket currently reflects the impact of significant inflation in Apparel and Soft Home.
As you know we've increased our retail prices in these categories in response to increases in our costs to acquire these goods.
This means our dollar comps in these categories generally reflect fewer units sold at higher retail prices than we'd expect to see in an environment without such cost pressures.
And as we expected our guests have demonstrated a propensity to spend about the same dollar amounts through this period as they otherwise might have essentially managing their household budgets by decreasing the number of units purchased.
U.S.
Retail segment EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were higher than last year and favorable to our expectations going into the quarter.
Our gross margin rate was down less than 20 basis points reflecting about 30 basis points driven by adverse sales mix partially offset by gross margin rate favorability within categories.
Again this quarter we enjoyed very healthy SG&amp;A expense performance in the U.S.
Retail segment as this segment benefited from the profit-sharing arrangement with our Credit Card segment and importantly our store teams led us to yet another year-over-year increase in store hourly labor productivity.
Between the EBITDA and EBIT lines we enjoyed another 20 basis points of favorable depreciation and amortization leverage in the quarter and as we've previously indicated we expect to continue to benefit from a general tailwind of this kind for quite some time to come.
In the U.S.
Credit Card segment we continued to enjoy superstrong profitability again driven by strong underlying performance augmented by substantial reductions in our accounts receivable allowance.
Even with this latter benefit our Credit Card segment profit increased only modestly in the quarter as this quarter represents the first of many to follow in which we'll cycle against very large reserve releases in prior periods.
I'll elaborate on this issue in more detail as I discuss our outlook in a few minutes.
Consistent with our expectations the results of our Canadian segment included $18 million of start-up expenses and $17 million of depreciation and amortization in the third quarter.
In addition about $15 million of third quarter consolidated interest expense recorded outside the segment was attributable to Canadian leases.
Combined with a moderately lower Canadian tax rate in the aggregate these expenses contributed about $0.05 of EPS dilution in the third quarter in line with our guidance of $0.05 to $0.06.
Also in the third quarter we made our final payment to Zellers and we've now disclosed the number and locations of all of the leases we've chosen in this transaction.
In total we exercised our lease options on 189 Zellers locations.
After accounting for lease rights sold or transferred to developers and other retailers we continue to expect to open 125 to 135 of these locations as new Target stores with most stores opening in 2013.
We finalized our purchase accounting in the quarter allocating just over USD $1.6 billion of net lease acquisition premium to the acquired stores.
Separately we've capitalized about $1.3 billion related to the assumption of the underlying leases.
Combined these Canadian investments of $2.9 billion represent the majority of our consolidated year-over-year increase in net property plant and equipment.
We also invested about $226 million in share repurchase this quarter bringing our year-to-date total to about $1.7 billion.
We continue to retire shares under our share repurchase program at a far faster pace than we issue shares under our stock-based compensation plans.
As a result our net shares outstanding at quarter end were 5.2% lower than this time last year.
In light of our realistic growth prospects we believe our shares continue to represent compelling value and as a result we plan to continue to augment our cash dividends by returning cash to shareholders in this manner.
As Gregg mentioned we recently celebrated the first anniversary of our national rollout of 5% REDcard Rewards and our results continue to meet our very high expectations.
In the third quarter REDcard penetration that is the percentage of our sales on REDcards increased 4 full percentage points versus last year with the increase about evenly split between our credit card and debit card core groups.
In the second year of the program we expect to benefit from another meaningful increase in penetration as more and more of our better and best guests ask us to issue these cards and once in wallet use them to shop in our stores and online with sharply higher frequency.
Now let's turn to our expectations for the fourth quarter and beyond.
In our U.S.
Retail segment our outlook envisions fourth quarter same-store sales performance in line with or slightly below that of the last 2 quarters at around 4% or a little less.
We expect our U.S.
Retail segment EBIT margin rate will be quite close to last year's fourth quarter experience driven by a familiar and comfortable recipe modest gross margin rate deterioration fully offset by rate favorability on each of the SG&amp;A and depreciation and amortization expense lines.
In our U.S.
Credit Card segment we expect continued strong performance in the fourth quarter and into 2012.
Realistically though as we cycle against prior-year periods in which our results were greatly enhanced by accounts receivable allowance reductions we are very unlikely to continue to report increases in segment profit.
Premium performance in this segment used to be defined by an annualized pretax ROIC performance in the mid to upper teens and this is the level of performance we believe we're likely to enjoy for the next several quarters and beyond subject only to modest quarterly seasonality.
In our conference call 6 months ago we laid out our expectations for expenses related to our Canadian market entry for the rest of the year.
At that time we discussed our expectation that the full year impact of these expenses would likely equate to $0.16 to $0.20 in EPS terms.
We continue to believe that our annual result will lie in this range more likely toward the upper end driven by somewhat higher fourth quarter expenses and slightly lower expenses year-to-date compared with earlier expectations.
Specifically we now expect the fourth quarter dilution related to our Canadian market entry will be $0.07 to $0.09 per share putting the full year impact at about $0.18 to $0.20 per share.
The current median First Call estimate for Target's fourth quarter EPS is $1.48.
From our perspective this is a reasonable single-point estimate within a range of potential outcomes as evidenced by the range of $1.43 to $1.53 we provided in this morning's press release.
At the midpoint of this range we would earn about $4.32 for the year driven by over $4.50 in the U.S.
Either way you measure it these figures are well above our expectations as we entered the year reinforcing our confidence in the likelihood of generating $8 or more in EPS by 2017 enabling us to pay an annualized dividend per share of $3 or more at that time.
One final clarification.
The guidance I've outlined does not include the benefit of favorable resolution of yet more state income tax matters which we currently estimate will be in the neighborhood of $50 million in the fourth quarter.
Also this guidance does not reflect any potential direct or indirect impacts from a potential Credit Card receivables sale transaction including the potential for extinguishment of the 2008 Chase Card Services transaction which we have the right to prepay in whole on or before January 31st by also paying to Chase what amounts to a may-call premium.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
We're very pleased with our third quarter financial results and we expect our current momentum to carry into the fourth quarter.
Our remodel program and 5% REDcard Rewards are driving profitable sales in an environment where consumers continue to be very cautious.
We expect to continue to benefit from these initiatives in the fourth quarter and into 2012 as we open our first City Target stores and prepare to open Canadian Targets in 2013.
That concludes today's prepared remarks.
Now Doug Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you could give us a little bit of color on what your promotional posture will look like this holiday season versus last year.
Well I'll take that one Dan.
This is Kathy.
The fourth quarter is extremely competitive and so far this year our pricing has been spot on.
We've been really pleased with how competitive our prices have been.
And of course with the 5% Rewards our guests get an even greater deal.
So we believe it will be competitive this year just as it has been in past years and we believe our pricing will measure up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up.
I was curious Doug if you could just give us a little bit of color on how you would expect PFresh and 5% Rewards to contribute now that we're going to the second holiday season with it both from a sales and margin standpoint? Well first with respect to 5% Rewards as you know we piloted this concept in Kansas City for a full year before we rolled it out nationally so Kansas City have to see the twinkle in my eye will always be one year ahead of the rest of the U.S.
In our second year in Kansas City we've had pretty meaningful increase year-over-year not as large as year one but still quite meaningful.
So moving forward for the next 4 quarters still expect a couple of hundred basis points or better year-over-year increase in penetration.
There is seasonality to this program so the benefit will be lower in Q4 than we expect it to be Q1 Q2 Q3 next year but continuing through year 2 in all likelihood and well beyond year 2 in terms of its year-over-year benefit.
PFresh a smaller benefit of course because of the nature of the program and also subject to seasonality which makes it a little smaller contributor in Q4 than Q1 2 3.
And for those 2 reasons seasonality in each of those programs that's why I believe that more likely our Q4 same-store sales could trail the last few quarters of experience by a small amount.
Your next question comes from the line of Robby Ohmes with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
The first was just on gross margin and the outlook there.
The rate improvements could you maybe talk a little bit about the rate improvements that you saw within categories? And was that primarily less clearance-driven year-over-year on your tight inventory management or is there something else that you figured out? And then the second question is Doug I think you talked about the Apparel and Softlines inflation being significant.
Can you maybe give us some view into 2012 on whether that inflation benefit -- the comp that you saw in the third quarter if that starts to anniversary as you move through the first half or second half of next year and how you guys are thinking about that? So I'll take the first one Robby on gross margin.
As you know our goal has been to maintain gross margin within categories or to improve it.
And obviously the team's done a fantastic job of that.
Part of that as you mentioned was great inventory control.
Certainly optimizing our markdowns has helped.
And then I would say in Home and Apparel the team has been very thoughtful about how to offset some of those cost increases.
And as we've talked earlier there's a number of contributing factors to that.
One is our standardizing of fabric which gets us better quality and consistency but we're also able to aggregate yardage and get better pricing.
And then the work that the team has done in garment design and technical to make sure that we're taking out costs wherever that's appropriate.
And then lastly where appropriate we have passed on some of those cost increases.
So while our pricing in the marketplace is really rock solid we've been able to improve on our gross margin.
Yes.
This is Gregg.
I'll tackle the inflation question.
First of all we really don't get the comp benefit from the inflation that we've experienced because as Doug mentioned in his remarks the units are down commensurate with what the inflation is in those primarily non-discretionary categories.
So in a general sense what's happening is the high -- or the higher inflation in cost inputs that has mitigated somewhat and as we turn the corner and we go into 2012 we believe we will experience far less inflation than we did in the second and third quarters and fourth quarters of 2011 but it will still be slightly higher than where we were as we entered 2011.
I know we're a bit of a broken record on this topic but we've always believed that the impact of inflation on the way up and on the way down is much likely much lower than many of you on this phone call believe.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the units versus price and the outlook for the fourth quarter.
That sort of 4% comp or maybe a little less is that what you guys bought for 3 or 6 months ago when you were planning for holiday or has something else changed in the consumer environment to make that shift a little bit? And I have a follow-up.
Nothing's changed it's exactly what we bought for.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So then the follow-up is Doug you mentioned on the credit.
It was very helpful as to how that starts to cycle.
Would you expect that we've reached that point where the provisions on the balance sheet and bad debt expense sort of at that absolute dollar number now just has to stabilize given that the delinquencies are stabilizing? Is that the way to think about it? We're getting very close to the point where they'll be stabilized.
I'd certainly leave the door cracked open to the potential for a much more modest receivables allowance reduction in Q4 than we've experienced.
Certainly within the next several quarters we're likely to reach that equilibrium.
Again the underlying performance of the portfolio remains quite strong.
We'll simply move into a period where we will no longer experience the turbocharging impact of those receivables allowance reductions certainly not to the same extent.
And given the fact that the portfolio is of course smaller than it was a year ago those factors will combine to produce segment profit lower than prior year actuals even though segment profit will highly likely remain fully fully adequate in light of the capital we have invested in that segment.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Gregg or Kathy on the dotcom given some of the challenges at the launch and Missoni all that going on at once do you have a team in place now to actually fix dotcom? Or do we expect to be adding more people or maybe building it up some more? Well we believe that the platform is stable.
We are in the process of building out that team and adding more resources to that team.
We have been doing that all along.
We very shortly will be naming a leader of that team but we have gone through -- we've made a tremendous amount of fixes as you can imagine with a replatforming effort of this magnitude.
We really took a 3-year program and did it in just over 2 years.
And so we fully expected to have some issues coming out of the changeover.
And we've had that amount of issues and more.
So we feel confident we've got the right amount of resources the capital that we're spending to make those fixes as well as the team members in place to make great progress going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First on the fourth quarter comps you talked about 4% or less.
If you could shed some light on the monthly cadence given some pretty wide swings that you're lapping a year ago the tough November easy December the extra day in December.
If you could provide any sort of clarification on how we should think about on a month-to-month basis in the quarter that'd be helpful.
We don't expect to experience the same degree of volatility month-to-month this year that we experienced last year.
And therefore if you're thinking of something like a 2-year stack we would expect November to be stronger than December.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And is that also sort of inclusive of trends you've seen month-to-date? Month-to-date we're right in line with where we expected so right in line with an experience that supports the comment I made a minute ago.
Let's please remember though that even though we're halfway through the month in elapsed time we're not even remotely close to halfway through the month in elapsed sales.
So most of the forecast for November lies ahead of us.
Research Division</strong> Sure appreciate that.
And then the second on the margin commentary if you could -- the favorability that you're seeing in a category basis maybe shed some light on the merchandise margin what that -- what's the performance there? And then going forward Doug your comments on the guidance modest gross margin rate deterioration.
As we've seen the adverse mix shift seemingly moderate over the last few quarters and you're lapping a reasonably easy year ago comparison on the gross margin kind of help us think about why we should expect some deterioration? Is that some of the REDcard free shipping some of the new initiatives that could drive some of the contraction there? Well year-over-year we continue to have pretty meaningful layer of 5% Rewards and a pretty meaningful layer of the impact of our PFresh initiative.
So even though it might be moderating to use your word it's still adverse to gross margin rate.
Separately looking back into the third quarter there's no doubt that our gross margin rate performance within categories exceeded our expectations going into the quarter.
So stir all that together when I've remarked about a familiar recipe what I meant to describe is a circumstance where we'll continue to see gross margin rate deterioration.
In Q4 I would expect it to be a little higher than what we experienced in Q3.
Separately we expect to continue to benefit in Q4 and beyond from the benefit of favorable SG&amp;A leverage and favorable depreciation and amortization leverage.
Our outlook for Q4 at this point is that those 2 expense-related benefits will be in line with maybe a little larger maybe a little less than the gross margin rate deterioration and that's why we think that EBIT margin rates in Q4 will likely be in line with last year's rate plus or minus.
Important to emphasize EBIT obviously.
With the depreciation and amortization benefit even year-over-year on EBIT would imply a slight deterioration in EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And just to circle back on the gross margin putting with your comments earlier that seasonally the REDcard is a little bit seasonally lower in the fourth quarter appreciate there's an adverse hit from REDcard and PFresh.
But it's in the fourth quarter that's a little bit lighter seasonally.
Maybe help us understand the greater deterioration? Again we experienced greater benefit from margin rate improvements within categories in Q3 than we expected.
That is the single largest offsetting factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then maybe Gregg you mentioned obviously the announcement on Doug and the change of the management.
There's obviously been other announcements Michael Francis and online.
Maybe just help us think about the timing in terms of assembling the new team.
How should we be thinking about what the complexion what sort of the skill set what sort of -- what Target will look like going forward in terms of the executive rank? Yes.
I'm not really going to address the timing of this because the timing will come when it's appropriate.
We have a very deep and talented bench.
Clearly Doug's retirement was a planned event and we have great internal team members.
We have a team of 355 000 strong.
But we're also going to take an opportunity to look on the outside as well to make sure that we get absolutely the best individual in any of these positions that are open right now.
So stay tuned.
Timing is undefined but I think the most short-term decision that you'll hear from us will be filling our multichannel and dotcom position and then the others will come after that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
[Technical Difficulty] Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Two quickly.
First just on the free shipping that you're offering with the REDcards where does that hit in the P&amp;Ls? Probably not super material but I just wanted to kind of understand where that would hit.
And then secondly Walmart obviously talking a lot about making incremental price investments in their business right now and going forward.
I guess my question is where are you seeing that show up in your business right now if at all? And has that reality kind of changed your planning processes for the holiday and beyond? I'll tackle your first question and Kathy will tackle the second one.
Free shipping will show up year-over-year as a decrease in gross margin rate.
Given the magnitude of this one I doubt that it'll be one of the -- I doubt that it would be one of the larger items in explaining our fourth quarter year-over-year.
Kathy? On the pricing side we have not seen it show up yet at Walmart.
Certainly they are competitive in their pricing as they always are but there are not any more rollbacks today.
In fact there's a few less.
And their discount is on par with where they have been historically.
So of course we watch that very carefully and we will adjust our prices as appropriate.
But so far we haven't seen an impact.
Yes I think Peter what you're going to see from virtually all of our retailers is that everybody is focused on winning on price and making price investments and they're going to talk about that broadly and loudly.
And that's the primary tactic of Walmart.
So it's consistent with what they have done as they lead into a Back-to-School or Back-to-College season or in the fourth quarter.
They typically talk about the price investment they're going to make.
They're a very aggressive retailer and they have a lot of good deals.
But it doesn't -- it's not all that different compared to where they've been in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one follow-up.
On and you may have mentioned this but the fourth quarter comp view what does that envision for traffic? Are you guys thinking transaction count is flat or slightly down slightly up? That would be helpful.
We don't forecast at that level of precision.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
This is Shane on the line for Deb today.
I just thought maybe I just wanted to take a quick look at Canada.
With you guys that kind of putting the real estate portion of it kind of behind you I just wanted to kind of see where you guys are in terms of the kind of market entry and that execution and also kind of talk about your relationship with Sobeys and how that's going? Well from a market entry standpoint we're right in line with all of our previous disclosures.
We expect to open 125 to 135 stores resulting from the Zellers transaction.
We are busily at work trying to identify additional sites to augment the sites that came about from the Zellers transaction.
The majority of those will open in 2013.
Some of them the more complicated projects especially ones that involve building expansions likely 2014 not 2013.
So from my standpoint we're spot on where we would have expected to be.
Gregg do you want to comment on the Sobeys relationship? Yes we're excited about the Sobeys relationship.
There isn't really a lot to share at this point in time.
I mean we're developing a partnership with them as we are other key third-party providers as part of our Canadian market entry strategy.
We're working hard right now in building out our team.
We're working on our supply chain both physically and the replenishment aspects of that and then the technology platform.
So we know we've got a very good team in place.
We're working very fast and furiously to make sure that we're ready to go and we open our first cycle of stores in Q1 of 2013.
And so just on that technology side are you guys using some of the technology that you have in the States or does it have to be a kind of totally different platform? We're using a different platform.
We're using the SAP platform in Canada.
Now we are also using an SAP platform for a portion of our business here domestically in the United States.
But effectively you should think of this as a blank sheet of paper approach building from scratch.
.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
One Gregg in terms of e-commerce just following up on that given that that business has likely experienced some deterioration in growth the last few quarters what has been the comp impact from e-commerce this year versus last year? Is that -- thinking about this as you get some of these things fixed in terms of the technology is that a comp opportunity next year? And then also Kathy refining the question about the competitive environment a little bit I'm thinking about toys and electronics as 2 potential categories of share gain this year just given the comparisons from last year.
Do you view those the same way as opportunities? And is anything happening competitively with Walmart in terms of their approach to toys for example that would make your share recapture more challenging? Yes the comp impact even before we entered the period of a transformation was relatively immaterial.
And as you point out there's been a slight deceleration during this time frame.
As we fix and become more experienced with the site we expect to get back to where we were in the past.
But overall it is not a meaningful layer on top of our store-based business at this time in terms of comp impact.
And Jeff to answer your question on the competition in particularly in Toys and Electronics yes of course we go into every year trying to grow our market share.
I would tell you Toys is off to a slow start and I think that's going to be a bit of an uphill climb for us this year although we're still optimistic about the rest of the fourth quarter.
Our in stocks are fabulous.
Our toy catalog is great.
We have over $350 of coupons in that catalog so more to be seen on that.
And then in terms of Electronics we are feeling pretty confident.
We've seen good results so far.
It's been strengthening as the year's gone on.
And the categories that are great for gift giving are ones that we're strong in.
So whether that's e-readers or iPads or the iPod we've got a lot of strength there.
Research Division</strong> Kathy what do you think it is in Toys that's presenting the challenge this season? Well I think Walmart Layaway program has certainly hurt us in November.
It still remains to be seen if that continues or if that is just a November issue.
But I also think guests are still researching.
We see a lot of that on our own site researching what it is they want to buy.
And so we haven't really seen the season kick off yet.
I'd also add Jeff and I think you're see a little bit of the early Black Friday hype in the fact that in these more seasonally sensitive categories the more people talk about Black Friday the more of a perception that there is that perhaps broadly you can wait on some of these categories because the deals are going to get better which really isn't true.
But there is a perception out there and there's a lot of discussion and a lot of other retailers release their Black Friday ads early and so there is some comparison shopping going on.
And unfortunately it's amounting to doing more business in a shorter period of time but that's just the way the market place has evolved.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
First on Canada what was driving the somewhat higher fourth quarter estimate of the operating start-up costs there? And in general how are you progressing with hiring? So that's the first question.
And then second on credit it looks like the net write-off ratio of 5.7% is approaching some of the lowest charge-off ratios that that business has really ever experienced.
With the better credit quality of the REDcard holders where would you expect that to be bottoming out? First on the Canada side from our point of view we're dealing with a fairly trivial timing issue.
Given the precision with which our Canada efforts are being followed I understand why this is -- I understand partially why this is a matter of such keen interest.
I would say that from a timing standpoint it's in the SG&amp;A side of the equation not depreciation amortization or interest expense.
There we have a combination of legal expenses wages and benefits and consulting expenses and those are certainly difficult to pin down with great precision.
Put in round numbers I'd say looking forward you should expect to see maybe a $20 million increase give or take in the segment in Q4 and additionally the Q3 interest expense of $15 million as a part quarter impact of the last round of stores so maybe that rises to $20 million or so.
So in the aggregate that takes you to kind of the single-point estimate that's in the middle of our $0.07 to $0.09 a share in the quarter.
On your question regarding credit quality yes certainly the accounts that we have underwritten in the past couple of years even beginning quite a bit earlier than the national rollout of 5% Rewards are accounts that we would or vintages that we would expect to mature at somewhat lower write-off rates than prior vintages.
By the way we're only focusing on the write-offs so that means they're also likely to mature at somewhat lower gross finance charge revenue yields than prior vintages.
But sticking with the write-off rate discussion hard to predict exactly where the net write-off rate will balance will optimize but we're clearly on track to have it balanced at levels that will test or go beyond in a favorable sense go beyond where we have ever been before.
On the Canadian hiring front it is going as we have planned thus far.
We have worked hard at defining our employment brand.
We've been on campus.
We've been talking about Target and the employment opportunities both in the stores and in our field operations and at headquarters.
We have a lot of positions to hire.
This is going to be a Canadian company run by Canadians and so we're spending a lot of time making sure that we educate the Canadians that we're looking to hire.
We're spending a lot of time with casual get-togethers.
We're on campus.
We made offers.
Our acceptance rate has been very good so far.
So we're feeling good with where we are right now.
We know that this will be an ongoing endeavor for us as we bring people on and sequence them over the next 12 months.
So so far so good.
We've got a great team up in Canada already and they're really doing an outstanding job and we're excited that many Canadians are really really interested in coming to work for Target.
So so far there's been a lot of interest in Target and we take that as a very good sign.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally Doug congratulations on your pending retirement.
Would you care to use this public forum to maybe discuss that decision a little? It is a decision that I did not take lightly.
It's something that I've been looking forward to for quite some time.
My head remains very deeply in this equation here at Target.
And I intend to make this transition as smooth as I possibly can in handing the baton over to my successor.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions for me.
First on the more mature PFresh stores have you been able to tweak the store offerings and marketing to drive fill-in trips at all? And then the second question I have is could you elaborate a little bit more on the improvement that you've experienced in the Home category and what you've seen there? Yes.
We're pleased with our performance in PFresh stores as we cycle.
And as we add more and more stores when we get market density we're able to market more broadly to the market rather than just geotargeting the marketing around the stores that are opening.
So now that we have good density you're going to see more broad marketing campaigns market-by-market.
Year 2 performance is still performing as planned.
We're making changes and adjustments in terms of mix and space within the store very typical to what we would normally do when we make a change of this magnitude and we continue to see good results in year 2 in our PFresh stores.
And in terms of Home we continue to make progress in our Home business even though this is the most discretionary area of our store.
As I said earlier we had a very strong Back-to-School Back-to-College.
Our Housewares and Stationery business has been very solid and we're also making progress in discretionary areas like Domestics and Decorative Home.
So we believe that the changes we've made both in assortment and presentation position us for continued success in Home but I would tell you that we still see that progress will be a bit slow and uneven given the economic conditions that we're in.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just my last question is during the quarter did the Missoni launch in business meaningfully impact the comp or the gross margin that's worth calling out on the numbers? Yes certainly both directly and indirectly those were both benefits.
But to the quarter's aggregate numbers not at all meaningful.
Okay we have time for one more call.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Bob's Home question.
It was positive in September.
I know you mentioned Back-to-School and Back-to-College and then it slowed down again.
Could you maybe talk about how much Missoni helped Home in that month versus perhaps the halo effect of traffic as you brought in a lot of excitement to the stores? And then bigger picture do you think there's any read-through about who is shopping the Home category the 95% or the other time outside of when you have the traffic event that Missoni was? I'll take the first layer of that one and Kathy can follow up for clarity.
First of all I think certainly as everyone is aware we have a huge and hugely profitable Home business and I think in our zeal to be precise we may have inadvertently misled a little bit.
When results year-over-year are essentially flat and they're slightly better than flat and we say favorable and about $1.52 worse than flat we say lower than prior we're just crossing over an interesting boundary but sales were neither hugely positive in September nor hugely negative afterward.
I would call the whole period and individual components flat flat to prior on a huge and hugely profitable business.
And in terms of the guests that shop in Home I would tell you it's the same guest that has been shopping in Home and particularly is our best guest better and best guest.
I think the changes that we've made in presentation about merchandising by component instead of by brand has helped make the category a bit more compelling.
And then just the content itself you've seen us reinvent our own brands.
Room Essentials was the first one Smith &amp; Hawken we launched a little over a year ago and Target Home has been evolving.
So I think that's where we're starting to gain some strength.
Clearly we've had strength on our good brands and best brands and it's been increasing on the better side.
Thanks Kathy.
That concludes Target's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corp.'s Fourth Quarter 2010 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our 2010 fourth quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Doug Scovanner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President Merchandising.
This morning I'll provide a high-level overview of our fourth quarter and full year 2010 results along with our priorities as we enter 2011 then Kathy will discuss our fourth quarter category results share recent guest insights and highlight initiatives for 2011.
And finally Doug will provide detail on our 2010 financial results our outlook for 2011 and our longer-term growth expectations.
Following Doug's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and Doug will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
We're very pleased with the fourth quarter and full year financial results we announced earlier this morning.
Our fourth quarter diluted earnings per share of $1.45 were above our expectations resulting from solid performance in the Retail segment unexpected strength in the Credit Card segment and favorability in our income tax rate.
Our full year earnings per share increased 21.4% over 2009 reflecting strong results in both business segments along with the impact of a robust share repurchase program.
In our Retail segment the pattern of our fourth quarter sales was far more volatile than expected as consumers retimed their holiday gift purchases weather across the country drove dramatic swings in our daily sales.
Traffic remained strong in the fourth quarter up 1.6% on top of the robust 2% traffic increase we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Our Credit Card segment continues to generate strong results due to disciplined execution and underwriting as well as improving consumer balance sheets.
Beyond the profit this segment generates for Target it creates much more value through its integration with our retail strategy.
Most recently as the platform for our 5% REDcards Rewards initiative.
Our REDcards are helping to deepen our relationship with our better and best retail guests.
As we pursue a potential transaction sell the receivables assets created by this segment a key priority will be to preserve the valuable integration of our card offering with our overall retail strategy and brand.
In addition we're committed to maintaining our card operations including all aspects of the interaction between our team members and our guests.
Beyond the performance of our business segments fourth quarter and full-year financial results benefited from our robust share repurchase program and favorability in our income tax rate.
Going forward we believe we will continue to have ample excess capital to devote to opportunistic share repurchase without adversely affecting our credit ratings after we funded strategically and financially appropriate investments in our core business.
As we enter 2011 we're focused on driving results in the near term while we continue to invest in initiatives that will sustain our future performance.
To ensure successful performance today our merchants are focused on creating newness and excitement staying reliably in stock on basic and commodity items and delivering outstanding value through our assortments.
And as always our stores' teams continue to focus on appropriately controlling expenses while delivering a superior guest experience.
Our goal both today and in the future is to be our guest's favorite place to shop.
We have several transformational strategic initiatives that will position Target for success over time namely we continue to remodel our existing stores to deliver an optimal merchandise mix along with a great experience.
After a record 341 PFresh remodels in 2010 we expect to set another record this year by remodeling approximately 380 more stores.
Consistent with last year's remodels our 2011 projects will expand our assortment of dry dairy and frozen foods at a thoughtfully-edited assortment of the best-selling perishable items and incorporate reinventions in other areas of the store including home apparel beauty shoes and baby.
In addition when we're making these merchandise changes we also update visual elements and refresh every part of the store.
The under existing store base we continue to add locations in the United States when they meet our strategic and financial criteria.
In 2011 we plan to open six new stores in March and another 15 locations in the second and third quarters.
We continue to develop our plans for a small urban format called City Target and we expect to open pilot locations in Seattle Los Angeles Chicago and San Francisco in 2012.
If successful this format will provide us more flexibility to operate in densely populated areas on sites that won't accommodate our larger store formats.
And as we announced last month we're excited about our plans to open between 100 and 150 Canadian Target stores in 2013 and 2014 as a result of our acquisition of leasehold interests in Zellers sites.
This transaction gives us access to key locations and markets throughout Canada and will allow us to achieve an efficient scale in a very short period.
We believe that the addition of Canada provides Target with better potential to grow sales and earnings per share to higher absolute levels several years out than we would have otherwise.
Beyond physical stores we're investing in target.com to ensure that we deliver our Target brand experience anywhere any time for our guests.
We expect to launch our own platform for target.com in the third quarter marking the end of our multi-year partnership with Amazon.com.
This project is on track and portions of the new platform have already launched including order management and fulfillment.
This new platform will completely transform the online experience for our guests driving traffic and sales by serving as the platform for our multi-channel initiatives.
And finally we expect our new 5% REDcard Rewards program will continue to deliver incremental sales and traffic in 2011.
Nationwide since last October's launch active new accounts are running almost 4x ahead of prior year and new REDcard guests are shopping more often and spending more at Target.
In Kansas City where we launched this program in October of 2009 we continue to enjoy strong increases in REDcard penetration in year two as more and more new REDcard guests sustain their higher level of engagement a good indicator of the program's strength in creating deeper guest loyalty.
These are some of the strategic initiatives that we believe will create value both today and well into the future.
With the addition of Canada our growth plans anticipate that Target sales will exceed $100 billion in the next six to seven years and we believe that we can at least double our earnings per share over that same time period.
Our teams are energized and eager to make each of these initiatives a success.
While we're very excited about our plans to expand in Canada we remain focused on thoughtful disciplined execution of our strategy here in the United States.
Because of our decade-long focus on recruiting developing and retaining strong leaders we have a wealth of talent at Target that will ensure we deliver on all of our initiatives around the world.
I want to thank our great team for all of the work they've done to deliver strong financial results in 2010 and for the energy they devote everyday to making our future plans a reality.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on our fourth quarter results share recent guest insights and outline key initiatives for 2011.
Thanks Gregg.
In many ways the fourth quarter was a lot like the rest of the year with times of surprising strengths followed by unexpected sales softness.
We believe this pattern is indicative of a new economic reality in which consumers think and behave differently than they have in the past.
We believe we're well positioned to continue to thrive in this new world because of our strong brand loyal guests and our singular focus on deepening the relationship with our guests.
As Gregg mentioned the pattern of our sales in the holiday season was more volatile than expected.
November sales and traffic were quite strong as favorable weather drove apparel sales and guests responded to holiday promotions like our pre- and post-Thanksgiving events in the final week.
We now believe that some of these sales were pulled forward from later in the season as we experienced a meaningful slowdown in sales and traffic in the first half of December most notably in gift-giving categories like toys electronics and housewares.
The last two weeks of December strengthened once again as guests responded to our differentiated assortment and the one-stop shopping convenience provided by our stores.
As we've noted in prior conference calls today's consumer is focused on value and this was clearly evident this past holiday season.
Not only did promotions affect the timing of sales within the quarter a higher-than-expected percent of overall holiday sales were from items on promotion.
We offset this pressure through our ongoing efforts to increase gross margin within categories meaning that the year-over-year reduction in our fourth quarter gross margin rate was entirely driven by our PFresh remodel program and REDcard Rewards.
Following a pullback in the second and third quarters consumer optimism is once again increasing and close to where it was in the first quarter of 2010.
Even so guests are telling us that they are still risk-averse.
They're concerned about losing their jobs and focused on controlling household budgets leading to increased coupon use and a focus on promotions.
For everyday purchases guests often choose the good items rather than the better or best items within categories.
In turn they use those everyday savings as justification to occasionally splurge on the best items in categories most important to them.
This has created softness on better items in some categories making it more important than ever for us to help our guests understand features quality and value at every price point.
As we turn to 2011 we're working to provide the right assortment great quality and low prices while delivering the excitement and newness our guests love.
We continue to differentiate with our own brands from value brands like up &amp; up and Room Essentials all the way to our upscale Smith &amp; Hawken brand.
In addition to our store collection we've introduced an expanded assortment from this iconic brand on target.com offering the highest quality garden and home products including expertly-crafted teak patio furniture copper pots and solid-forged gardening tools.
The relaunched assortment incorporates many of Smith &amp; Hawken's original designs offering the highest quality at amazing prices.
We continue to offer limited-time programs that create newness and encourage our guests to explore our store.
We recently completed the Great Save event in which we offered great prices on bulk packaged stock-up items in a club setting with no fees.
For the second year in a row we saw great results with this limited-time program.
In 2011 we'll continue to create excitement and differentiate our assortment by offering limited-time collections from great brands and designers.
In apparel beginning in March Target is celebrating the five-year anniversary of our fashion-forward and affordably-priced Go International program with the Blockbuster Collection featuring 34 dresses from 17 past Go International designers.
Guests will be excited to have a second chance to find the most coveted pieces from past Go collections and will have a unique opportunity to find all of these acclaimed designers and affordable looks together for a limited time.
Just in time for Easter Target is launching a line of Godiva chocolates beginning March 13 featuring an Easter bunny and a collection of ice cream parlor-themed items.
Prices on these delicious items will be amazingly affordable ranging from $3 to $10.
And beginning May 1 Target is partnering with Calypso St.
Barth a brand which has grown from a small resort wear line to a luxury lifestyle brand with 26 boutiques across the United States St.
Barts and Paris.
Calypso St.
Barth for Target features apparel and accessories for women girls and babies as well as home goods such as candles decorative pillows dinnerware glassware and serving pieces.
Prices for this collection will range from $2 to $80 and will be available in most Target stores and on target.com.
This spring in electronics we're rolling out Target Mobile Kiosks and the electronics trade-in program to an additional 600 locations bringing the total to approximately 1 450 stores by June.
These kiosks provide guests the opportunity to work with a trained expert who can assist them with the purchase of cellphones and data plans from the nation's largest carriers.
The kiosks also allow stores to offer a trade-in program that provides store credit usable for any Target purchase in exchange for used and working video games cellphones iPods and MP3 players.
In gaming we're excited about the new Nintendo 3DS system coming this March.
This is the first Nintendo release since the launch of the Wii system in 2006.
This system will retail for $249.99 nationwide and as always guests who use their Target REDcard will save 5% on a Nintendo 3DS purchase along with almost everything else sold in our stores and online.
This spring we're launching a blue and white theme across multiple divisions and brands in Home creating a differentiated and trend-forward look across our Home area.
As part of this initiative our in-house design team has created unique exclusive products for both our Room Essentials and Target Home brands which will be presented in unique and compelling displays both on end cap and in line.
We're partnering with Sabrina Soto our Home Design expert to educate guests on how individual items can be incorporated into existing looks allowing them to refresh their homes without breaking their budgets.
As Gregg mentioned earlier in 2011 we're continuing our ambitious effort to update our store base.
Our 2011 remodels will incorporate all of the merchandising innovations from the 2010 program including grocery home apparel beauty and shoes.
And later this spring we'll add the Newborn/Infant/Toddler area to that list.
We began testing this newest innovation in a small number of stores in July 2010.
In these test stores we removed the visual barrier between baby apparel and the gear and furniture area to facilitate cross-shopping.
We created a new sleeping destination including cribs bedding and accessories with larger floor-level displays.
We moved all apparel on to the hanging floor pad and we created a car seat and gear shop that's easier for guests to navigate.
Guests in these stores told us that the shopping experience was better more integrated intuitive and easy to shop.
Based on this feedback and the financial performance of the test we will begin incorporating this innovation into remodels that launch this March and by year end we expect to have it in more than 300 store locations.
Beyond our stores we're investing in our online and mobile capabilities as well.
At Target cross-channel shopping in which guests engage with us both in-store and online is growing faster than either distinct channel.
One of the primary enablers of cross-shopping is mobile phones.
Mobile phone traffic at target.com increased nearly three-fold in 2010 and accounted for 8% of our online page views.
We will continue investing to keep Target at the forefront of mobile retailing and we're pleased that we were recognized by Mobile Commerce Daily as the 2010 Mobile Retailer of the Year.
Target.com had a great holiday season growing faster than online industry sales due to increases in traffic conversion and average order value.
Our expanded free shipping offer played a major role in this performance as we expanded the offer to 950 000 items on orders over $50.
And our target.com team is on their way to launching the complete reinvention of the website this fall.
This new platform will place a premium on guest experience and will feature greater personalization expert advice navigation product detail and a much more compelling visual content.
Before I turn it over to Doug I want to comment on our efforts to mitigate the impact of commodity cost inflation.
While cotton inflation gets the headlines we're also seeing cost pressures in other fabrics along with food and other parts of our store.
Our goal is to maintain our gross margin rates within categories by addressing cost pressures in a variety of ways.
For example we've performed research to determine which garment features are important to our guests and applied these insights to the product design and development phase to ensure we deliver quality garments with features that add value for our guests.
To our raw material strategy we've standardized fabrics across multiple items and categories allowing those to achieve greater scale and drive production costs down.
And we're optimizing pricing and promotional plans within categories.
While these efforts will mitigate some of the impact in some cases we will need to raise prices to offset higher costs.
We will be thoughtful and strategic when making these changes and we'll monitor the marketplace to ensure we continue to provide outstanding value.
Our focus on our guests is unwavering.
We strive to stay ahead of her with an unbeatable combination of brands exceptional quality and value and the ability to deliver a great experience and surprise her on every visit both in-store and online.
We're confident that this focus will create delighted guests and strong performance in the year ahead and well into the future.
Now Doug will cover our fourth quarter and 2010 financial performance and provide details on our outlook for 2011 and beyond.
Doug? Thanks Kathy.
In my remarks today I plan to review our fourth quarter and full year 2010 financial results.
Then I'll provide a view of our 2011 outlook for each of our business segments including our new Canadian Retail segment.
And I'll wrap up with a discussion of our objective to grow sales to $100 billion or more and to at least double our earnings per share over the next six or seven years.
For the fourth quarter and full year we produced EPS growth of 17.0% and 21.4% respectively both of which exceeded our expectations.
Our annual EPS of $4 eclipsed our previous record annual EPS performance by 20%.
As a reminder exactly a year ago we outlined our plans for 2010 that supported our belief that the then current First Call median EPS estimate of $3.62 seemed like a reasonable single point estimate.
Our actual performance exceeded this figure by $0.24 per share excluding the net favorable discrete income tax items that added just over $100 million or another $0.14 of EPS to our results.
For the year just ended in our Retail segment we met the sales and EBIT objectives we outlined at that time.
In our Credit Card segment we far exceeded them.
Additionally for the quarter and year EPS also benefited from robust execution of our share repurchase program.
We invested almost $2.5 billion in repurchase of our shares during the year and net of stock plan issuance we reduced our shares outstanding by 40.6 million or 5.5%.
In fact we returned just over 100% of our net income to shareholders this year through a combination of dividends and share repurchase.
Our return on equity or ROE derived by dividing our net income by beginning of year total shareholders investment was a strong 19.0%.
In 2011 we expect our shareholders will enjoy their 40th consecutive increase in annual dividends.
In our Retail segment for the quarter and full year our sales were boosted by our two key growth strategies: PFresh remodels and the October national launch of 5% rewards.
As expected our Retail segment operating margins remained very strong replicating EBITDA and EBIT margin rate performance for the quarter and year in line with our record 2009 performance.
As I've observed many times the key to future prosperity in our Retail segment is to rejuvenate our sales growth while generally maintaining our premier EBITDA and EBIT margin rates.
Fourth quarter penetration of our sales on our REDcards our internal credit and debit products was 1.8 percentage points higher than last year precisely in line with our expectations for the period and representing the first significant increase in nearly a decade.
So far our national experience is a near-perfect replica of our earlier Kansas City test market experience in all material respects.
Our Credit Card segment continues to deliver superior results far exceeding our expectations for the quarter and for the year.
Our segment profit of $541 million for the year was $340 million or 169% better than the $201 million we earned in 2009.
This drove the pretax return on the $2.8 billion of capital Target has invested in these assets to a record 19.5% for the year.
Key measures of risks including trends and delinquencies and trends in dollar-weighted portfolio FICO scores continue to migrate swiftly in the right direction.
Now let's turn to our outlook for 2011.
In our U.S.
Retail segment we continue to expect that our remodel program and 5% rewards will each contribute significantly to our comparable store sales growth against the backdrop of persistently weak overall market growth in the U.S.
for the kinds of goods we sell.
In the case of PFresh we expect this favorable contribution net of the adverse impact of remodel disruption to grow to a run rate of about 1.5 percentage points as we progress through the year.
Separately we expect our 5% rewards program will grow more rapidly in its importance possibly adding close to two percentage points to our same-store sales growth later in the year.
Combined with an expectation that our base sales growth would remain slightly positive this adds up to an expectation of a 4% to 5% increase in comparable store sales for the year.
Obviously this is well above our current experience and above any overall same-store sales growth we've experienced in quite a while.
So if it were to unfold for the year we clearly would expect stronger growth in the fall than in the spring.
Our forecast envisions essentially flat retail EBIT margin rates for the year as the decline in the Retail gross margin rate is expected to be offset by favorable leverage on both the SG&amp;A and depreciation and amortization expense lines.
Importantly this offsetting balance for the year is unlikely to occur in the spring season and especially in the first quarter as we cycle against the strongest quarterly EBITDA and EBIT margin rate performance achieved in our modern history.
In other words given all that we know and expect regarding sales growth and timing matters today we would envision modest pressure on our Retail EBIT margin rate in the spring and modest favorability on this measure in the fall.
We expect to invest about $2.5 billion plus or minus $200 million in capital in the U.S.
Retail segment in 2011 up modestly from the $2.1 billion we invested in 2010.
This increase is driven in part by a larger remodel program and in part by modestly higher investment in future new stores as well.
In our Credit Card segment we expect receivables will continue to decline although the pace of decline should begin to moderate as the year progresses.
Measures of our rate of profitability should remain very strong for the foreseeable future.
In this segment we've begun the process of identifying the right strategic partner to purchase our assets fund our operations going forward and most importantly to work together with us to optimize portfolio performance metrics while continuing to deliver credit products that exemplify our Expect More Pay Less brand promise.
We'll update you from time to time when we have something to add.
And at this point I would only observe that we're pursuing a transaction that would remove the receivables assets from our balance sheet preserve the integration of our card offering with our retail strategy and maintain our card operations including all guest contact touch points.
This process will most likely take several quarters to unfold such that if a closing were to occur we would expect to achieve it late in 2011 or early in 2012.
The kind of transaction we have in mind if closed would produce a gain on sale followed by an expected sharing in the robust economics this overall portfolio is likely to continue to produce over time.
Now let's turn our attention to our Canadian market entry and the effect it will have on our financial statements in 2011 specifically looking at our Canadian Retail business segment the results of which will be segregated from our other segments beginning with the current quarter.
As you know we've agreed to pay a little over CAD $1.8 billion to control the destiny of up to 220 valuable leaseholds for space currently occupied as Zellers stores and which will continue to be operated by Zellers for quite some time.
We'll invest this capital in two separate closings in 2011 one in our second quarter and one in our third quarter.
We're currently deeply into a process involving scores of discussions with individual landlords to determine which leases we might want to assume and in partnership with our new landlords invest all the capital necessary to convert into new Target stores.
We're also considering which leases we might want to turn back to the landlords which leases might be assigned to other retailers and which ones will ultimately remain as Zellers stores.
Coming out of this process we continue to expect to open 100 to 150 Target stores primarily in 2013.
Even though these dynamics are quite fluid at this time I can share some detail surrounding the effects of our Canadian market entry will have on our 2011 financial results.
There will be two direct effects and one important indirect effect.
The direct effects will result from accounting for SG&amp;A expenses and from accounting for all aspects of the leases we elect to assume.
The indirect effect is that our investment in Canada will cause us to slow down the execution of our share repurchase program in the short term.
The primary SG&amp;A components will include the portion of IT development costs that are expensed not capitalized and the compensation and benefits of the Target team members tasked with planning and executing this exciting market entry.
Separately we'll begin to amortize the aggregate CAD $1.8 billion allocated to individual leases primarily on buildings that we intend to convert to Target stores and we'll begin to recognize interest expense and depreciation on leases for these sites that are capitalized.
These lease costs will be partially offset by sub-lease income.
Overall SG&amp;A and lease-related direct costs might add up to an EPS equivalent in the range of $0.10 for the year an estimate that will surely continue to evolve as the year progresses.
GAAP requires that we recognize these expenses in 2011 even though they're in a very literal sense important investments that will drive strong sales growth and strong EBIT growth in 2013 and beyond.
Also as a reminder if we were to assume any leases that were later assigned to other retailers or sold to landlords there could be gains or losses recorded at that time.
Separately the slower pace of share repurchase will cause modestly slow EPS growth in 2011 perhaps in the range of $0.05 to $0.10 per share depending on the assumptions you might use.
Combined with Canada-related expenses this means that our best current estimate is that the aggregate effects of our 2013 market entry will create a $0.15 to $0.20 headwind on 2011 EPS.
With this in mind let's turn to our outlook for aggregate 2011 EPS growth.
We actually earned $3.86 per share in 2010 excluding the $0.14 impact of the income tax items we previously discussed.
Net of all effects of our Canadian market entry we still expect to be able to grow EPS from our tax-adjusted 2010 results into a range approaching or perhaps exceeding 10% year-over-year growth.
Given its near term diluted impact why are we so excited about our transaction in Canada? The explanation is quite straightforward.
We strongly believe that several years out Target's sales and EPS will be higher and our long-term growth prospects stronger with this transaction than they would be without it and instead bought back yet more shares.
As Gregg said earlier with this transaction we expect to exceed $100 billion in sales in the next six to seven years and we believe our EPS will at least double in that same time period.
This means we believe that our execution of our core growth strategy in North America will cause EPS to grow over the next six or seven years at a compound annual rate of at least 10% to 12% per year achieving annual EPS of $8 or more by 2016 or 2017.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
We're very pleased with our 2010 results and we're energetically pursuing transformational initiatives that will drive performance in every part of our business.
With a great team millions of loyal guests and one of the strongest brands in retail we're prepared to thrive in 2011 and for many years to come.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now Doug Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Zolidis with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Question on the sale of the Credit Card.
I was wondering if you could just talk about what some of the benefits are that you expect from selling it? You've talked about how profitable it was and how it's exceeded expectations.
So can you just clarify for us why you think now is a good time to sell that business? And then is that -- should we assume that that is necessarily going to be a dilutive transaction? Lot of different issues wrapped up in that series of questions.
Let me see if I can address all of them and follow-up if I missed one or two.
Regarding your timing question we think the timing is better now than it has been in three or four years for a variety of reasons.
The performance of our portfolio is strong.
The change in performance is headed in the right direction.
The capital markets are much more receptive to an efficient funding of a transaction like this and many banks have ample liquidity and are looking for interesting and exciting places to invest their capital in order to achieve growth objectives.
So I think from a timing standpoint this point is better than any we've seen since late '06 early '07.
Regarding the performance of our portfolio and the more important strategic question of why consider selling these assets at all I think that over time we have grown to believe that it's in our best interest the corporation and its shareholders' best interest to remove the funding equation in some of the inherent volatility of results from our financial statements while retaining the expected benefit of a handsome profit stream that should be left over that we expect to be left over after meeting the needs of our partner.
Probably most importantly we believe that with the right partner engaged with our current financial services team we should be able to either improve the performance of this portfolio or grow it faster or both over time.
And we very much look forward to enhancing the prospects for growth and profitability in the portfolio with that partner.
Did that cover the waterfront? Inc.</strong> And then lastly should we believe -- when we do the math it turns out that this could be a dilutive transaction.
Is that necessarily the case? Depends on where you put the pencil down in your analysis.
Certainly if you stop at the level of selling the business selling the assets that is and making some reasonable assumptions about funding and sharing and so forth before application of proceeds more likely than not dilutive.
But of course the application of the proceeds will give us an opportunity to take the equity capital portion that we had tied up in those assets and devote it to share repurchase net of share repurchase may or may not be dilutive depends on the sharing relationship and of course it depends on the share price as well.
The longer we continue trading at 6x projected 2016 or '17 EPS the more beneficial share repurchase is.
Inc.</strong> So you can envision a scenario under which it's actually accretive? Possible.
It isn't going to be a big issue one way or the other in all likelihood.
Possibly mildly dilutive possibly mildly accretive.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Two questions.
Could you just give us a number of what you think like-for-like inflation did to the comp last year? And Kathy you talked about the plans on the rate strategy but what do you expect on that comp forecast that you guys talked about what portion of it could be inflation? Inflation deflation was not a meaningful issue in our 2010 sales results.
And while it's hard to say with any precision what it will be looking forward obviously we expect it to be a more meaningful contribution.
I do resist putting a concrete number on it.
There are too many variables right now for us to be able to make that prediction without misleading you.
Yes we are arithmetically calculated one time a year and when we looked at the waterfront of our businesses some were deflationary some were inflationary and the net effect all in was just a handful of basis points deflationary in 2010 just virtually negligible.
Don't you talk about that sort of 3.5% to 5% comp this year that it could be -- you're not assuming -- you assume that that's the same this year? No.
The 4% to 5% same-store sales expectation that I laid out is an all-in figure.
We're not going to be adjusting it.
That's not a real increase that we'll adjust for inflation to be able to analyze it.
That's an all-in figure from all sources.
And then secondly on the working capital the inventory did rise I guess about 5% or 6% last year more than payables.
Is that -- are we comfortable with that level? And was there basically is that a trend we should expect given the growth of PFresh? I'm very comfortable with our inventory position.
I think our in-stocks are in very solid shape and we did have some opportunity there last year.
This time of year also is one where we do a lot of different transitions and so the year-over-year comparison is a little less meaningful than other times of the year.
But I feel very good with the categories that our inventory is in and yes food does have a lot of it.
And I'm pleased with our in-stock position.
Imports have as much to do with this equation than anything else when looking at the relationship between payables and inventory.
Obviously we take title much earlier in the process on imported goods than domestic goods.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Kathy first question would be on price increases price pass-throughs of inflation rather.
We're observing in the apparel sector that some of those price increases are moving through observed it specifically in some of the branded product in apparel and denim.
Just curious your strategy will you let the national brand sort of lead this and then take private label and follow in order to kind of test consumer reaction in apparel? And then any comments in Home specifically on inflation? The second question would be on overall sourcing strategy.
I know TSS your internal sourcing has been gaining or had been gaining share the last couple of years which is a potentially a source of margin.
Could you update us on that and the potential for that to offset some inflation? Yes.
So your first question in terms of apparel and branded versus own brands.
Of course we control much more of the costing in our own brands because we design them and we source them and with national brands we're working with them to understand what their increases are and make sure that we're being fair and equitable with what we take.
And where we can't offset that whether that's with promotional optimization or clearance optimization we have been passing some of that through as we will with our own brands as that happens.
But we do have many more levers with own brands in terms of offsetting that.
For example how the garment's constructed our standardization of fabrics helps us not only improve the quality and the consistency of those fabrics but then also allows us to aggregate yardage with fewer mills and get better costing.
And then there's things we're doing with the supply chain as well.
So it's not necessarily that national brand is leading and own brand will follow.
They both will happen as the need arises.
And really the same thing in Home.
But you are correct in that the apparel national brand basic product has already happened.
And then in terms of overall sourcing we are continuing to increase our share of imports versus domestic products up just slightly this past year.
But with the growth of our own brands which is ahead of our total comp that does help our import penetration.
Kathy just to clarify so that TSS penetration accelerating faster than your overall sales growth that is a margin benefit for the company or one of those levers that can offset inflation? And then just to clarify in apparel what kind of net cost increase are you expecting out of the category for the year? It is a benefit to our gross margins to import more through TSS so that is correct.
And then we're seeing probably low- to mid- single-digit increases for the spring in apparel.
Jeff just one more follow-up.
A lot of cost pressures this year probably more cost pressures than we've seen in a very long time.
Clearly private brand penetration is one of those offsets we continue to be pleased with the private brand growing in food and with up &amp; up.
So that's plus size.
On the negative side though there is some shifting of the mix.
So I wouldn't read in a whole a ton if our import plantation goes up by 50 basis points or down by 50 basis points.
Over time we think that it continued to grow very slowly but there will be periods where it's both up and down based on what's happening with the shift in the mix of businesses that we have and the strength of those businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
Gregg you talked a little bit about the jeans and consumer shopping patterns this holiday season.
What did you learn from that? And not to share any secrets of hot [ph] holiday 2011 but what might you do differently as a result? Well I think the learning.
It's really not surprising that every year it is a different season and you have to develop a good plan but be prepared for unanticipated changes in consumer sentiment the use of technology mobile devices and things like that.
So we expect it to always be competitive.
This year we had a very strong beginning and start to the season.
And we pulled some of those December sales forward.
So we're focused on really understanding the guest research and their shopping patterns week-by-week all throughout November and December and trying to customize and tailor our plan to make sure that we are delivering the right kind of incentives and excitement that is consistent with what they are expecting in each of those weeks.
Sometimes they're very value-focused sometimes they're very convenient-focused.
Sometimes they're in planning and preparation mode.
So we're really trying to dissect the season and be more thoughtful in terms of how we market and approach the season on a week-by-week basis.
And then Kathy can you talk about the performance you've been experiencing recently in the hardlines and Home categories and initiatives that you have there in 2011 to maybe jump start the sales there? Yes.
So as you know sales have been more difficult in those two businesses than the rest of our portfolio.
And in hardlines I would say that it's mostly centered around the electronics and entertainment categories.
I am excited about some of the new releases that we have coming up early this spring.
I mentioned Nintendo 3DS which is the first platform from Nintendo since 2006.
So that should be very beneficial for Target since we over-indexed with Nintendo being more family-focused and young kids.
And in Home it's been really a mixed bag.
We've seen some strength in housewares and certainly in our stationery and holiday categories.
But we're still having some difficulty in domestic and part of the deck home business.
So also within those categories I think we're seeing some great results in our good product or opening price point when you look at Room Essentials and some of the things happening there.
At the same time we're seeing great strengths in the top end things like Calphalon has been performing very well or KitchenAid or Keurig.
So we're definitely seeing some more action in Home but it's still under-performing the rest of the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Couple of questions.
First the 4% to 5% comp plan for 2011 Doug just maybe any more granularity in terms of how you expect that to flow through the quarters.
February maybe a comment there how that's trending versus the low-single-digit plan? And then what does this earnings guidance you've laid out for 2011 what does it assume in terms of the amount of buyback that you will ultimately do? As I tried to lay out in my remarks if we actually end up in the 4% to 5% range for the year we would expect to be lower in the spring than in the fall not because of some economic crystal ball but primarily because of the contribution differentials spring versus fall of those core strategies PFresh and 5% rewards.
Much more specifically I said that we expect PFresh to be about 1.5 for the year.
It'll be certainly less than that in the first quarter and in that range for the balance of the year after the first quarter.
Separately as you know 5% rewards the contribution to our sales will build like a freight train as more and more and more households request the cards and begin using the cards driving incremental sales.
So I said in my remarks that we think that that increment might approach two full percentage points by the fall.
It was only one full percentage point or $200 million net of effect of the discounts in the quarter just ended.
So think of that as a data stream that grows smartly from one today to two in the fall.
And really the only comment I'd make is the fourth quarter will be a little lighter year-over-year than say the third quarter because of A natural seasonality; and B we'll be in year two not year one by the time we get to the fourth quarter.
So pull all of that together it means I would expect that our aggregate same-store sales performance will be lowest in Q1 and lower in the spring than in the fall.
Separately in Q1 as you recall from my remarks we're cycling against the highest quarter in modern history measured in Retail segment EBITDA and EBIT margins.
So clearly we have a taller EPS challenge staring us in the eyes here in the next 90 days than in the other quarters.
Share buyback we in round numbers as you know we bought back about $2.5 billion we invested $2.5 billion that is to say in share repurchase in 2010.
The 2011 figure will be lower.
It's certainly not sharply lower but depending on the progress we make in executing our business plan for the year maybe it ranges in the $1.5 billion to $2 billion bracket for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to just touch on two things.
First on your earlier comment about certain areas or certain categories where the better business has been tougher.
I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on which categories those are? And are you changing the mix to this year to adjust for that? And then on the consumer electronics space which has been a really difficult area and I know is very product cycle-driven are you starting to give any consideration to that area of the store the type of space allocation you give to areas particularly like packaged media? And then finally on the Gogo International it seems like you're really pulling together your best designers and just kind of curious what your expectations are if you're willing to share it from a comp perspective on that front? I think that was three items I apologize.
All right.
Let's start with the first the better section being somewhat softer than good or best.
I think we see that in a few areas of the store the one I would point to really is Home where we're having incredible strength in the good brands that we carry things like Room Essentials and we're also having fantastic response in the best things like Calphalon or KitchenAid or Keurig as I mentioned earlier Caldrea.
But in the better area things like our Home brand have been a bit softer and so I talked about some of the things that we're doing: one making sure that we are very clear about the benefits and the features of those products so guests understand when they're stepping up in price why that's worth it to them.
And then also infusing more trends so I talked about our blue and white trend statement that we're doing this spring which will go across many categories in the Home area and I think bring some freshness there and innovation in terms of not only the color and how that's infused in decorating but also within print and pattern.
In terms of electronics and space allocation it's still a very productive part of our store even though we have had issues with sales in some categories and even in the Packaged Media still a very productive area.
So we have cut space there over the past several years and we will always be evaluating and looking out over the next five 10 years to anticipate what those sales will be like and what kind of space we need.
But I don't see any large changes happening there at the moment.
I guess what we've sort of lost on the packaged good side over the year we've picked up in the digital side within the electronics business.
And so all-in-all the space still remains in that area of the store.
And then in terms of Go International I don't have a comp for you but obviously this is the frosting on our cake it's the most fashionable product that we carry and so it certainly won't compete with our core items in terms of volume but it does add an enormous amount of excitement particularly for our young very fashion-forward guest.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with JPMorgan.
Doug just wanted to clarify your guidance for the full year.
Did you say 10% off the $3.86 does that include or exclude the $0.15 to $0.20 from Canada that you expect to incur? I said a range surrounding 10% off of the $3.86 and that is net of the $0.15 to $0.20 adverse impact of Canada.
And then in the fourth quarter gross profit margins were down about 40 basis points and it sounds like that's mostly PFresh and 5%.
Is that a good proxy for 2011 when we look at the gross profit line? Actually let me clarify the comment about the Q4 2010.
The combination of the impact of PFresh and 5% rewards adds up to more than the gross margin rate decline.
So net all other factors we're slightly positive and therefore as an outlook particularly as these strategies build to more importance in 2011 the combination of the two will be larger not smaller than 40 basis points.
And then your allowance for doubtful accounts at the end of the fourth quarter as a percentage of average receivables is about 10%.
If you go back to in '06 '07 that was in the range of like 7% to 8%.
Where do you think you get to by the end of 2011? That's a heck of a question.
Certainly the risk trends as I mentioned are moving in the correct direction and rather swiftly so it's fairly easy to see that the allowance as a percentage of receivables will naturally decline in the next couple of quarters.
What might happen after that is a little more speculative because obviously today we can see for example as every credit card operator can see the migration from current to one month past due and one month past due to two and so forth and we have lots of internal science to be able to predict write-offs out three to six months.
There's nothing in our current portfolio measured metrics that would tell us where those statistics will be in Q3 or Q4.
But clearly we're headed in the right direction and it is certainly within the realm of possibility that we could get back to the level of experience you just described by this year end.
And just to John's earlier question about the profit stream that you could potentially retain I mean could you give us a range of what you think you could in a perfect world retain if you were to sell it in the fourth quarter of this year? It's premature to speculate on what that looks like because it's premature to speculate exactly how the sharing will occur said in much more straightforward terms a partnership arrangement where we each have where the partner has more skin in the game would naturally be a partnership arrangement where the partner would have a much greater share of the potential upside.
So in the more robust times that kind of arrangement would leave a little more with the partner and a little less with us but the mirror image of that of course is in thinner times the differential for us wouldn't be as large.
So it's a trade-off that we'll need to analyze together with individual partners to decide how much volatility we want to embed into our financials versus how much we'd want in the way of projected profits in the more robust times.
Every credit card transaction executed by retailers with partner banks has these features.
We're no different from anyone else in being at the beginning of exploration of how to analyze those trade-offs.
And then last question on February you guys outlined positive low-single-digits I believe a few weeks back.
Do you guys still feel pretty comfortable at that range? Yes.
Your final question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Here's the first question that I have is when you look at the comp trends over the last couple of months I guess including February as well can you just let us know why you're so confident in the 4% to 5%? And I think when I look at the metrics that you gave us around Kansas City could you share with us the comp in Kansas City? First of all I don't think I used the word confident in the same sentence as the 4% to 5% so let's start from scratch.
If we're confident about anything we're confident that the two sales buildings strategies that we've launched PFresh and 5% rewards are working as advertised and contributing significantly to our same-store sales performance.
Yet in contrast I mentioned earlier that the U.S.
market for the kinds of goods that we sell is not enjoying robust growth.
I think that we certainly -- I don't often comment on competitor's information but we certainly saw earlier this week that the largest player in the marketplace had yet another quarter of very slight negative same-store sales.
I think a lot of people are picking on my big brother.
I think that's much more a reflection of what's happening in the macro economy to them and to some extent to us than having anything to do with their stumbles.
That's as far as I'll go in analyzing their results.
But for the record I think that was a positive comment not a negative one in terms of the challenges that they face and how they're addressing them.
So I think the wildcard here Bob is what happens to the U.S.
economy and while unemployment remains stubbornly high we're not likely to see a robust base performance in our numbers.
So there is clearly an expectation of that base performance remaining modestly or slightly positive that would get us into the 4% to 5% range for the full year much more confident about the contribution of our strategies that we control than any confidence we'd exhibit about the macros and how that will play through the consumer.
Yes.
I'll just add in addition to the unemployment as you know the housing market still is not healthy and is a big challenge and there is some very strong early signs of inflation that we've already talked about in terms of product categories from apparel and soft home and food.
But the impact on discretionary spending with the pressure that's coming with rising energy prices can be a dampening effect on the broader economy.
So as Doug said we are confident in PFresh.
We're very confident in 5% rewards.
We have far less confidence about the underlying base macro environment that will affect all retailers in a like manner.
That concludes Target's Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation's First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday May 16 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President Merchandising; and John Mulligan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I'll provide a high-level summary of our first quarter results and strategic priorities for the year.
Then Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally John will provide more detail on our first quarter financial performance along with our outlook for second quarter and full year 2012.
Following John's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation of our -- to our GAAP results is included in this morning's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website.
We're very pleased with Target's first quarter financial performance.
Adjusted earnings per share a measure reflecting the performance of our U.S.
businesses increased 11.5% from a year ago as outstanding performance in our U.S.
Retail segment more than offset a year-over-year decline in credit card segment profitability.
GAAP earnings per share which includes the impact of our Canadian segment investments and unique tax items increased 5% over first quarter 2011.
In the U.S.
Retail segment our comparable store sales increase of 5.3% is the largest we've experienced since the third quarter of 2005 and more than 1 percentage point stronger than we expected going into the quarter.
As we noted in our monthly sales releases unusually warm weather combined with an earlier Easter drove stronger-than-expected traffic and sales in February and March.
Once guests were in our stores they responded quite positively to our spring merchandise assortments.
Sales trends accelerated across-the-board but were particularly strong in Apparel due to the seasonal sensitivity to that -- of that category.
We maintained a very healthy operating margin in our U.S.
Retail segment as gross margin investments in our store remodel and 5% Rewards growth strategies were more than offset by underlying strength in category gross margins combined with meaningful expense leverage.
As we've indicated before expense discipline has played a key role in Target's financial success as we've navigated the great recession and ongoing recovery.
We are committed to maintaining that discipline even when the economy and the consumer recover more fully.
Our credit card portfolio continues to generate outstanding profitability in addition to the value it creates by serving as the platform for our 5% Rewards program.
The credit card team has done a terrific job managing this portfolio which has emerged from the recession lean and healthier than ever.
5% Rewards continues to exceed our expectations.
Penetration of sales on our credit and debit cards continues to grow substantially with households shopping and spending more when they add one of these cards to their wallet.
And in Kansas City which launched this program a year earlier than the rest of the country we continue to see growth without any sign of a slowdown even though the program is well into its third year in that market.
This loyalty program drives a meaningful increase in guest engagement regardless of the starting point.
In other words all guests from our least engaged to our most valuable guests become much more valuable when they decide to sign up for this program.
I want to thank everyone on the Target team around the world more than 365 000 strong for driving superior performance we're reporting today.
I'm inspired by your accomplishments and your passionate commitment to our guests and the Target brand.
We continue to invest thoughtfully in our stores adding locations when we find opportunities that meet our strategic and financial criteria.
In addition we're transforming our existing store base to reflect our latest thinking in terms of layout presentation and overall store experience.
In the first quarter we opened 3 new stores adding 1 location net of closures for rebuild and relocation.
We also completed more than 100 remodels resulting in nearly 1 000 general merchandise stores that we've either opened or remodeled in the last 4 years.
This means that even though we've reduced new store growth in response to the recession and resulting slowdown in commercial development our store base is much fresher than before the recession began.
Guests in these stores respond to the appealing environment by spending more at Target as we capture more of their shopping trips.
While the most visible change to these stores is the addition of a broader food assortment including an edited assortment of perishable items guests also respond to enhanced navigation compelling visual elements and our latest thinking in Beauty Shoes Home Apparel and baby.
As we look ahead to the remainder of 2012 we remain confident in our strategy and operational plan but cautious about the macro environment.
We believe the current economic recovery will continue to be slow and uneven.
As a result we believe it's prudent to plan our business accordingly knowing that we can quickly respond as we did in the first quarter when an unexpected surge in traffic and sales occurs.
Outside of the U.S.
we're pleased with our progress in preparation for the launch of Canadian Target stores in spring 2013.
We are actively building our talented team in Canada and we're on track in the development of the IT and distribution infrastructures that will service those stores.
In the second quarter Zellers will begin vacating the first set of locations that we expect to open our Target stores next year allowing us time to completely renovate these sites to accommodate our unique merchandise assortments and operating model.
As a reminder we expect to open 125 to 135 Target stores in Canada by 2014 as a result of our real estate transaction with Zellers.
We also continue to devote meaningful resources to our online capabilities and multichannel efforts.
In the near term we're focused on strengthening our current web platform to enhance the guest experience.
Over time our vision is to create a unique seamless integration of our stores online mobile platforms and social media providing our guests the same great experience regardless of the channel they choose.
We continue to invest capital and resources in strategies that drive both our near-term and long-term performance.
In merchandising we're committed to continuous innovation finding new ways to surprise and delight our guests.
We've been pleased with the initial results from the first flight of The Shops at Target our most recent effort to deliver great design and differentiated merchandise at prices our guests can afford.
We're anticipating the opening of our first 3 CityTarget stores in July with locations in LA Chicago and Seattle.
These stores will provide the Target experience to guests in dense urban neighborhoods that can't accommodate our larger formats.
These stores will offer a curated assortment across all of our merchandise categories designed to serve the unique wants and needs of guests in these markets.
In addition we're continuing to invest in technology [indiscernible] spaces welcoming and easy-to-shop and will leverage our learnings across the chain.
We plan to open another 2 CityTarget stores in October and will study results in these 5 pilot locations to inform future store growth and merchandising decisions.
We'll continue to develop and implement strategies like our 5% Rewards REDcard Free Shipping and Pharmacy Rewards programs that increase loyalty and drive incremental sales by offering our guests convenience and additional savings beyond our everyday low prices.
We'll invest in our remodel program bringing the total number of stores with our expanded food assortment and merchandise reinvestments to more than 1 100 across the country.
This number represents about 75% of the general merchandise stores in the chain and nearly all of the eligible stores in major markets.
And we remain committed to selling our credit card receivables portfolio.
Our goal is to establish a long-term relationship with the right partner on the right terms removing the receivable assets from our balance sheet.
The right transaction will allow us to pursue our strategic objectives while sharing in the outstanding profitability we believe this portfolio will continue to generate over time.
Many of you tell me that our vision for Target's future and the strategic initiatives to support that vision are extremely ambitious.
I agree.
But the experience and commitment of our talented team and our track record of success give me confidence in our continued ability to innovate take thoughtful risks and reinvent ourselves in an environment that's changing more rapidly than ever.
What remains constant is our focus on our guests and our goal to serve them better saving them time and money in a way that deepens their relationship with Target.
We believe that this disciplined focus on our guests will lead us to develop and implement winning strategies for the future just like we benefit today from strategies we began to develop years ago.
Finally before I turn it over to Kathy I want to take a moment to comment on the newest addition to our executive team Chief Marketing Officer Jeff Jones.
As you know we conducted a lengthy and exhausted search to fill this key position and I couldn't be happier that Jeff has joined our team.
He has extensive experience and a proven record of success developing teams and building brands across traditional digital and social media spaces.
I'm confident that Jeff will build on Target's long-term success in marketing.
And I'm excited to work with him to elevate our iconic brand to an even higher level.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on first quarter results share recent guests insights and outline initiatives for the second quarter and beyond.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
Our first quarter results demonstrate the strength of our Expect More.
Pay Less.
brand promise.
Our low prices great store experience and broad assortment in Food and Household Essentials drive traffic regardless of the economic environment.
In addition when guests feel comfortable splurging on more discretionary items we deliver an unbeatable combination of fashion design and value on a unique assortment of items across Apparel Home and Hardlines.
In the first quarter both the pace and mix of our sales exceeded our expectations.
Early warm weather and appealing spring fashions drove higher-than-expected traffic and sales particularly in our seasonally sensitive categories.
As a result first quarter comparable store sales in Apparel grew slightly faster than the company average the best quarterly performance in that category since 2006.
Outside apparel sales in frequency categories like Food Healthcare and Beauty continue to grow consistently and rapidly as guests respond to Target's unique combination of convenience and value especially in our remodeled stores.
In Hardlines and Home first quarter results were strongest in gifting and seasonal categories like lawn and patio Housewares Toys and Sporting Goods.
On our website and mobile platforms first quarter sales increased but at a slower rate than in our stores.
As Gregg described our focus in the near term is to strengthen the website experience.
And while we continue to make meaningful progress we still have more to do.
Traffic to the site remains strong and conversion and guest satisfaction scores continue to improve.
We will continue to implement improvements to create the appropriate foundation for our longer-term multichannel efforts.
Consumer research provides insight into the environment that created stronger-than-expected first quarter sales while reinforcing our cautious outlook going forward.
In the first quarter research indicated that consumers were feeling a bit more confident in their financial situations making them somewhat more comfortable spending across all categories.
However the consumer optimism about the future reached a peak in February and began to decline in March and April.
In addition the percent of consumers planning to cut near-term spending increased in April suggesting the possibility of shorter -- of softer growth in the near term.
On the positive side recent declines in gas prices may lead to improvements in sentiment and stronger household budgets.
Against this backdrop of uncertainty we're planning our inventory appropriately for the second quarter and later in the year.
We're committed to achieving our sales plan and maintaining solid in-stock levels while reserving flexibility to adjust to short-term changes in traffic and sales.
As we demonstrated this quarter our base inventory can support meaningful upside to our near-term sales plan.
For the second quarter and beyond we've designed merchandising and marketing programs to surprise and inspire our guests and support both sides of our Expect More.
Pay Less.
brand promise.
This year we want to show our guests that we're the one-stop shop for summer fun.
We'll highlight an assortment of bright colors and fun patterns splashed across tabletop items backyard essentials picnic supplies and beach basics designed to make summer entertaining fun affordable and effortless.
And we've created in-store marketing elements visuals of oversized sunglasses or flip-flops hanging from the ceiling that will be impossible to miss.
For more than a decade Target's design partnerships have played a key role in differentiating our stores and merchandise assortments offering our guests something they can't find anywhere else and making the previously inaccessible accessible for all.
The Shops at Target is the latest innovation in our partnership strategy.
Rather than working with a usual [ph] designer this program highlights items from small distinctive specialty stores hidden gems which up until now have only been accessible to those lucky enough to live nearby.
Last week we launched the first flight of The Shops at Target providing guests across the country the opportunity to see what makes these shops so special and the response has been quite favorable.
With surprising finds across a variety of departments the shops offer unique products in Beauty Apparel pets Home and Candy.
Our second flight of the shops will set in early September with products in men's apparel women's apparel and Home.
Beyond this new strategy we continue to work with designers and brands to create Target exclusive collections.
With the help of Todd Oldham Target is letting kids be kids with our new and exclusive collection Kid Made Modern.
This collection of art supplies and activity kits gives kids and parents fun yet affordable creative design tools to inspire through art.
Look for Kid Made Modern in stores and online next week.
In music we've partnered with Grammy winner Norah Jones to bring guests a deluxe edition of her new album Little Broken Hearts.
The Target deluxe edition which features 3 bonus tracks is available now.
We've also partnered with 19-time Grammy award-winning music producer Emilio Estefan who will work with Target to curate a special selection of his favorite music movies and books entitled Emilio Estefan's Picks.
The selections will be featured online and in the entertainment department of select Target stores beginning June 6.
Additionally Estefan will leverage his strong relationships and pulse on the industry to help develop Target-exclusive partnerships with Latin music artists.
In swimwear we continue to build on our industry-leading market share position by growing in our owned and exclusive brands.
This spring we're very pleased with early results from the rollout of ASSETS by the makers of SPANX featuring one-piece suits and fashion tankinis.
We've also seen strong increases in young contemporary swimwear with signature print tankinis from Converse.
And in Mossimo Black we've seen -- we have created a fashion solid mix-and-match destination.
In July we'll roll out a new series of fits in men's apparel in both Merona and Mossimo to better match our guests' more modern tastes.
We're also reorganizing the floor pad by types of apparel rather than brand to make it easier for our guests to find what they're looking for.
Looking beyond the second quarter we're very excited about our recently announced plans to rebrand our Target Home brand as Threshold beginning this fall.
Target Home is already our largest owned brand but we saw an opportunity to better clarify its positioning and point of view so we undertook the biggest rebranding effort in our history.
Everything was on the table in this effort: product quality packaging and positioning within our brand portfolio.
We engaged in a similar effort to redefine our Room Essentials brand a couple of years ago and we've been very pleased with the results.
We believe this is an opportune time to rebrand Target Home as the economy continues to improve and more guests are beginning to feel comfortable trading up from good to better brands.
We'll debut Threshold with an assortment of entertaining essentials accents and decorative accessories and plan to extend the brand across our entire home assortment in 2013.
We'll have more information to share on this brand launch in future conference calls.
I feel very good about the health of our business our plans going forward and the ability of our team to execute on those plans.
Across our business we're committed to achieving the appropriate balance between managing risk and seizing opportunity between wants and needs and ultimately Expect More.
Pay Less.
Instead of choosing only one or the other we've proven successful over time by choosing both.
Now John will share his insights on our first quarter performance and outlook going forward.
John? Thanks Kathy.
This morning I'll provide more detail on the drivers of our first quarter financial performance and I'll wrap up by providing our current outlook for the second quarter and our 2012 fiscal year.
As you know last year we began reporting adjusted earnings per share because it allows all of us to measure the performance of our U.S.
businesses excluding the impact of our Canadian segment investments and unique or onetime items.
In the first quarter adjusted EPS grew 11.5% from $0.99 in 2011 to $1.11 this year.
This performance was better than we forecasted going into the quarter and just above the updated range we provided on our March sales release.
Performance in both our U.S.
segments was outstanding and ahead of our plan for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis we earned $1.04 per share $0.07 lower than adjusted EPS reflecting Canadian segment expenses worth $0.08 a share offset by a $0.01 benefit from the favorable resolution of income tax matters.
Our first quarter comparable store sales increase of 5.3% was well above our planned increase of about 4%.
These unexpectedly strong sales drove outstanding profitability when compared with both our plan and last year.
As Kathy mentioned consumer sentiment turned somewhat more positive early in the quarter and we certainly experienced the traffic and sales impact of early warm weather combined with earlier Easter timing.
On our sales we earned a very healthy EBITDA margin rate of 10.3% favorable to last year and our plan.
This performance reflected a modest decline in our gross margin rate as the impact of our remodel program and 5% Rewards was partially offset by favorable sales mix unrelated to our remodel program combined with gross margin rate improvements within categories.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we gained leverage of about 0.5 percentage point driven by continued productivity improvement in our stores and disciplined expense control across the company.
As expected depreciation and amortization expenses were essentially flat to last year providing an additional benefit to our retail EBIT margin rate.
As Gregg mentioned our 5% Rewards program is exceeding our expectations in terms of penetration and incremental sales.
In the first quarter percent of sales on our credit and debit cards grew 4 full percentage points over last year to 11.6%.
Notably most of this incremental penetration is coming from our debit card which many of our guests are choosing because they don't want another credit card in their wallet.
Either choice is fine with us because regardless of whether they choose our debit or credit card guests on average increase their spending with us more than 50% once they get the card.
The Kansas City market where we implemented this program a year ahead of the rest of the country has so far proven to be an incredibly accurate roadmap for our national rollout in every aspect.
And in that market we continue to see year-over-year penetration increases of more than 3 percentage points giving us a high degree of confidence that this program will continue to contribute to our sales growth well into the future.
In our U.S.
Credit Card segment we continue to earn an outstanding yield on a portfolio that is shrinking as planned.
Yield for the quarter was 9.1% above LIBOR or $137 million down from $209 million a year ago.
This year-over-year decline was the result of cycling a very large reserve reduction in first quarter 2011 along with the impact of a smaller asset base.
During the quarter we renegotiated the private securitization conduit which continues to fund a portion of the credit card portfolio increasing its size by $500 million to $1.5 billion and extending its maturity until midyear 2013.
We have the right to retire this financing early at par flexibility that will be beneficial as we continue to pursue our goal of a credit card receivable sale.
As expected our Canadian segment recorded first quarter SG&amp;A expense of $34 million up from $20 million in the prior quarter as we continue to build our Canadian team and record expenses related to IT investments.
In addition we recorded $21 million in depreciation and amortization within the segment and $20 million of interest expense on capitalized Canadian leases outside the segment consistent with fourth quarter results.
Even while we continue to invest in our U.S.
and Canadian segments we have the capacity within our debt ratings to return a meaningful amount of cash to our shareholders.
In the first quarter we invested about $600 million to retire approximately 10.5 million shares fitting a very strong start on our annual plan.
In addition we paid dividends of just over $200 million meaning we returned well over 100% of our first quarter net earnings to shareholders.
Now let's turn to our outlook for the second quarter and full year.
Even though we experienced upside in the first quarter our view of sales for the remainder of the year remains largely the same as before given the current environment.
For the second quarter that means we're planning comparable store sales increase of around 3%.
And for the year we believe our prior guidance of 3% or a little more remains appropriate and we're happy to have a very strong start on that plan through one quarter.
For what it's worth so far in May our sales have been running essentially on-plan and consistent with our prior guidance of a low- to mid-single-digit increase.
And we remain comfortable with our outlook for the quarter and the year.
We continue to expect U.S.
Retail segment EBITDA margins in line with last year's performance with continued modest gross margin rate declines generally offset by leverage on SG&amp;A expenses.
Of course year-over-year comparisons on these metrics in any one quarter will likely exhibit more noise than we'll experience for the year in total.
As of today we expect our Q2 EBITDA margin rate will be in line with last year's performance.
In the U.S.
Credit Card segment we expect continued declines in the asset base although the rate of decline will likely moderate throughout the year.
We expect portfolio yield to remain quite healthy but we'll continue to experience year-over-year declines in spread to LIBOR as we cycle large reserve reductions in last year's second and third quarters.
On a rate basis we continue to expect the portfolio to earn a spread to LIBOR of 700 basis points or more for the year.
Our plans for the Canadian segment remain right on track and we look forward to opening our first Canadian Target stores in a little less than a year.
This year SG&amp;A expenses in this segment will continue to build as we continue adding to the Canadian team and we begin to incur dead rent during the 6- and 9-month period required to convert former Zellers sites into brand-new Target stores.
So putting this all together.
We expect to earn second quarter adjusted EPS of $1.04 to $1.14 and GAAP EPS of $0.94 to $1.04 with the $0.10 difference in those ranges reflecting our forecast of expenses related to our Canadian segment.
For the full year we've raised our outlook by $0.05 and expect adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.80 and GAAP EPS of $4.10 to $4.30.
We continue to forecast a $0.50 difference between those ranges reflecting our outlook for full year expenses related to our Canadian segment.
Altogether this performance in 2012 will keep us right on track to achieve our long-range plan for $100 billion or more in sales and $8 or more in earnings per share by 2017.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
We're very pleased with our first quarter 2012 financial performance confident in our strategy and we're planning our business appropriately for the second quarter and beyond.
That concludes today's prepared remarks.
Now Kathy John and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] rewards card just shy of 12% penetration.
It sounds like Kansas City is running 15% and you’re continuing to see pretty steady increases there.
So a couple of questions.
Firstly where do you think the ultimate penetration goes? Would you expect the total company penetration to be up to the 15% range this year given Kansas City? And is Kansas City still generating the 50%-plus lift of incremental spend which would suggest the comp lift to the total business is running at about 150 basis points? So first on penetration.
Ultimately where do we expect penetration to go this year? I think you're probably in the right range for the company by Q4 not on average for the year obviously but probably in November and then obviously in December it comes down a little bit with the sales surge.
But in November that's probably about the right range.
And in Kansas City you're right.
We continue to see fantastic performance penetration growing 300 basis points a year.
And the lift there just like it is in the rest of the country continues to be in excess of 50% for both credit and the debit product.
The only comment I'd make is -- other comment I'd make is the lift in penetration now driven about 2:1 by debit rather than credit and that's a reversal from what we saw about a year ago at this time.
Yes I would just add that over the long term we really don't know -- we're -- how high high is.
We continue to be excited about the performance in Kansas City in the chain and we believe that there is still a long runway with the growth of this penetration over time.
We're going to continue to invest in it.
And clearly guests really the ones that get it love it.
And our challenge is continue to get more guests to understand the immediate and powerful benefits that both of these cards provide for them.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just a quick follow-up for Kathy.
I know you do a pretty thorough job looking at pricing on a regular basis.
Any comments on what you're seeing in the environment especially in the more consumables area? I would say that the environment's pretty rational right now.
It's always very competitive.
And as we head into the summer and getting closer to Back-to-School I'm sure that that will heat up as it does every year.
But I would say right now it's pretty rational.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions first on the inventory position.
Obviously you had better sales in Q1.
I'm assuming maybe that's a little bit why the inventory's down slightly year-over-year.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on your ability to flex in Q2.
Is there any limiting factors based on your inventory position today? And then secondly if you could share any web metrics with us that outline some of the progress you've made.
I'll take the first one on the inventory.
Our inventory remains in great shape.
We have a large base inventory that we can sell into so we don't believe there's any real -- or any meaningful limitations in our ability to perform in second quarter or even exceed the sales plan that we've laid out for you today.
And the second one on web metrics.
We're very focused on our overall site performance watching speed on all parts of the site all pages as well as our ability to improve search and order fulfillment.
And so I'll tell you we've -- we're investing meaningful resources in our multichannel efforts.
We're very committed to making improvements.
We have seen those metrics improve meaningfully so far this spring.
We still have a lot of releases yet to come this spring and summer and we think that that will continue to help these metrics improve.
So a big focus for us and you'll see us continue to talk about it as we go throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the SG&amp;A performance in the quarter can you just provide a little bit more color in terms of the improvement there on the retail side? Yes Deb.
I think first of all expense has been like Gregg mentioned a big part of our performance over the past several years and again this quarter led by the stores significant productivity increases in the stores as they continue to deliver great guest experience.
I think on top of that we saw great expense performance really across the entire company very disciplined expense growth in all aspects of our business.
And the final comment I'd make is when we see sales surge like this our variable expenses grow a little bit don't ramp up as quickly as we see sales ramp up so we get some benefit from that.
You see that on the downside too when sales decelerate quickly.
It takes us a little while to get our variable expenses back in line.
But overall really great expense control in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about the improvement in mix and also what you're seeing with regards to private label? Well certainly our Apparel sales this spring helped our mix quite a bit but I would say owned brands overall have been strong really across-the-board.
Our consumables and commodity categories as you know continue to be very strong.
All of our Apparel owned brands have been performing quite well.
And in Home we've seen good results in Room Essentials which we've talked about before but also Smith &amp; Hawken and some of our better brands.
We now have 10 owned brands or signature national brands that are -- that do over $1 billion in retail.
We continue to invest in our owned brands.
We treat them as national brands.
We position them as such.
And they're a key part of our strategy.
So we're -- you're going to see us continue to focus on these very important parts of our merchandising strategy including as Kathy mentioned the relabeling or the rebranding of our Home brand into Threshold later this fall and as we transition into spring and summer of 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just John I was wondering if we could dig into the gross profit margin line a little bit more if you could kind of put into buckets the mix impact the impact from 5% the rate benefits.
And then I guess kind of looking ahead what should we think about for the balance of the year? Yes I think in Q1 I would tell you that more than all of the rate declines as we said in the comments came from 5% Rewards and PFresh.
And we saw a significant improvement in mix as Kathy just spoke about and a little bit of rate good news across all the categories rounded out the balance of that.
I think as we look forward we would expect to see similar declines driven by both 5% Rewards and PFresh through Q2 Q3 and the year and perhaps a little bit of good news across the categories.
We don't plan for mix improvement.
That was kind of a bonus this quarter with the good apparel mix.
But we'll see some rate improvement across the categories as we go forward as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then after multiple quarters here of sub-1% traffic you guys enjoyed a nice uptick here in the first quarter.
Why do you think it got better for you guys? And do you think it's sustainable? Well as we said in the -- the strong early weather was certainly a portion but overall I would just tell you that Target's on its game.
We're delivering great value great overall experience.
Our merchandising content is fantastic it's colorful and bright season.
Our stores are delivering great service.
We're just doing a lot of things very well in our stores right now and I think the benefit of that is continued market share gains across all categories and guests that really love the shopping experience at Target.
And that's really what we delivered in the first quarter and that's why I think the traffic levels were up in that 2% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one for John.
Just the credit metrics the monthly ones that you guys report delinquencies have come in much better here over the past few months.
Can you hold our hand a little bit on how we should model the allowance line and bad debt as we cruise through the rest of the year? Sure.
I think on delinquencies a lot of what you saw here in Q1 was really seasonal.
I think that's been hard to deduce over the past several years as we kind of climbed up and then have come down.
But a lot of that improvement is seasonal.
Having said that it was still a little bit better than we would've expected going into the year.
I think our expectations are we'll continue to see year-over-year improvement in delinquencies as we go forward here through Q2 and then probably leveling off.
Q2 last year was when we really started coming back.
The delinquencies in our bad debt expense versus write-offs started to level off.
So you'll see that level off getting into Q3 and Q4.
I think on the reserve right now we're at about 6.6% of assets and that's about the range 6.5% that we'd intend to stay at for the year.
I think if you look at our -- the reserve release in Q1 $35 million 80% of that was really tied to volume of the asset base coming down the last 20% the last $7 million or $8 million tied to delinquencies.
So a little bit of good room in reserve if delinquencies continue but I don't think anything significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First on the comp.
The plan you guys have the 3% how much of that shift from the 5.3% we just did down to 3% would you say would be traffic versus ticket? And specifically in ticket that ASP per unit that actually had a nice pick-up to 2.6%.
Greg that's hard to say.
We don't forecast at that level of specificity traffic versus ticket.
What I would tell you -- as you know if you step back and look at what we talked about at the beginning of the year we said -- or 90 days ago we said 3% or a little bit more and 4% for the quarter.
Obviously Q1 was faster than that but given that we had a 4% in Q1 the other 3 quarters were bound to be lower given what our thought was on the year.
And that's really what you see here.
So I think the 3% for our quarter is -- for Q2 is right on our thinking when we went into the year.
Research Division</strong> So maybe asked a different way that 2.6% year-over-year we were seeing Food or Home CPI decelerate is it your working assumption that that will -- that could start to take that number the 2.6% that that would also slow into the second quarter? It wouldn't just be traffic in other words but...
Yes it's possible but that would be a relatively small impact relative to what's -- all the other variables that are driving our sales at any given time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second is on CapEx.
Can you just update us on what the budget is for this year and sort of where that peaks as we're doing Canada and when it comes down over the next couple of years? Yes.
I think -- sure.
This year we're -- we remain at about $3.3 billion in total: $2.5 billion in the U.S.
and $800 million in Canada.
We haven't released guidance going out.
But I would tell you for the U.S.
that 2.5% range could be plus or minus.
Something in between $2 billion and $3 billion is the right range for us to think about in the U.S.
Canada we expect to peak next year probably somewhere over $1 billion as we get through all the remodel cycles just given the number of stores we're doing.
And we’ve said $10 million to $11 million per store so somewhere over $1 billion next year and then Canada easing back significantly post that.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Carroll with UBS.
Research Division</strong> One quick question -- or actually 2 -- in 2 parts going to REDcard.
I was wondering coming out of Q4 and obviously there's a little bit more noise around the REDcard contribution during Q4 and the holidays but I think there've been a comment where debit had been lagging a little bit in terms of the initial lift versus what you -- had been seen from credit.
So that 50% blended number that you're talking about now is there any sort of -- I guess how big is the divergence between those? Or has it kind of normalized where the 2 have come back together during Q1? Yes I think what we're seeing now -- well first I -- debit has started to grow significantly faster.
And as that has happened we've seen both debit and credit are within noise of each other above 50% lifts.
So both of them above 50% and the average is right around there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess now that we have a little bit more data on there I mean how does that customer season? And I mean if the -- is that the year one lift where you're seeing that 50% for new customers? And I mean if so when you start looking at year 2 I mean do they continue to outperform the broader corporate average? Yes we see that year one lift increase in total spend and then they stay at that level of purchasing with us.
They stay a very very engaged guest.
And I think that's kind of the point here is we take a guest and as Gregg mentioned regardless of where they were prior to getting a REDcard we get a sales lift on average of 50% and they become just a much much more engaged guest more trips.
And all of that remains in year 2.
Obviously we're just starting to get in here in year 3 but we see similar behavior there as well.
Yes well that's one of the things we think is really exciting about the credit and debit products is the fact that whether you're a convenience user you're least engaged you're visiting us only seasonally or you're one of our VIPs this card is meaningful -- these cards are meaningful for you and you're moving up the value chain.
So people that are coming very often but spending very little they love this card.
Our best guests they love these cards -- these products too.
So it's exciting that virtually all of our guest demographics understand and realize the power and the value and the benefits of our credit and debit REDcard Rewards program and visit us more often and spend more on the card.
So it's really sticky and it's got -- it's a great loyalty program.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A question for Kathy.
On your survey where you found that consumers kind of peaked on their confidence in February and then we saw that drop off into March and April what factors were they citing? Maybe give us some insights on where the consumer's head is right now.
I think the point is just that their confidence peaked in February but as they were looking forward and I'm -- gas prices are a part of that and just their budget overall.
They were getting a bit more cautious which is why I said as we look forward we are remaining liquid and making sure that our inventories stay in line so that we can adjust whether that confidence goes back up like it did in the first quarter.
And you can see that even on our base inventory we can outsell our sales performance by a considerable amount.
But if it doesn't and their confidence goes down we'll be able to keep our inventories in-line and maintain our profitability.
So I think it's a combination of things that are just happening in the marketplace that make them more or less nervous at any given point in time.
Research Division</strong> Have you looked back in time? Did you find that those indexes are more tied to unemployment trends? Or is it just gas prices and more near-term jitters? I think it's all of those things combined but certainly the ones that take money out of their wallet today have a meaningful impact to what they're able to spend on other products.
So gas would be one of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for John on the credit card segment first quarter was probably your toughest compare in terms of lapping the largest reserve release.
Should we expect that decline in the credit card EBIT to kind of decelerate moving forward? Yes I think that's right although we still have a very large reserve release of $85 million last year in Q2 and somewhere around $50 million -- $40 million to $50 million in Q3 so still very large things to annualize against.
But your trend is right.
The year-over-year performance will improve as we go through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay thank you and we'll be watching for Canada.
Great.
Sounds good.
And we're excited.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to think about the weather pull-forward? It's a great debate out there amongst investors.
Is it something that is isolated to an April time frame? Or do you think that some of that happens in May as well? Well nobody really knows.
I think we're all sitting around trying to figure out how much business was pulled forward how many weeks did that go post Easter and when we're going to see a more normalized time frame.
And I think we're basically there now.
I think there's -- I think there were a couple of weeks maybe that bled into May a little bit.
But right now I think that it's safe to assume that the -- that any weather-related factors are essentially behind us.
Research Division</strong> And then as you think about x that weather shift do you think you had run let's say a 4-ish type comp x the holiday season? Do you think that shifted higher as a result of some of the improvement in macro and merchandising perhaps disruption that you're seeing in some of your competitors? Perhaps.
We ran a little bit stronger than that early in the quarter.
It's really hard to say.
It's hard to parse those things apart.
I think like I said when we go back to what we were thinking 90 days ago we thought we'd run a 4.
We ran a 5 so clearly business was a bit better in Q1.
But right now we're operating about where we thought we'd be when we talked to you guys 90 days ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question on the timing of the buyback and the flow-through.
You bought back a lot of stock this quarter.
Was it purchased late in the quarter and that's why it didn't show up? And was any of it offset by share dilution? We don't talk much about the timing within the quarter Chris.
I think anytime we're buying within a quarter it's not going to have a lot of impact on that quarter just because of the nature of how we calculate average shares in that quarter.
And I think our dilution -- any share dilution that occurred would be normal course.
We didn't see anything outside what normally happens every year every quarter as we go along.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on what Chris was asking a little bit there.
The -- if I'm right the fiscal '12 guidance was increased about $0.05 on the earnings front and I think versus your initial plan you beat by more like $0.10 $0.11 if you use the midpoint.
So it doesn't sound like you've got really any estimate of a pull-forward impact.
But with the sales plan not really changing over the balance of the year so just incremental conservatism given the macro outlook or just help us why not the full flow-through of the first quarter beat? Yes I think as we thought about our annual outlook certainly we wanted to reflect the very strong performance we had in Q1.
But I think as we sat back we also are looking here and saying "Well we're through one quarter of the year.
You got Q2 Q3 Q4 yet to go." And as Kathy talked about our view of the macro environment really hasn't changed appreciably in the last 90 days.
So while we enjoyed some weather pull-forward and had the right merchandise absolutely in Q1 and you see the benefit of that in our performance we think that our current outlook is a reasonable outlook for our business given the very strong performance in Q1 but the fact that we've got a lot of wood left to chop here in the year before we get to the end.
Research Division</strong> That’s great.
That makes sense.
And then just one follow-up.
Your sales comparisons do start to get a bit tougher in June and July.
That's when the business really started to pick up last year.
The second quarter comp plan of around 3% is that consistent across the months? Or do you assume some sort of deceleration over the June July time frame? Or are we getting too specific there? It's pretty granular but I think we feel pretty comfortable with all the months relatively consistently as we look across Q2.
Your next question comes from the line of Robbie Ohmes with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Actually 2 questions for Kathy.
The first one Kathy just the -- I was hoping you could maybe talk a little bit more about the drivers to keep category gross margins improving sort of how you're doing that is it -- if it isn't mix shift that you guys are looking for to keep gross margin going up so just some commentary on that.
And then also not to corner you but while I have you I think I bought 3 or 4 Kindles at your stores literally over the last 12 months and I was hoping you could maybe give some of us some more insight into the thinking behind taking that out of your stores.
Sure.
For the first question Robbie in terms of the gross margin certainly mix helped us as I said earlier with Apparel.
And as we grow Apparel that definitely is positive.
Owned brands is another one that's positive that we continue to grow and intend to for the future which will help us.
In terms of rates and how we're doing that I think it's a number of things.
There's not one single contributor but it's optimizing our prices across-the-board whether that's our regular retail our promotional retails or our clearance.
There's a lot of work that we do with that as well as as guests are trading up into better brands there's typically more profit in those brands.
So it's a wide mixture of things that are driving it.
And certainly our inventory control helps that as well.
In terms of the Kindle we continually go through an assessment of our assortments and we felt that this is the appropriate decision for us to make at this time.
So we will be phasing out the Kindle products throughout the spring here of 2012 and we will be out by early summer.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions one back on e-commerce.
Kathy and/or Gregg I was just curious if you could talk a little bit more about any sort of category dynamics that are leading you to conclusions about kind of opportunities you have where there've been deficiencies where you're tracking below your plan or below what you'd expect given your store penetration in those categories.
And how much of the improvement going forward will come from tech investments in the service levels versus just approaching that channel differently from a merchandising standpoint? Jeff there's a lot of things that are leading us to decide what it is that we want to -- where we want to make improvements.
Some of them are on the category dynamics and how we're selling but even in categories where sales are fairly robust -- Apparel sales online have been fairly robust -- I still think that there's a lot of improvements that we can make.
So a lot of the metrics I talked about earlier are things that affect the whole site things like speed and search our order fulfillment.
And so we've just done as a team a deep assessment of how we think we're performing where the site is slower how good our search function is relative to some of our competitors.
And that along with the category dynamics are driving us to where we think we need to make changes.
And I would tell you that it's a combination of investment in technology but also in our process and just how we're going about our business and certainly to your point our approach to multichannel versus a separate channel and how we're looking at the overall strategy by business and how that plays out online I think will strengthen our ability to sell product there.
But a large investment will happen in technology to make us faster and smoother and easier for the guests to navigate.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups on that.
In terms of the technology investment cycle at what point do you feel like you'll be kind of through that and from that point forward sort of leveraging that new tech investment? And then also in terms of the merchandising staffing will you maintain separate staffs separate merchandising groups going forward for those? Or will you look to more kind of integration between channels going forward? I'm not -- I don't know that I can tell you about the tech investment of when we will leverage that.
We are investing heavily now and see that we will into the future.
It's a key part of our business not only the product that's sold online but of course all of the sales in stores that are influenced by the research that's done online.
So it's a key part of our business that we will invest in for a very long time.
In terms of the staffing I don't know that we've made a decision specifically on what will be separate and what will be together but we work together on setting the strategy for each category.
And then we do have separate buying teams today although they are ever-increasingly working more closely together as the channels kind of merge and complement each other.
So I think in terms of what that looks like that's something we will assess for a very long time but I don't see any big changes in the short term.
We are adding to that team that's probably the biggest change and we have been now for quite some time as it's been growing.
I'd just add: I think over time we'll likely end up in some kind of a hybrid of where we are today.
We've had separate and distinct teams.
We have co-located and done some integrations both in terms of the strategy and the physical placements of our team.
And I -- we think over time that we'll continue along those lines although it's unlikely that everything would be integrated together.
So there will be some teams that are co-located and are very very integrated physically strategically and there will be other parts that will remain a little bit more separate although as Kathy said we take one approach to the business one strategy and then it's just how we execute that across both the physical and the online space.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just one other final question on Canada.
In terms of the kind of market research or consumer testing you're doing in that market leading up to your opening I mean it seems that you have some opportunities in that market that would certainly be very distinct from the U.S.
where you could index potentially very high relative to your average in potentially Apparel and other discretionary categories.
Just curious about that process how you're preparing for those potential differences.
Well you're right.
We do believe that's a whitespace opportunity for us.
And we've done a lot of research a lot of different kinds of research and there's no one aspect that leads to any one conclusion.
We continue to listen and learn and get close to the Canadian consumer.
Many of them are very familiar with the brand either shop in our stores or they are current REDcard product holders so there's a high familiarity of the Target brand.
And they're looking for the Target experience.
They really want the full-blown Target brand experience as we come to get Canada.
So that first and foremost is our -- our priority is to deliver a great Target experience across all categories great service great team engagement.
And then because there is -- what we believe is some whitespace in Apparel and Home we're going to go after those businesses and we'll look to over-index and over -- or invest a little bit more heavily in the space and some of the physical assets so that we can take advantage of what we believe is going to be a great opportunity for us to deliver our Expect More.
Pay Less.
strategy in those categories.
So we would agree with you on that.
Your next question comes from the line of John Zolidis with Buckingham Research.
Two quick questions.
I guess one of them is a follow-up on the question about Canada.
If you could look back to when you decided initially to go into Canada compared to today what changes do you see in the competitive environment over that period? And does that at all change your outlook? That's question number one.
And then second can you just give us an update on the cross-shopping of multiple areas within the store for guests who've signed up for the 5% Rewards card? Are the -- is the basket for that customer -- you mentioned it increased.
Does it represent all areas of the store? Or is it concentrated in any particular area of the store? Looking back on Canada at this point in time we don't see anything that we would do differently.
I mean the -- it's really the Canadian consumer that's going to benefit by our entry.
We're -- we hope to become their favorite store as we enter into that.
But clearly all of the Canadian competitors are anticipating our arrival as well as the Canadian consumers and so they are improving their value proposition they're investing in their asset base they're improving their experience.
And ultimately that is just going to better serve the Canadian market.
We hope to launch very successfully and wow them with our content value proposition speed of service and all the wonderful things that we do Target here in the U.S.
We look to do that in Canada as well.
And ultimately the Canadians are going to have a far-superior shopping experience across all channels due to our entry.
But there really isn't anything that we look back in hindsight and say "Hey we would do anything different " at this point in time.
Right.
And on the 5% Rewards basket question.
We see a basket in the incremental lift that is very very similar to the baskets of that guest prior to their experience.
There's a very very small mix impacting gross margin but it is insignificant relative to our gross margin or the performance of the 5% Rewards program.
Thank you.
That concludes Target's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation's Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded August 15 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President Merchandising; and John Mulligan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I'll provide a high-level summary of our second quarter results and strategic priorities for the rest of the year and beyond.
Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally John will provide more detail on our second quarter financial performance along with our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Following John's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP results is included in this morning's press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
We're very pleased with our second quarter financial performance.
Adjusted earnings per share were $1.12 in the second quarter near the upper end of the guidance provided in our first quarter conference call.
Second quarter GAAP earnings per share were $1.06 up 3.4% from a year ago.
This performance reflects superior execution across each of our business segments combined with the beneficial impact of the resolution of income tax matters.
In our U.S.
Retail segment comparable store sales increased 3.1% marking our 11th consecutive quarter of positive comps.
Sales were right in line with our expectation going into the quarter and right on the pace outlined in our long-range financial plan.
This sales performance reflects the impact of 2 transformative initiatives designed to drive sales traffic and loyalty in our U.S.
Retail business: 5% REDcard Rewards and our store remodel program.
These programs are at the core of a retail strategy designed to deliver convenience and value in an environment where consumers are hungry for both.
They are generating sales and profits that help support our long-range financial plan in an environment where companies across many sectors are struggling to grow.
These programs are designed to drive sales while putting moderate pressure on our gross margin rate which we offset through productivity improvements and expense leverage on the incremental sales.
We are now in the third year of our remodel program and approaching the 2-year mark since the nationwide launch of 5% Rewards.
In the period since the rollout of both initiatives the financial performance in our U.S.
Retail segment demonstrates our ability to manage each of these levers effectively.
We've driven billions of dollars of incremental sales while maintaining our Retail profit margins.
And just as importantly as a result of these programs our store base is fresher and more relevant than ever and our guests have developed a deeper loyalty to Target.
Our Credit Card portfolio which serves as the platform for 5% REDcard Rewards continues to generate outstanding profitability while providing a strategic complement to our Retail segment.
We expect to maintain this deep integration of our Retail and Credit Card strategies regardless of who owns the receivables portfolio over time.
John will update you on our efforts to sell the portfolio in a few minutes.
In our Canadian segment we're on pace to begin opening stores in spring of 2013.
We've already begun renovations on 7 former Zellers stores and we'll start work on 38 more in the third quarter.
For the remainder of the year we will continue to build technology and supply chain infrastructure and continue to build out our Canadian team.
We frequently hear from our new Canadian neighbors that they can't wait for our stores to finally open and our Target Canada team is highly focused on exceeding their expectations when we open next year.
It's now been more than a year since we first laid out our long-range financial plan to deliver $100 billion or more in sales and $8 or more in earnings per share by 2017.
At that time the U.S.
unemployment rate was 9% and most of us would have hoped and expected that it would have improved well beyond the 8.3% rate reported in July.
Yet despite the sluggish recovery our financial performance has remained strong quarter-after-quarter and we're on track to deliver our long-term financial plan.
This is a testament to our well-defined strategy and superior execution by our incredibly talented Target team a team that is passionately committed to our guests and our brand.
As we look ahead we are mindful of the continued economic challenges facing many of our guests huge deficits at the state and national level and the fiscal cliff facing everyone at the end of the year.
This fall's presidential election will likely produce an avalanche of negative ads and elevate the uncertainty caused by potential policy changes that could follow the November vote.
Against these pressures we believe that our value proposition and shopping experience will deliver continued market share gains.
We believe our guests will continue to be both cautious and resilient shopping and spending at Target in disciplined ways.
As a result we continue to plan our business appropriately and prepare our teams to chase business when demand accelerates unexpectedly like we experienced in the first quarter.
We believe this approach is the best way to balance both risk and opportunity and our results through the first 6 months of the year demonstrates its effectiveness.
Beyond tactics to optimize our near-term performance we remain focused on thoughtful investment of resources to ensure we're positioned for success over time.
By the end of the year we'll have more than 1 100 of our general merchandise stores will reflect an expanded food offering combined with other merchandise reinventions.
Over the next few years we plan to update the remaining 400 or so general merchandise locations preserving our brand and relevance in these markets while driving incremental traffic and sales.
Of course we continue to invest in new stores in the U.S.
when we find opportunities that meet our strategic and financial criteria.
We opened 6 expanded food assortment stores in the second quarter adding 5 locations net of one store closed for relocation.
In addition to these new expanded food assortment stores we were very excited to open our first 3 CityTarget locations in late July in the dense urban centers of Seattle Los Angeles and Chicago.
We've been extremely pleased with the reception we've received from our new guests in neighborhoods around these first 3 stores and we expect to apply what we learned to our operations throughout the U.S.
and Canada over time.
Outside the physical store environment we're devoting meaningful resources and support of our multichannel efforts creating a solid foundation that will drive sales across all channels over time.
While sales outside our stores are a small percentage of our total sales today we expect our multichannel investments will drive robust growth in online and mobile sales over time.
At the same time we believe these efforts will drive additional traffic and sales through our physical store base as well.
Beyond our efforts to drive sales across channels we are leveraging social media to partner with guests in our efforts to strengthen communities.
On July 26 we launched a $5 million education giving campaign called Give With Target in which we invited our guests via Facebook to vote for their favorite schools and earn them up to $10 000 in Target gift cards.
To date approximately 2 million votes have been received for schools across the country.
There are still 3 weeks left in the campaign and already Give With Target has proven hugely successful in driving guest engagement.
Looking ahead we're excited about the compelling opportunity presented by our upcoming Canadian market launch.
Last month we announced our plan to open 125 Canadian Target stores in 2013.
Launching in the Canadian market with this kind of scale requires a significant effort from our team.
But importantly this scale will drive operating leverage and financial returns that we expect to meet or exceed our investment objectives.
I'm pleased that we're on track both financially and operationally.
And of course we'll continue to find new ways to inspire our guests driving traffic and sales across all our stores and digital channels.
We'll deliver exciting merchandise partnerships like The Shops and our upcoming holiday collaboration with Neiman Marcus.
We'll continue to develop compelling owned brands like C9 and our new home brand Threshold.
And we'll continue to explore ways to enhance our store experience through innovations in technology and service.
Our guests expect Target to deliver newness value and a great experience and we're committed to exceeding their expectations.
Finally we're very pleased with this morning's announcement that we have joined other leading retailers to form the Merchant Customer Exchange or MCX a unique and innovative effort to create a consumer-centric secure mobile payment solution that will be connected across multiple retail environments.
We've joined this one-of-a-kind effort in recognition of the significant potential we see in mobile payments and our desire to achieve a robust and cost-efficient solution.
This effort in the mobile space presents a balanced market-driven approach to the future of payments.
We are very pleased with the health of our business today and the steps we're taking to drive long-term performance.
We are continually mindful of the challenges posed by the economic and competitive environment and we're confident that we have the right strategy and team in place to continue to grow profitably.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on second quarter results share recent guest insights and outline initiatives for the second quarter and beyond.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
We were very pleased with both the pace and the mix of our second quarter sales.
As expected less discretionary categories like food health and beauty continue to lead the way.
These categories have been growing faster than overall sales for more than a decade.
But they've become even more important in an economy where budget-conscious consumers are more consistently focused on needs than wants.
Guests prefer our shopping experience.
And as we enhance our assortments to include more items on their weekly shopping list they happily choose to visit us more often.
Our 5% Rewards loyalty program further deepens this relationship since it allows our guests to save even more off our everyday low prices.
In more discretionary categories Apparel had another great quarter with growth just short of overall sales.
While strength was broad-based performance was strongest in women's and men's apparel along with Performance Activewear.
In Hardlines entertainment had the strongest second quarter performance driven by growth in books.
This team has done a great job driving sales by delivering a carefully edited assortment focused on the needs of our core guests.
In addition second quarter sales in this category benefited from a set of new releases that drove excitement and traffic to this area of the store.
Electronics had another soft quarter as this category continues to reflect mature product cycles in several categories.
Most notably for us is video game hardware and software a category in which we over-index because of the demographics of our core guest.
Within Home we saw our best results in domestics and seasonal categories with softness in our decorative categories and lawn and patio.
As Gregg has already mentioned we planned our business appropriately in this environment positioning our buyers to be nimble and chase business when the opportunity arises.
Given the current pace of our sales and plans going forward we feel great about our inventory and in-stock position as we enter the fall season.
We continue to find ways to control inventory growth without reducing in-stocks and hampering sales.
Two notable examples helped to drive quarter-end inventory lower than a year ago.
First we successfully partnered with our toy vendors to move early holiday receipts out of the second quarter and into the third quarter while preserving overall profitability.
Second we've rolled out a new pharmacy receipt process which has reduced our inventory investment while maintaining reliability.
Longer-term we continue to succeed in moving a portion of our base inventory out of our distribution centers and store backrooms and onto our sales floors.
This is a huge win because it puts more of our inventory in front of our guests where they can see and buy it while enhancing the efficiency of our DCs and backrooms.
At Target.com we continue to make meaningful progress in improving the site experience.
Since the launch of our new platform a year ago we've been keenly focused on enhancing site stability and speed and our guests have noticed.
In our July survey guest satisfaction with site performance had returned to prelaunch levels.
And while we're very pleased with this progress we're committed to delivering even more improvement.
Prior to the holiday season we’ll implement the changes focused on the shopability of the site namely search navigation and speed of checkout.
We believe these improvements will create a solid foundation for our site and set the stage for additional enhancements next year.
As we expected year-to-date online sales have been running about flat far short of the growth we expect to see over time.
As we focus on the integration of our store online and mobile channels into a seamless guest experience we will measure success based on total market share growth with guests determining the optimal mix of sales between our stores online and mobile channels.
As you know consumers are rapidly moving into the mobile channel and we're happy with our results in this space.
So far this year our mobile traffic is running more than double last year and sales are up nearly 3x.
In addition our mobile site was recently named among the top 10 best by Nielsen.
And earlier this year our iPhone app won a Webby Award for the third consecutive year.
As we look ahead to the third quarter and the remainder of 2012 we're excited about our plans to inspire our guests while providing them unbeatable value.
We're about to enter the heart of the Back-to-School Back-to-College shopping season and early results so far have been positive.
In Back-to-School we're focused on making it fast and easy for parents to find everything they need all at unbeatable prices.
In Back-to-College we're rolling out fun and innovative programs like our uStyler an online shoppable resource that allows students to design their dorm room look and share it on social media networks.
Also new this year is our tongue-in-cheek college scholarship program allowing students to enter to win a variety of fun and useful college essentials like a year's supply of ramen noodles or enough flip-flops to outfit an entire dorm floor.
Earlier next month we'll roll out our next installment of The Shops At Target.
This installment is focused on Home and Apparel.
And we've partnered with 4 distinctive boutiques to co-create exclusive collections our guests will love.
Prices across the 4 collections will range from $3 to $120.
In Home in October we're very excited to launch the Nate Berkus collection an exclusive assortment from this influential and well-respected interior designer.
This collection will feature 150 home products that are stylish inspirational and affordable with prices ranging from $6 to $150.
Also this quarter in Home we'll begin to roll out our new brand Threshold with a small assortment of entertaining essentials accents and decorative accessories.
Our goal was to create a new brand with a clear point of view which meets our guests' expectation for style quality and value.
We expect to complete the rollout of this brand across all of our Home categories by summer 2013.
In entertainment we're excited about our upcoming partnership with P!nk in which we will offer a Deluxe Edition of her highly anticipated sixth studio album The Truth About Love on September 18.
This Target-exclusive Deluxe Edition will offer fans an additional 4 studio tracks.
And in just a few days we'll be celebrating the release of The Hunger Games on DVD and Blu-ray by offering an exclusive 3-disc version of the film as an extensive assortment of additional merchandise ranging from backpacks and lunch boxes to jewelry and pillowcases.
In conjunction with the DVD release we'll offer a set of exclusive high-end collectibles for devoted Hunger Games fans in very limited quantities exclusively on Target.com.
As Gregg mentioned we just opened our first 3 CityTarget locations in late July and so far the guest response has been outstanding.
In October we plan to open another 2 CityTargets one each in Los Angeles and San Francisco.
As a result of a unique real estate opportunity in San Francisco we plan to open a stand-alone store C9 Active Apparel next to the new CityTarget location.
This small space gives us an opportunity to highlight this exclusive brand in a unique way that complements San Francisco's active lifestyle.
Pharmacy continues to be one of our fastest-growing businesses.
This Sunday we'll begin offering flu shots at all of our pharmacy locations across the country at the affordable price of $28.
This year we're offering flu shots with an intradermal needle that's 90% smaller than the traditional one.
Providing flu shots is one example of the service our pharmacists can provide.
Beyond our pharmacies we believe service will increasingly become a point of differentiation in other merchandise areas.
For example Beauty is already one of our most profitable growth categories.
Its sales have been growing faster than the total company for many years and it generates above-average gross margin rates.
Yet we believe enhanced service has the potential to elevate Beauty as a destination in our stores.
As a result we recently launched a Beauty service test in 28 Chicago area stores in which highly trained team members will provide friendly guidance and expertise for our Beauty guests.
While the test is in the early stages if it's successful we believe this concept could be rolled out to several hundred stores over time.
Over the last few years in Electronics we've increased service with our Bullseye Mobile concept TV delivery and installation and our tech support solution 1-877-myTGTech.
Most recently we announced a pilot partnership with Geek Squad which we'll launch in October in 28 stores in Denver and Minneapolis.
In these stores Geek Squad will offer their full in-store and at-home installation and maintenance services in addition to a 24-hour service hotline and online support.
We plan to evaluate results in these pilot stores for 6 to 8 months after which we will determine next steps.
And although we'll have much more to say in our next call I wanted to briefly highlight our upcoming holiday collaboration with Neiman Marcus.
The product from these designers is absolutely fantastic.
And we believe this program is perfectly timed to inspire our guests creating excitement at both Target and Neiman Marcus during the heart of the holiday season.
We are very pleased with our results in the first half of 2012 and we're excited about our plans for the remainder of the year.
We'll continue to focus on delivering fashionable well-designed merchandise at great prices delivering on both sides of our Expect More.
Pay Less.
brand promise.
Now John will share his insights on our second quarter performance and outlook going forward.
John? Thanks Kathy.
Six months ago we made out a set of 2012 expectations that fully supported our long-range financial plan and we're pleased that through the first half of this year we've delivered performance somewhat stronger than expected.
Our second quarter adjusted EPS of $1.12 is near the high end of our guidance driven by U.S.
Retail segment performance in line with our forecast and another great quarter of stronger-than-expected performance in our U.S.
Credit Card segment.
The difference between our second quarter adjusted EPS and GAAP EPS of $1.06 was narrower than anticipated due primarily to a $0.03 benefit from the favorable resolution of income tax matters.
In our U.S.
Retail segment comparable store sales growth of 3.1% was right on plan driven by a 0.7% increase in comparable store transactions combined with a 2.4% increase in average ticket.
Both our sales and traffic reflect the success of our remodel and 5% Rewards programs which are helping to drive healthy levels of growth in an environment that's not providing a natural tailwind.
Second quarter EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were consistent with both our expectations and last year's performance.
As intended our gross margin rate was below a year ago reflecting the impact of our sales-driving initiatives partially offset by rate improvement within categories.
Also as intended we benefited from store productivity improvements and disciplined expense control across the enterprise driving leverage on our SG&amp;A expenses for the quarter.
As we've said for many years we continue to focus on driving sales while maintaining our U.S.
Retail operating margins over time.
And once again our actual performance has supported that goal.
Also very importantly our stores' organization is driving meaningful productivity improvements without compromising our service or brand standards.
Penetration of sales on our Target-branded credit and debit cards was 12.8% in the quarter up more than 4 percentage points from a year ago.
Before the launch of this loyalty program penetration was around 5% and headed lower.
In less than 2 years we've not only reversed this trend but today our penetration is higher than it's ever been in our history.
Importantly trends at the household level have not changed.
Regardless of whether guests choose a credit or debit card we see average incremental spending of more than 50%.
And in the Kansas City market which launched this program a year earlier penetration continues to outpace the rest of the country by hundreds of basis points.
Given that the nationwide rollout has closely followed our experience in Kansas City continued growth in that market provides all of us a clear roadmap for where nationwide penetration will likely be a year from now.
In our U.S.
Credit Card segment we continue to benefit from outstanding underlying performance combined with the benefit of stronger-than-expected risk metrics and corresponding reserve releases.
As expected the portfolio stayed around $5.9 billion during the quarter down about $300 million from a year ago reflecting the slow runoff of higher-balance Visa accounts partially offset by new proprietary card accounts with lower balances and higher payment rates.
Delinquency and write-off rates continue to outperform our expectations allowing the reserve to decline faster than the receivables base.
Altogether second quarter portfolio spread to LIBOR was 9.5% or $140 million compared with 12% or $186 million a year ago.
As you recall risks were declining even more rapidly a year ago driving an $85 million reserve reduction in second quarter 2011 compared with a $30 million reduction this year.
In our Canadian segment we recorded $47 million of SG&amp;A expenses in the second quarter driven by investments in technology supply chain and the team.
These expenses combined with $22 million of depreciation and amortization and $19 million of cap lease interest recorded outside the segment drove $0.09 of EPS dilution in the quarter $0.01 better than expected.
As Gregg mentioned the Target Canada team is on track both operationally and financially to open 125 stores in 2013.
Our priorities for the use of capital remain the same.
We intend to invest appropriately in our core businesses on projects that meet our strategic and financial criteria and we intend to continue growing the dividend annually as we have for 40 consecutive years.
Beyond those uses we intend to use cash to repurchase shares on a pace that preserves our current strong investment-grade credit ratings.
While we continue to invest a significant amount of capital in our U.S.
and Canada segments we were able to return about $0.75 billion to our shareholders in the second quarter.
We paid $198 million in dividends.
And in June we were pleased to announce that our board had raised the quarterly dividend 20% from $0.30 to $0.36.
Also during the quarter we invested $549 million in share repurchase.
Through the first 6 months of the year we have invested $1.15 billion to repurchase just over 20 million shares an amount representing 3% of shares outstanding at the beginning of the year.
And like many others during the quarter we took advantage of this low-rate environment and issued $1.5 billion of 30-year fixed-rate debt.
The 4% coupon on this issue is by far the lowest we've ever paid on 30-year debt.
Before I turn to our outlook I'd like to provide a brief update on our efforts to sell our Credit Card receivables portfolio.
We have entered into discussions with several well-qualified partners and we're pleased with their level of interest in our discussion so far.
As we've said previously we remain committed to selling these assets to the right partner on appropriate terms and believe that objective is achievable by late this fiscal year or early next year.
Importantly as Gregg mentioned regardless of who ultimately owns the assets we expect to maintain the deep integration that our teams have achieved in our Retail and Credit Card strategies over time.
Now let's turn to our outlook for the third quarter and remainder of the year.
In our U.S.
Retail segment we expect to generate comparable store sales in the range of 3% consistent with our second quarter performance.
So far in August we are on track to deliver on that expectation for the quarter.
Given last year's unusually strong profit performance we expect third quarter EBITDA and EBIT margin rates will be down slightly from a year ago.
This was our expectation as we planned the year meaning that we continue to believe our full year Retail operating margins will be in line with last year's performance.
In the U.S.
Credit Card segment we expect the receivables portfolio will end the third quarter about $300 million below last year or about $100 million below where we are today.
We expect risk levels will begin to stabilize at historically low levels meaning the reserve as a percent of receivables should begin to stabilize as well.
This leads to an expected third quarter spread to LIBOR in the range of 7% to 8%.
While this is outstanding absolute performance we have 1 more quarter in which we'll be comparing against last year's supercharged performance driven by reserve reductions namely a $48 million reserve release in third quarter 2011.
Altogether this means we expect segment profit dollars will be down from last year.
In our Canada segment expenses will continue to grow as we continue to invest in the team technology and supply chain solutions for next year's launch.
For the third quarter we expect expenses related to our Canadian market launch will reduce EPS by approximately $0.14.
So putting this all together we expect adjusted EPS of $0.83 to $0.93 in third quarter and GAAP EPS of $0.69 to $0.79.
And for the year we've raised our expected range for adjusted EPS by $0.05 to $4.65 to $4.85 and we raised our GAAP EPS range by $0.10 to $4.20 to $4.40.
The difference between these ranges reflects our continued expectation for $0.50 of Canada dilution for the year offset by the benefit from the resolution of tax matters we recognized in the first 2 quarters of 2012.
Target continues to generate consistent strong financial performance and gain market share even in this choppy environment.
As we look ahead we're confident in our plans and our team's ability to execute on our strategy in a variety of economic conditions.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
We're pleased with our performance through the first half of the year and confident in our plans for the rest of 2012.
With a well-defined strategic plan and an unbeatable team we expect to continue to gain market share in 2012 and beyond.
That concludes today's prepared remarks.
Now Kathy John and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
First Gregg you mentioned this new merchant exchange program.
Could you take it a little bit further as to what the real goal there and how big you could expect that to be as part of your tender going forward if you think out over the next few years? Well I think the release was very self-explanatory today and we really don't want to get into too much future speculation.
We're very excited about it.
It's early stages.
It has $1 trillion-plus in terms of the retailers that were cited in that announcement.
And we really believe that the objective is to deliver a better experience lower cost great convenience in a very secure environment.
And we'll be willing to share a lot more as time goes on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
So then -- and Kathy you gave us a lot of detail of what's coming.
And I'd love to have a little bit more in terms of what impacted the margin this quarter.
I mean gross margin's down a little bit but actually a nice performance given REDcard and PFresh.
I mean can you call out some things that maybe helped the margin? Or do you think it was -- just what was sort of helping and hurting there in terms of detail? Well I would tell you it's really a continuation Greg of what we've been doing for quite some time.
So the pressure of course is due to our 5% REDcard loyalty program as well as PFresh.
We've continued to offset some of that by achieving rate improvements within categories.
And so that's a variety of things that we've been doing for a long time.
I think the biggest chunks of that for this quarter freight helped a little bit and our great inventory position and markdown control helped a bit which drove us to these results.
Research Division</strong> Did you get some deflation in terms of raws in cotton and others in Apparel? There was a little bit.
I would tell you though overall really it's just flattened out.
And so we haven't seen what -- with pricing of cotton going down there's been offsets and labor going up and a lot of moving parts.
But I would tell you it's basically flat.
I think going...
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to see now that we're getting closer to the Canada launch how you think the assortment is shaking out and where your heaviest bets are being made there.
Well we are right now in the assortment planning process.
I would tell you we're right in the heat of that battle.
So we've been very thoughtful.
We know from all of our research that the Canadians have said all along they want the full Target retail experience.
And so our goal going in is to deliver as much as -- of that experience as we possibly can.
The stores are slightly smaller so we know that there's going to have to be some editing.
We have learned a lot from our 3 assortment optimization tests.
We're learning a lot from CityTarget.
So we think we'll be able to optimize and edit the assortment that we would typically have here.
We also know that we have to customize our assortment for the local communities there.
So the first round of openings is in the Greater Toronto Area.
We've done a lot of research up there to make sure that we're delivering the kinds of merchandise that those guests would expect to find in their local trade area.
So we've got a lot going on right now and really the merchandising organization is in -- is really going through all of the assortment planning process with our vendors and doing the edits creating the planograms.
And we're right in the middle of that and we're right on track.
Research Division</strong> And for Kathy the e-commerce why is the comp only running flat? It seems like if the functionality is back to the prelaunch levels we should be seeing some better performance there.
And do you think it's just an ongoing lag because of the prior performance problems? Well first of all the number I quoted was for the spring season being flat for the spring season.
And we've made progress on our platform throughout the spring season.
They weren’t all there from the very start.
So we have had several releases this spring and we will continue to have several more releases before we lock it down for the holiday season.
So yes they have been meaningful.
The number that I quoted was our guest research that said the usability of the site is back to the level that it was pre-Everest.
But we think we can and will do even better than that.
And our future launches will really stay focused on those areas that I mentioned search and findability and the checkout experience and making sure that we enhance those even further.
Research Division</strong> And for benchmarking I would think you'd compare against other e-commerce players rather than just your overall comp right? Absolutely.
And as Kathy said the visits to the site are up dramatically.
We’re seeing really really good traffic.
Our speed is outstanding.
Stability has been outstanding.
We're still really working on the conversion.
And so those are the things that Kathy is talking about in terms of the navigation and some of the things that we really want to do to make sure that once they get to the site that they get through they find what they want faster fewer clicks better checkout experience.
And those are the priorities going forward.
But the very very encouraging aspect is we are getting really good visitations and traffic to our sites.
So they like it.
There's just still a little bit of that frustration getting through and finding what they want.
And we're working really hard on the search and navigation.
We'll get that fixed in the near-term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly for John gross margins.
As you lap the cotton price increases in the second half of last year is there an opportunity for the margins to be up there? Or what are your thoughts? Yes.
I think first I'd step back to the broader picture with what I said.
We expect EBITDA and EBIT margin rates down to last year given how strong the performance was in third quarter last year.
And that applies to both when you go to the next level of both gross margin rate and SG&amp;A.
So the merchant team last year as we saw those cost increases did an outstanding job managing our gross margin rates either through changing product or through cost increases.
So we didn't see a dramatic impact last year.
And so as we cycle against that we don't expect to see that here either.
I think the biggest driver of gross margin rate in third quarter will continue to be PFresh and 5% Rewards year-over-year.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the REDcard.
I think it was about a 410-basis-point increase in penetration.
And you said you're continuing to see 50% incremental sales there.
Is Kansas City -- you said hundreds of basis points.
Is it kind of lapping and running up a similar 400 basis points? And how long would you expect that trajectory to continue? And it looks like you've kind of stepped on the marketing a little bit.
Is that having any kind of an impact as well? Yes.
I think Kansas City is up several hundred basis points against being up several hundred basis points last year.
So it is lapping against that.
And it is in the same range.
The range of growth there is very similar.
Kansas City we expect probably sometime next year to be -- to reach 20% penetration.
And to your question about how high is high if you'd asked us that question a year ago we probably would have said our goal is probably in the neighborhood of 20%.
And obviously we feel pretty confident about hitting that.
So I don't know where the end game is.
But to your point we're continuing to increase the marketing to our guests.
And of course it takes several times perhaps for guests to actually listen to us.
But we think there continues to be a significant amount of upside to our penetration and therefore incremental sales and profits related to 5% Rewards.
It's such a compelling program that word-of-mouth continues to be very strong.
Our team -- our stores' team is doing a really really great job of communicating this.
3/4 of the new apps are on the debit side and it's immediate it's powerful it's 5%.
There's no gimmicks.
It’s very simple.
And it just takes a little bit of time.
And once the guests figure that out it's like "Wow I get to save 5% every time I come to Target." So over time they've been embracing this program so we don't know how high high is.
We're going to continue to find innovative ways to reach our guests to communicate the value to try new things in marketing new things in store to try and keep it fresh and innovative so that we can continue to build upon the penetration levels that we have today.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And are they -- is the marginal cardholder of similar credit quality characteristics and the applicant to card approval rate similar as well? Yes.
Actually what has been remarkable is that the -- for the cards issued under 5% Rewards the credit quality has been much higher than in our existing portfolio than we experienced historically.
So the individuals that are drawn to that credit product as Gregg said it's a very compelling offer they tend to have much higher credit quality overall.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess John my question is as you're getting further and further in penetration is there any difference between say the cardholder applying now versus 2 years ago? Nothing meaningful Mark (sic) [Colin].
It continues to trend at a very high level.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question just back on dot-com.
Obviously a nice increase in traffic and it sounds like the technology's coming.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're doing maybe from an assortment perspective and a pricing perspective to try to drive that conversion? Because it feels like maybe there's some opportunity there.
Yes.
I would tell you the biggest part about the assortment is really making sure that what we carry in a Target store is also carried online.
So these are products that guests expect us to have.
There's a lot of things that we can have in extended colors or sizes online that we haven't necessarily in the past.
And so we've been working really diligently through all of our different categories with a particular focus right now in Apparel and Home to make sure that we're representing all of our store assortments online.
And then where we deem it appropriate add in different color print and pattern that sort of thing before we start extending the store into new categories.
So I would say great progress the team has made so far still a lot of work to do and we will continue on that road.
And in terms of pricing we continue to monitor our pricing against the marketplace and make what we think are the right decisions to be profitable yet competitive.
Your next question comes from the line of Wayne Hood with BMO Capital.
Yes.
Gregg or Kathy just coming back to that question about 5% loyalty program -- or 5% Reward program here in the U.S.
and you think about extending that into Canada.
How -- as you go into that market and you think about 5% Rewards or 5% loyalty do you think that's enough up there given the plethora of loyalty programs and the lower credit penetration up there? Is it going to require you to have to think outside the box of the U.S.
around loyalty programs in Canada? And then I had a costing question related to that market as well.
Well you're right.
The Canadian market it has far greater numbers of loyalty programs that are more established.
We believe that our 5% program is going to be sufficient when you wrap it in all the other great things that come along with a Target store.
So we know that it will be a little bit more challenging environment but we really are working hard on making sure that the investment we're making in these stores and the experience that we are putting in and the product assortment and the service elements the combination of all those things will enable us to achieve similar patterns of penetration that we've achieved here.
And if we don't -- if we need to do more as time goes on we'll look at that.
But going in we know that we're going to have to inspire the guests.
It's going to be a little bit more challenging.
But many of them are familiar with the REDcard Rewards in the United States because so many travel here.
So there's a high familiarity of the REDcard.
30 000 of our Canadian guests already have a REDcard product in the United States.
So we think it's going to be as successful there as it is here.
And Kathy I guess when you think about costing up there there's product categories around footwear where it's going to be higher tariffs and so on.
I mean how do you think about that your pricing in the marketplace given some of those tariffs? And then as they look across the border in the U.S.
and see higher pricing how do you get around that discrepancy? And do you have enough scale to where in things like footwear you can take advantage of that? Well the pricing definitely will be competitive to the Canadian market Wayne not necessarily the U.S.
market.
So we've already started doing a lot of pricing work up there to determine where we think the retails will fall.
And then as we're getting through the assortment process and as you said working through the different tariffs by category and all the different costs we will land on the right retail appropriate for that marketplace.
But the work that we've done so far leads us to believe that with our sourcing team and our mix we'll be able to do just fine in terms of being competitive and yet having our costing be reasonable.
It is different than the U.S.
but it's not an insurmountable challenge by any means.
And I do think there's some leverage certainly from our design team here in the U.S.
and how we design that product.
And a lot of it -- of the Canadian designs will come from what we're choosing in the U.S.
They will be manufactured specifically for Canada.
But we will leverage our design team and our sourcing expertise.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Carroll with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one drilling down a little bit more on REDcard.
Now that the penetration rates are so high and continuing to grow is there anything you can give us more clarity on what the mix is like within that within those REDcard sales? I mean does it exactly mirror the corporate averages? Or are there any categories that over-index within there? There is a -- this is John.
There is a slight slight over-index in like Food and commodities categories.
But the mix impact on our gross margin rates is at a level such that it's insignificant relative to everything else going on in gross margin.
So I would say overall the basket looks remarkably like the other baskets.
And this is pure frequency more trips driving the results.
And the impact on gross margin is 98% driven by the 5% discount and maybe 2% mix impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gregg at the start of the year you talked about a front-loaded year where comps would be better and you had I guess lower hopes for the fourth quarter.
You've obviously been delivering exactly that with the 3% comp plan for the year.
You've been well above that year-to-date.
And it sounds like third quarter is very much in line.
At least that's where it's starting.
So maybe revisit that notion how you're thinking about the fourth quarter and given the momentum that you're seeing in the business what if anything that changes how you're tackling the holiday season.
Well third quarter last year was our best quarter.
So this quarter we still believe that we're solidly on track but it will be the most challenging year-over-year.
Fourth quarter we’ve just witnessed over long periods of time the competitive intensity and the willingness by others to lose money run 70%-off sales and do things that we just think are not necessary to preserve our profitable business model.
So we're going to be super competitive.
We've got a great assortment lined up.
We've got innovative marketing.
We're really excited about our collaboration our unprecedented collaboration with Neiman's which will jump-start the holiday season in that post-2-day timeframe which has become basically just another week in the fall season.
So we are certainly going to go very very aggressively to get every and capture every sale we can.
But we're just not going to go into it with inventory levels that are going to put us at risk.
So we're going to be just a little bit leaner and we're going to be super aggressive and we want to balance the sales with the profitability side of the equation.
The other thing I'd add Adrianne relative to your question.
Certainly the first part of the year has been strong for us.
But as we look out into fourth quarter if anything there's more uncertainty now than there was when we started the year.
There's the presidential election the U.S.
economy Europe fiscal cliff.
There's plenty of things that create uncertainty for us.
And to Gregg's point we think continuing to manage the business from a conservative standpoint is appropriate for us going forward.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just following on that theme Gregg you talked about the inventory and conservativeness and Kathy talked a lot about flowing the inventory better to the shelves.
We've noticed that really inventory per store the down 2% this quarter.
You saw some improvement in the first quarter.
A pretty nice inflection this year so far versus in the past.
So maybe help us think about how you do plan to manage inventory going forward in the back half.
And is there a change in the mindset and just an improvement in flowing better to the shelves? Yes.
I'll take that one Adrianne.
There were really 2 big things that helped us improve the inventory and I spoke a little bit about that one.
The first one is working with our toy vendors where historically we've taken a lot more of our holiday product in the second quarter so very early in the year.
And in working with them we've been able to move that out into the third quarter while still preserving our profitability.
And so we think that's a big win and will not of course jeopardize in-stocks one bit.
The other big program is in with our pharmacy team.
And that's really around a new receipt process that we have where again it allows us to order and receive product much more efficiently and thereby not needing to carry as much inventory.
So again no impact on the guests but really enhancements to the way that we work.
So those are the 2 so far.
I would say as we look into the rest of the year I think we're always looking on how do we take more product out of the backroom and out of our DCs and get it on the floor.
We've done some of that this year.
We will continue to see if we can do more of that because of course it gets it in front of the guests where they can buy it and it makes us much more efficient in our stores and DCs.
But that's a smaller effect than the first 2 that I mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And then just my last question.
John you mentioned the uncertainty of where we are today higher than where we started the year.
Obviously there's been a lot of change and evolution on the competitive landscape.
JCPenney clearly seems to be continuing to tweak their pricing message.
And maybe help us Gregg or John Kathy weigh in in terms of where you see the competitive landscape how it's evolved this year and the state you would expect it to evolve to in the back half.
I think competitively -- we'll set aside JCPenney.
I think competitively we see it look a lot the same as it always has.
Walmart continues to be aggressive on price but they're always aggressive on price.
And we've seen that in Back-to-School.
As we've gone through the first opening part of Back-to-School they've been aggressive but consistent.
And we don't see them doing anything that we think is irrational from a pricing perspective.
And we've seen that broadly across-the-board very similar with the apparel retailers.
So we see everything competitively actually looks very similar to us.
And certainly JCPenney is struggling.
And I don't think that's having a meaningful impact on our overall business.
Certainly some areas we're picking up some business but nothing meaningful in the overall big picture of our business.
The one thing that I would add Adrianne is that we've been picking up share in Apparel for quite some time and we're continuing to pick up about the same.
So I don't think what Penney's is doing has that much impact on us right now.
I think the share pickup has just been delivering to our core guest the product that she is interested in.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I guess another question on the inflation front specifically for the holiday buy.
Can you talk about where the overall costing came in year-over-year? And I guess near-term is there anything you're beginning to hear from your food suppliers about potential price increases given some of the difficult weather conditions we've had across the U.S.? Certainly.
So for the fall I would tell you the biggest -- the place that we've seen the most decreases would be in soft home and that's offsetting the largest increases from a year ago.
So we saw the most there and we're seeing some decrease now.
But I would tell you it's call it the low single-digit range.
In Apparel there was some slight cost decrease.
But where we're seeing our sales play out has been not in -- core is strong for us but we've seen much more strength in sort of the must-have category better price points.
And we've been seeing this over the past year.
So as we move more product into that area that affects the mix of our goods a little bit.
So I think as we look at Apparel costing we'll be down just slightly.
Retail is about the same.
And in Home I think you'll see it down perhaps low single-digits.
Sean I'd add too if you look across the breadth of our categories at any given time there's inflationary pressures in some and deflationary pressures in others.
And our merchants work really hard on where we see inflationary pressures to manage that.
But across our entire business typically inflation has not had a meaningful impact on our business.
And then just to come back to your final question about Food.
Clearly with the drought we expect that that could have a negative impact on food prices.
Haven't seen that yet so I think that's probably still to come.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just secondly when you look across the real estate portfolio you guys have diversified nicely over the last couple of years here.
How do you see the sales performing within the different portfolios that you have out there the different doors? And can you talk about any cannibalization that you're having in terms of PFresh on Super Target with the enhanced food assortments and maybe how those respond after anniversary-ing the first year.
A lot of our -- this is Gregg.
A lot of our stores don’t -- they're not overlapping with the other stores so there isn't really any new cannibalization or anything.
And if you look at the performance of our PFresh stores have really led the company.
But our Super Target portfolio if that's what you were referring to is performing very well as well.
So we look at all of that there really isn't any cannibalization.
The PFresh continues to meet or exceed our expectations.
As a matter of fact we just opened another 106 stores in our July cycle and they're off to another fantastic start.
So we continue to be thrilled with the performance there.
And what we've typically seen doesn't mean we see it on every store is that we see somewhere in the 6% 7% in year 1 year 2 we get another lift year 3 we get a lift.
But we're getting a 10% lift overall.
This last cycle of stores I mean we're already close to that 8% 9% right out of the block.
So as we've gotten better and as time has gone on our assortment mix is better how we customize and reallocate assortments and space within the store has gotten better and the earlier performance is stronger than what we saw the first round 3 years ago.
Your next question comes from the line of John Zolidis with Buckingham Research.
Question on the traffic and ticket datum.
If you back out the impact of PFresh and 5% Rewards is there any kind of meaningful difference in the trends that you see there? And then I guess at what point do we start to see the benefit from these programs start to decelerate meaningfully? Well I would start with -- I don't think it's meaningful to back out the 5% Rewards and PFresh data from our traffic and ticket.
Those are the 2 strategies we are using to drive traffic in our stores today.
So that's why we report one comp sales and traffic the way we do so I don't think that makes sense.
As far as runway here on 5% Rewards we talked about this a little bit earlier John.
We think there's a long runway there.
We don't know how long.
But we think there's significant upside several years' worth of growth from where we are today.
And similarly in PFresh about 1/3 of our PFresh stores are in their second year 1/3 are in their first year.
We continue to put remodels in place this year.
So we think we have a lot of room there as we continue to grow traffic.
Those stores grow over a 3-year period.
They have incremental traffic and sales.
So we think there's a lot of runway left in PFresh as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> The CityTarget it's really amazing you're able to put that into the State Street location for example.
On the assortment a question on some of the changes you've made versus the traditional store.
I saw you eliminated footwear and patio kept automotive however.
But still very early but how close do you feel you are on what will ultimately be the right assortment for these type of locations? Mark we won't make any decisions for a good couple of months here because the numbers really move around a lot.
I would tell you on the whole we feel great about the stores.
The guest response has been really fantastic.
But it's still so very early that we will only be working on in-stocks and getting product in there.
We will not be working on changing the assortment for a few months here.
Research Division</strong> And so I recognize it's early and you have to see whether the ROI also proves out.
But as you've looked around the country how many potential locations if it does prove out for you could this be for Target? Well we haven't really put a pencil to that.
We just believe that there are a lot of urban locations where we can't put the full prototypical store due to the real estate constraints.
And more importantly this is about adapting our format to the geography where we have the right kind of demographics to serve our guests.
So give or take we think somewhere in the neighborhood -- and this is going to be a pretty wide range because we just don't know everything at this point.
It could be 75.
It could be a couple hundred.
But we'll know a lot more as time goes on.
But we're very pleased with the start the out-of-the-block response.
We especially like the mix that we're getting early on.
We're seeing very strong levels of sales in Apparel and Home which we think are just fantastic.
And that's Target's signature strength.
That's the Expect More side of the brand promise.
And that's really resonating in these urban markets so we're really excited about that.
Research Division</strong> Gregg if I could ask one… Okay real quick.
Research Division</strong> Okay on the e-commerce.
I know you've been experimenting with different basket sizes for free shipping.
And I was wondering if you think that's a factor in the conversion.
And particularly then when you look at the REDcard holders who have free shipping are you seeing a lot more transactions with that group online? We are seeing the REDcard guests shopping online.
They are our best guests and they tend to shop us very broadly so it's not really surprising that they would also be shopping online.
And certainly with their 5% discount and free shipping it's very appealing to them.
So yes they are very strong.
We're always analyzing the basket and how much that should be before we do free ship.
And I don't think that's a big part of conversion.
We're about on par with our competitors with the percentage of product that is free-shipped through various promotions.
I think more of our strategy is really focused on making sure that our site is very shoppable that the search capability is great that the way guests navigate and their ability to click through in the fewest amount of steps to be able to purchase is the most important thing to improving our results.
That concludes Target's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Target Corporation's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday November 15 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President Merchandising and Supply Chain; and John Mulligan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I'll provide an overview of our third quarter results and highlight some of our enterprise strategic priorities and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally John will provide more detail on our third quarter financial performance along with our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Following John's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP results is included in this morning's press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
We're very pleased with Target's third quarter financial performance which we announced earlier this morning.
Our U.S.
operations generated adjusted earnings per share of $0.90 above the midpoint of our guidance and 4.3% above last year's very strong performance.
Our third quarter GAAP earnings per share increased 17.6% to $0.96 as dilution related to our Canadian segment investments was more than offset by favorable tax items and a gain on the pending sale of our receivables portfolio.
Our U.S.
Retail segment generated third quarter comparable-store sales growth of 2.9% in line with our guidance going into the quarter.
And this segment generated an EBIT margin rate a bit ahead of expectations matching our very strong profit performance in the third quarter of 2011.
This profit performance reflects the continued benefit of thoughtful and disciplined expense management throughout the organization.
For the last 2 years we have relied on this discipline to offset gross margin rate investments we've made in our 2 most visible growth strategies: 5% REDcard Rewards and our PFresh remodel program.
I want to thank our team for reliably delivering on this expectation quarter after quarter successfully controlling expense growth while continuing to provide an outstanding experience for our guests.
We also remain focused on improving our online shopping experience which has resulted in robust growth in online sales and meaningful increases in guest satisfaction scores.
In addition as we further increase the functionality and ease-of-use of our award-winning mobile apps we continue to generate rapid growth in the mobile channel.
We've rolled out free in-store WiFi across the chain allowing guests to research products and use our apps while they're shopping in our stores.
And we'll continue to integrate digital features into our fourth quarter marketing incorporating QR codes in our store signing and marketing vehicles.
Looking ahead we will continue to invest meaningful resources to ensure our stores online and mobile platforms provide a seamless experience that allow our guests to engage with us wherever and whenever they choose.
We continue to be pleased with initial results from our newest format in the United States CityTarget.
After 2 additional third quarter openings we now have 5 CityTarget stores operating in 4 different metropolitan areas: Chicago Los Angeles San Francisco and Seattle.
As expected initial traffic to these stores have been strong while gross margin mix has been slightly better than expected.
The CityTarget team has done an outstanding job accomplishing a virtually flawless launch of this new format.
We plan to open 3 more CityTarget locations in 2013.
Our U.S.
Credit Card segment delivered another outstanding quarter with risks at historically low levels and profitability near historic highs.
In addition following extensive efforts we were very excited about this quarter's announcement of our agreement to sell our Credit Card portfolio to TD Bank Group accomplishing all of our goals for a sale including moving the assets off our balance sheet maintaining the deep integration between our Retail and Credit Card operations continuing to earn the majority of profits generated by this high-quality portfolio and importantly finding the right partner who will be aligned with our goals for portfolio growth and profitability.
We're pleased to be working with the outstanding management team at TD Bank and we look forward to closing this transaction in the first half of 2013.
In our Canadian segment we're moving forward in our efforts to open our first stores by next April.
We now have 45 stores under renovation and we have 1 distribution center operating and another one scheduled to come online soon.
And we are on track with implementation and testing for our Canadian segment technology platform.
Most importantly we continue to be very pleased with the quality of talent we are hiring for our Canadian team both at headquarters and for our stores organization who will serve as the primary ambassadors for the Target brand.
While there are many significant milestones to come we feel very good about our ability to open our first Canadian stores on time on budget and on brand.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter we feel very good about our ability to deliver inspiring merchandise most wanted gifts and unbeatable value while also generating expected profitability.
Our stores are ramping up their preparations to deliver a Target brand experience on Thanksgiving weekend delivering must-have items at incredible prices for an event which promises to be bigger than ever.
Following that weekend we will launch a series of merchandising and marketing plans designed to sustain excitement all the way to Christmas with our groundbreaking partnership with Neiman Marcus at the top of the list.
Kathy will provide more detail in a few minutes but with more than 2 billion media impressions already this event is clearly creating a lot of excitement.
While programs like Neiman Marcus event continue to elevate the Expect More side of our brand promise we know that it's crucial for Target to continue to combine differentiation with unbeatable value.
That's why we're very pleased to announce our new online price match and extended Holiday Price Match at our media event last month.
These programs are yet another way we work to assure our guests that they can feel good about shopping at Target.
The fact that we can offer these programs convey our confidence in Target's prices which are consistently low every day and even lower when we run a promotion.
These programs along with our ongoing price match guarantee and 5% Rewards allow our guests to shop at Target a store they love with the confidence that they're getting the very best deal.
And importantly price matching is fully integrated into our overall profit plan for the fourth quarter.
As you know every year we invest aggressively in price to provide value during the holiday season.
Our price matching programs complement our holiday promotional plan and we believe they are a smart way to invest in price to deliver compelling value for our guests.
While we continually look for ways to broaden our reach and appeal to a wider set of guests we believe our first and best opportunity lies in deepening our relationship with our core guests earning additional trips and spending from them.
A prime example is 5% REDcard Rewards which motivates our current guests to shop at Target much more often generating an average sales increase of more than 50% in households that begin using a REDcard.
This program turns less-engaged guests into some of our best guests and makes our best guests even more valuable.
We're on pace to add over 3 million credit and debit accounts this year creating a powerful platform to provide additional loyalty features.
For example last month we announced that in addition to saving 5% on every purchase in stores and at target.com and earning free shipping on all target.com purchases REDcard holders will now receive an extra 30 days to return their purchases if needed.
Guest response to 5% Rewards continue to exceed our expectations as penetration of sales on our cards rose to a record 14% in the third quarter.
This is nearly 3x the 5.5% penetration we experienced 2 years ago in the third quarter of 2010 when we launched the program nationwide.
Similarly our PFresh remodel program which launched in 2009 was a result of research with core guests who told us they would shop at Target more often if we provided them a more compelling food assortment including perishables.
The addition of a deeper food assortment gave us the opportunity to completely reinvent our general merchandise format transforming categories throughout the store in a visually compelling environment.
Today we operate 1 130 stores that have either been remodeled or newly built with this layout.
And our guests continue to tell us they love what we've done to their Target store.
Together 5% Rewards and our remodel program are making Target more relevant to our guests than ever creating an outstanding platform for future innovations in our merchandising and loyalty programs.
As I look across our business today I'm very pleased with our performance throughout the enterprise.
Our team is doing an outstanding job of balancing strategic innovation with day-to-day excellence in execution.
The team is aligned and motivated in support of our strategic roadmap and delivery of our long-range financial plan.
And as John will cover in more detail we're anticipating 2012 adjusted EPS that will keep us on track in the delivery of that long-range financial plan.
Before I turn the call over to Kathy I want to personally thank the thousands of Target team members in the Northeast who have worked tirelessly to help their local communities recover from Superstorm Sandy.
Our thoughts and prayers are with those whose lives were affected by this terrible storm.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on our third quarter results recent guest insights and provide more detail on initiatives for the fourth quarter and beyond.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
We are pleased with both the pace and mix of our third quarter sales.
As expected comps were strongest in less discretionary categories with particular strength in Food and Health &amp; Beauty.
In more discretionary categories comparable-store sales in Home led the way most notably in seasonal categories and Housewares.
Comps in Apparel were up slightly with the strongest results in Men's Apparel and Performance Activewear.
In Hardlines comps were down slightly overall with the strongest performance in Sporting Goods and the softest performance in Electronics which continued to reflect mature product cycles in several key categories.
Strengthen in Back-to-School and Back-to-College categories was a key driver of our third quarter sales results.
This year's comprehensive marketing campaigns drove guest awareness and our in-store navigation and signing streamlined and simplified shopping trips for our guests.
As Gregg mentioned we're very excited about initial results in our new CityTarget stores.
Traffic has been very strong and guest feedback has been overwhelmingly positive.
Initial research indicates that the typical guest in this new urban format is younger and more affluent than we see on average across the chain.
And as expected these stores are attracting many new guests.
We continue to make significant investments in our online and mobile platforms both to improve the performance of our existing site and mobile applications and to test and inform future opportunities.
Throughout the year our teams have been focused on ensuring site stability and enhancing our search and navigation capabilities.
More recently we've improved our speed of checkout order flow and fulfillment.
As a result our online guest survey scores are much higher than a year ago and our mobile apps continue to receive industry accolades.
And importantly we believe we are well prepared for the upcoming launch of the Target Neiman Marcus holiday collection and the peak traffic levels of the holiday season.
While we feel good about the progress we've made continuing to improve the guest experience remains a top priority for 2013.
In addition to the specific investments we're making in online and mobile channels we're also investing in ways to further integrate the shopping experience across channels.
For instance we recently installed new scanners at point of sale in all of our stores to make mobile coupon redemption smoother and faster than ever.
We are expanding our use of shoppable media incorporating QR codes and text-to-buy features.
And in October we launched an online debit and credit card application on target.com and saw an immediate meaningful increase in overall REDcard applications.
Our research with guests indicates they are continuing to shop with discipline focusing on lists and budgets and occasionally splurging on more discretionary items.
Notably in the third quarter we saw an increase in trips focused only on need-based items.
This guest feedback corresponds to overall consumer sentiment data showing that while consumers have increased confidence about their near-term prospects and personal finances they have a high level of uncertainty about the longer-term health of the economy and intend to continue saving and paying down debt.
For the holiday season consumers anticipate spending slightly more than last year but indicate they'll be focused on value pricing and promotions.
This data informs our outlook for the fourth quarter and next year.
We continue to position our inventory appropriately maintaining the flexibility to chase sales when we experience unexpected demand while simultaneously managing markdown risk.
Beyond this focus on order quantity for each season we continually work to find opportunities to reduce our inventory investment by optimizing our supply chain.
In fact while you'll note that our total inventory at the end of the third quarter was lower than last year more than 100% of that decline was due to a reduction in inventory outside our stores.
Levels of inventory located within our stores where it's available to be purchased by our guests were up slightly from a year ago at the end of the quarter.
Looking ahead we are confident in our holiday merchandising and marketing plans.
As always we expect the season to be highly competitive and promotional and we have the compelling assortments and exceptional value to make Target the top shopping destination for our guests.
In Toys we're focused on ensuring our guests know that Target has the best values especially on must-have items.
In store we've created QR codes for each of our top 20 Toys which allow guests to purchase items by scanning the codes on store shelves and having them shipped anywhere in the U.S.
for free.
Our annual toy catalog features more than 200 toys specially priced to give guests the best value on the toys kids really want.
Guests can browse the catalogue online and create a Target digital wish list that is instantly shareable via email.
And the target.com/toptoys page is the ultimate online destination for toy lovers of all ages.
This site contains links to more than 10 000 toys including more than 300 exclusives from Barbie Fisher-Price LEGO and Target-owned brands such as the Circo and Play Wonder.
In Music our exclusive partnerships ensure we've got something for everyone with albums in-store now from P!nk No Doubt Rod Stewart and Taylor Swift.
In fact our exclusive Taylor Swift album RED became our top-selling CD release of all-time.
And we're keeping the momentum in Music going with our partnership with the hot U.K.
pop group One Direction which we announced last month.
That album which just set earlier this week is already off to a very strong start.
We're also investing heavily in our Latin music business allocating more in-store space in key markets and partnering with legends like Emilio Estefan to curate our collection.
Our Target exclusive version of Tony Bennett's new Duets album which set a few weeks ago features the hottest artists in Latin music.
This year our merchandising and product design and development teams have created a multi-layered gifting strategy in categories across the store.
In Apparel we've rolled out gifting trees showcasing colorful product with lots of shimmer and shine.
In Home we've expanded our boxed gift program with amazing prices on unique items in beautiful boxes that are easy to wrap and give.
And we've transformed our See.
Spot.
Save.
area in the front of the store to a stocking stuffer destination.
And of course at the top of our gifting strategy we're thrilled about our unprecedented partnership with Neiman Marcus and 24 of the most influential and sought-after designers in the country.
This unique collection of 50 great gifts that are certain to wow our guests will set in stores December 1.
Like any limited time offer we expect these items to sell quickly particularly given the amazing media attention that we've already received as Gregg mentioned earlier.
Beyond this gifting strategy we're very pleased with results from our 2 newest brands in Home.
The Nate Berkus collection sold exclusively at Target has already been a hit with guests since setting late last month.
This signature Home collection features bedding bath accessories lighting rugs and window treatments.
This will be an ongoing collection with new items added to the assortment in 2013.
And we're pleased with the launch of our new owned-brand collection Threshold which offers guests a fully redesigned high-quality collection that will inspire and help update their homes.
The collection debuted this quarter with a small assortment of entertaining essentials accents and decorative accessories and will continue to roll out through spring 2013.
We are pleased with our third quarter performance and believe we are well positioned to give our guests a superior shopping experience and drive profitable growth in what will certainly be a highly promotional fourth quarter.
And as we look beyond this quarter in the holiday season we believe our merchandising and marketing strategies will continue to engage our guests strengthen their love of the brand and deliver strong financial results for Target.
Now John will share his insights on our third quarter performance and outlook going forward.
John? Thanks Kathy.
Even though we were cycling over our strongest quarterly performance in 2011 this year's third quarter results reflected strong profitable growth.
Retail sales were in line with our guidance and profitability was near the high end of our expectations with a superb execution across each of our business segments.
Specifically we generated third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.90 compared with an expected range of $0.83 to $0.93 going into the quarter.
Third quarter GAAP EPS was $0.96 reflecting $0.13 of dilution related to our Canadian segment offset by a $0.15 gain due to the pending sale of our Credit Card portfolio along with $0.04 of good news from a resolution of income tax matters.
In our U.S.
Retail segment comparable store sales increased 2.9% consistent with our guidance for the quarter.
This comp was slightly slower than our second quarter performance but on a 2-year basis our third quarter comp accelerated slightly.
Similar to last quarter comparable store sales were primarily driven by an increase in average ticket combined with a traffic increase of 0.5%.
Penetration of sales on our credit and debit cards was 14% in the third quarter up more than 400 basis points from a year ago.
As Gregg mentioned this program shows no signs of slowing down and continues to drive meaningful incremental traffic and sales.
Profitability in the U.S.
Retail segment was somewhat better than expected.
Our third quarter EBIT margin rate was flat to last year and our EBITDA margin rate was down only slightly even as we compared against very strong prior-year performance.
Recall that for the year our plan was to generally maintain our full year EBITDA and EBIT margins flat to last year.
And our results for the first 9 months show that we're right on track to meet that expectation.
Among the drivers of EBITDA margin third quarter gross margin rate was down a couple of tenths from a year ago as gross margin investments in 5% Rewards and higher frequency category mix from our PFresh remodel program were partially offset by rate improvements within categories.
Our merchandising team has done a great job managing margins within their individual businesses a key factor in delivering profitability in our U.S.
Retail segment.
Third quarter SG&amp;A rate was flat to a year ago reflecting continued expense discipline across the organization combined with the impact of higher expenses related to technology and multi-channel investments.
Our U.S.
Credit Card segment had another great quarter earning more than 9 percentage points above LIBOR.
Profit dollars were down slightly due to a 4.7% decline in average receivables and a more modest reserve release compared with third quarter 2011.
Importantly delinquencies and write-off rates continue to decline from what are already historically low levels.
In our Canadian segment we continue to invest in technology supply chain store renovations and the team as we prepare to open stores in spring of next year.
These activities led to $72 million of SG&amp;A expense in the third quarter which when combined with D&amp;A expense and interest expense associated with the segment reduced our third quarter GAAP EPS by $0.13.
Even as we engage in significant investments to launch our Canadian segment our operations are generating excess cash that we continue to return to our shareholders.
In the third quarter we paid dividends of $236 million and invested just over $100 million in share repurchase.
Through the first 3 quarters of 2012 we invested about $1.9 billion in dividends and share repurchase an amount representing more than 90% of our net income.
Our priorities for deployment of capital remain unchanged.
We invest in our core businesses on projects that fit our strategic and financial criteria.
We support the dividend and we engage in share repurchase with the goal of maintaining our strong investment-grade credit ratings.
In the third quarter we announced our agreement to sell our Credit Card portfolio to TD Bank for the gross value of the receivables at time of closing.
We plan to deploy the proceeds from this sale in a manner that's neutral to our debt ratings.
Given the amount of leverage we've applied to these assets we expect that following closing we will invest 10% or a little more of the proceeds in our current share repurchase program and the remainder in debt production over time.
We continue to expect to close this transaction with TD in the first half of 2013.
Now let's turn to the outlook for the fourth quarter.
We're expecting fourth quarter comparable store sales to increase in the 2% to 3% range.
Sales in this range would lead to a full year comp of 3% or more consistent with our long-range plan and our expectations going into the year.
As you know we have a 53rd accounting week this year.
Because we measure our comparable-store sales over periods of equal length our fourth quarter comp will not reflect sales in the extra week.
As a result the gap between Target's fourth quarter total and comparable-store sales will be much larger than normal.
We expect fourth quarter REDcard penetration will increase 400 basis points or more above last year consistent with our recent experience.
In Kansas City where we launched REDcard Rewards a year earlier than the rest of the country penetration reached 20% this month in advance of an expected temporary decline due to normal seasonal pattern.
This milestone is notable because 20% penetration represented a stretch goal when we launched REDcard Rewards.
And given that so far our nationwide experience has followed Kansas City 1 year later we expect to mirror this performance across the chain in fourth quarter 2013.
In the U.S.
Retail segment we expect our fourth quarter EBIT margin will be essentially flat to last year driven by a moderate decline in our gross margin rate offset by leverage on the SG&amp;A and D&amp;A expense lines.
In the Credit Card segment we expect to earn a spread to LIBOR of 8% or more generating spread to LIBOR dollars in line with our third quarter performance.
However given that we've already cycled the large reserve releases in 2011 this performance will represent an increase in year-over-year dollar profitability for the first time this year.
Combining all these expectations we expect fourth quarter adjusted EPS representing results from our U.S.
operations of $1.64 to $1.74.
This performance would put us at the high end of the full year guidance we provided last quarter and would put us ahead of our long-range plan's 2012 benchmark on our journey to achieving EPS of $7.20 or more in the U.S.
by 2017.
In Canada we anticipate that expenses will grow beyond our third quarter experience as we begin to hire a large group of team members to open our first stores in the spring.
Canadian D&amp;A will also increase as we continue to invest in technology and supply chain to serve these stores.
Our current expectation is that activities related to our Canadian market launch will reduce our fourth quarter EPS by approximately $0.19.
Combined with our expectation for adjusted EPS this dilution would lead to fourth quarter GAAP EPS $1.45 to $1.55.
While the economic environment this year has not been as robust as many of us would've hoped our business has performed beyond our expectations.
Specifically 9 months ago in our year end 2011 conference call I laid out an expectation for full year 2012 adjusted EPS of $4.55 to $4.75.
Given 3 quarters of actual results combined with the fourth quarter outlook I just outlined we now expect full year adjusted EPS of $4.75 to $4.85.
This means the low end of our current range would put us at the high end of our expectations going into the year.
Now Gregg has a few brief closing remarks.
As Kathy John and I have all indicated this morning we're very pleased with our team's performance and the financial results we delivered in the third quarter.
While we recognize that the fourth quarter and the holiday season are always intensely competitive we are excited about the plans we have in place confident in our team's ability to execute and optimistic about our ability to capture our fair share of our guests' hearts and wallets.
Now Kathy John and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Starting on the top line could you just talk about the impact of either inflation or deflation and what you're seeing in terms of either Food or Apparel at this point in the game? Deb this is John.
I don't think we're seeing really any material impact from the top line due to inflation in any of our categories -- specific categories across the store.
And certainly as we would aggregate that across the store as has been the case for the past several years in aggregate inflation impact is immaterial to our results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we're looking at SG&amp;A should we expect tech investments that are expensed to stay at the same run rate that was experienced in the third quarter? Yes I think that's pretty reasonable.
We continue to invest meaningfully in technology across the enterprise.
And as we've said we're also investing now in multi-channel initiatives across the enterprise and specifically around dotcom.
But like I just said in the fourth quarter outlook we expect to leverage SG&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter despite those investments ongoing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as your online performance continues to improve how do you think about the halo effect from the stores and leverage that? And then any thoughts on buying online and shipping to the store? You know Deb we do think that there is a halo effect when our site is performing well.
As you know guests do a lot of research online but then they want to come into stores and purchase.
And of course there's a lot of people who come into the store see the product and perhaps want a different color that we offer online.
So after looking at the product decide to still order through target.com because they want something that we offer that's different online.
So we see sales going back and forth between the 2 all the time which does make those channels blur quite a bit.
But I think the health of our site certainly impacts the health of our stores.
And I'm sorry what was your -- the second part of your...
Buy online ship to store.
Buy online ship to store.
At this point we are not offering that service to our guests.
But it is something that we've been talking about.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to focus on the REDcard a little bit.
It looks like the penetration the year-on-year increase in penetration was actually accelerating a little bit and with Kansas City at 20% it certainly suggests there's a lot of upside potential.
What do you think is driving that? I've noticed that there's certainly a bigger push behind marketing the program.
And is there any difference in the recent let's say 400- to 500-basis-point penetration of the newer cardholders or what you're seeing in Kansas City? Any difference in their behavior in terms of incremental spend in terms of the FICO score in terms of anything relative to the first let's say 10% to 12% penetration? Well we'll try to answer all 6 of those questions in order.
I think you hit it right on the head we are seeing the performance of the REDcards continue to accelerate and we've seen that both in Kansas City and in the U.S.
and our penetration continue to increase.
I think the big driver and we've talked about this a couple of times this year continues to be the debit card.
The debit card continues to grow roughly at about 3 accounts for every one account of credit and that has been kind of the secret sauce in the significant growth.
As far as performance of the card we continue to see both either a debit or a credit card once they're opened more than a 50% increase in sales on average at a household level.
So the performance remains very similar to what we've seen for the past couple of years both in Kansas City and in the broader -- in our entire store base.
And I'm trying to think what else what else you asked Colin? LLC.
Research Division</strong> I think that was it.
But if 20% was the stretch goal what's the stretch stretch goal now? Hard to say.
I think 20% I think we said about -- if you'd have asked us a year ago we would've said we thought 20% was the top.
Obviously with Kansas City hitting that for a period of time and as we said that will come back here in the fourth quarter just due to the dynamics of the quarter we'd expect the company to be there next year and we think there's just a very long runway here.
We think the product is an outstanding offer.
Clearly our guests are starting to understand it.
The store teams are doing a great job as they communicate with our guests helping them understand both the credit and the debit offering.
So you wrap that all together and we think there's a long runway here.
Yes we haven't -- we see no reason to establish an upside benchmark at this point.
And I would just add from -- in addition to what John said our guests really love this because Target is their favorite store or a favorite store of theirs to shop to begin with.
And this is a very powerful immediate and simple program.
I mean they -- we have a lot of our guests that spend thousands of dollars and that 5% savings along with the other bets [ph] is a meaningful savings to them.
And you don't have to accumulate points or anything.
And the debit card in particular has been very very successful.
So those shoppers who are coming to Target on a very regular basis can save a lot of money throughout the course of the year.
So it's very understandable why they like this program so much.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question for Kathy.
Neiman Marcus what's your expectation for cross shopping that customer who comes in for the relatively limited 50 items? And can you tell us at all what the dollar value of the inventory was in Neiman Marcus products? We do think that there will be a lot of cross shopping Colin as we've seen with other limited-time partnerships that we've had but we think particularly this time of the year the guest is coming in to buy gifts maybe some self gifting but also gifts for people on their list.
And Target is a great place to get gifts of all type.
And so we think they'll come in for Neiman Marcus but we do think that they will shop the rest of the store and there will be some impact.
In terms of the inventory and the dollar amount we don't disclose what we buy or sell on these limited partnerships.
But we are very excited about it.
And it will be our biggest event our biggest partnership event that we've ever conducted at a great time of year as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> On the new Holiday Price Match what's your expectation for the portion of transactions that might have this price match? Is this low single digits? And then given that price transparency is here to stay might you consider doing this as a full-time measure? Yes this is Gregg.
We don't see a lot of price match activity in our stores.
We've been price matching for a long time.
Our value proposition is so good day in and day out and our circular price offering is so good that we don't expect this to be meaningful.
So it will be in the -- we expect in the single digits.
And we'll take a look and evaluate this post-holiday to determine what our plan is going forward.
We haven't made any decisions as it relates to that at this point in time and really want to get through the have the period and regroup and assess the campaigns to determine how to address 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I may have missed it but can you give us a sense for how you're tracking in November? And what is the comp range expected for fourth quarter? As you might expect the beginning of the month was a little bit choppy certainly with Sandy on the East Coast the election a few things going on.
But we feel really good about the guidance we gave for November of a low and more important than that we feel really good about the quarter the 2% to 3% comp that we just talked about for the quarter.
So much of the -- I mean we have 2 weeks down 11 weeks in front of us and we have so much of the business concentrated in that Thanksgiving weekend and in the 10 days before holidays so that the vast majority of the holiday season is in front of us at this particular point in time.
So we're excited about it.
We've got a great plan.
Our stores are ready our teams are ready.
We've got a great value offering and some really inspiring merchandise.
So we believe we'll profitably take market share this holiday season.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the Credit Card you mentioned you're going to retain a majority of the profits.
What are we going to see there in terms of reporting moving forward and just a little perspective there? Yes we did say the majority of the profits.
I think as we indicated when we made the announcement ultimately we will report as everyone else does once they no longer own the assets we'll report the net impact the income less the expenses that we incur for servicing those assets in SG&amp;A within our Retail segment.
So that's our plan going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just for Canada as we start to look forward there when do you expect to give us an outlook on the dilution we could expect for 2013? And then what's the arc there? As you start with the sales are you expecting kind of weak margins to start? And how do we think about the progression once it gets going? Yes we'll -- we're working on detailed plans for both Canada and the U.S.
business both and we'll walk you guys through our exact plans financially when we do the fourth quarter conference call.
I think importantly for Canada probably the most important thing is that the Q4 of next year is when we have said we'll move from dilution to accretion.
So our focus is on getting profitable in Q4 2013 and we feel good about that right now.
I think when the stores open up there's a lot of variables there.
We said for a long time we have a better idea of where the stores will be in year 2 or year 3 than we do in year 1.
Lots of volatility we'll certainly see a surge early and then we'll settle in and we'll refine as we go along both our merchandising assortment and how we operate those stores.
So I think we would expect to see sales and margins we will -- we do expect to see both sales and margins improve as we go along.
But by that I don't mean you should be looking quarter-over-quarter.
This will take us a couple of years to refine our operating model in Canada.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the Neiman question.
Gregg you mentioned that it's the biggest event ever.
Am I correct that it's bigger than Missoni was last September? I thought you had about 150 products so that sounds like you're expecting to have more inventory of a smaller assortment here? Well it will be substantially larger than Missoni but this is more tightly edited in terms of the number of items that we have.
So the commitment behind each item will be substantially more than any event that we've ever done.
And given the time of year that it is and the fact that these will make great holiday gifts the inventory on a per-item basis is something that we've never supported in the past.
Missoni and some of other ones have had hundreds of SKUs as you know and this has a much more narrowly-defined assortment base.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
So you're not selling out in day 1.5 this time? Well we're hopeful that this is our biggest success yet but we're not making any predictions as it relates to the sell-through timetable.
Like any event of this magnitude there are going to be some items that sell through very very quickly and other items that will take a little bit longer to sell through.
But overall we look at the entire assortment we look at the portfolio of designers and we think across the board there's something for everyone.
So we think it's going to be successful across the board.
It's just a matter of how you want to gauge success is it hours or days or possibly a week which might be a stretch.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Then one follow-up.
On the grocery side grocery comps moderated in October.
And so I was just wondering if you could help us with how much of that was moderation of price inflation versus cycling the hump of the PFresh opens last year? And what do you think is sort of a sustainable comp is in that category assuming inflation doesn't really go anywhere from here? I think as we look at October we think very little to do really with inflation in that category.
We think the majority of what we saw in October was cycling over what was by far our largest PFresh remodel program in one cycle last year.
As we think about grocery going forward mid to high comps seem reasonable for us for a run rate as we look ahead here.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> John a question on leverage and then on online for Gregg or Kathy.
On leverage ex credit it seems like you should be a little under 2x debt-to-EBITDA versus 2.5x now.
Is that where -- well is my math is right; and two is that where you want to run the business long term or should we assume it goes up a little bit above 2x again? Your math is pretty correct Greg and I think that's about the range that you'll see us operate in.
As we've said we want to maintain the current credit ratings that we're at and we believe as we talk to the agencies and we'll go back and talk to them again obviously once all the dust settles from the receivables transactions but we believe that's about the right range where we'll continue to operate.
Research Division</strong> And then -- that's helpful.
And second on online I mean last year that was an area where you were down and I know that was a disappointment.
I'm just curious in this year's fourth quarter guidance what do you expect from online sales growth? And linked to that how much is REDcard penetration in terms of online sales? I imagine it's quite higher than the 14%.
Yes first as it relates to the impact on the comp as we said last year when it was not helpful it wasn't material.
And this year while we do believe it will be helpful to the comp it won't be a material portion of it.
And I think you're exactly right the REDcard penetration online is higher than we see in the stores.
And as you might expect in certain categories it is significantly higher than we see in the stores given the 5% off plus the free shipping online you don't have to let your mind wander too far to think about categories where the penetration is probably pretty significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
John first of all just on the tax rate.
We've consistently seen some benefits here for the last several quarters.
So I'm just curious as you think about the fourth quarter maybe some parameters around how you think the tax rate is going to come in? And then secondly on inventory you mentioned that there was less outside the stores.
Is that something -- is that a structural change that we should be thinking about or something that was just a bit more unique to this period? Sure.
On the tax rate I'll take that and then let Kathy talk about inventory.
We have seen several what we have characterized as onetime events over the past several years and they have been truly onetime as we have settled many discrete tax matters.
I think for fourth quarter we'd expect to see rates similar to what we saw last year.
The caveat I'll put on that is that with Canada with our dilution growing meaningfully year-over-year the rate in Canada is much lower than we see in the U.S.
and that of course puts -- when we have losses puts pressure on our consolidated tax rates so some impact related to that but nothing material.
And on the inventory side the team has done really an incredible job of managing our inventory both to be in stock but at the same time optimizing the supply chain to make sure that we're keeping that as tight as we possibly can.
A lot of the improvement that we're seeing is just indicative of what's happening right now in our business.
So first of all better management of our receipts in Toys and Home.
There's some timing shifts in some gift-giving categories like Electronics.
But then as we talked about in the last call as well longer term we continue to really succeed in moving a portion of our base inventory out of our distribution centers and our store backrooms and getting it onto the sales floor which is a huge win for us because that's where guests can shop it.
So we continue to work on those initiatives.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Not to be too near-term focused but did I hear you Gregg earlier that even with the Sandy impact and the choppiness that you saw you still feel good about November comps up low single digits? Well we feel that for the quarter we're going to be within the range that we have described and how we have characterized November.
So much of November comes around the Thanksgiving weekend and that's ahead of us yet.
So we still feel good where our plans are for the month and for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then beginning of the year I believe you guys stated the intention to do about $1.5 billion in buyback -- $1.5 billion in buyback.
You didn't really do much here in the third quarter.
So I was wondering as why and I guess if you still feel good about that $1.5 billion target for the year? Yes I think we actually said $1.5 billion or more.
And I think the key is and you see this in the third quarter in other areas is we don't do that just on autopilot.
I think as we saw the stock price went up pretty aggressively in third quarter.
We always pause to see where the market's really going to land and make sure that we're buying at a reasonable pace for the year.
We still think $1.5 billion or more is a reasonable range for us to end in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and last my question just to circle up on the Canada topic.
A couple of years back Doug talked about the dilution before you started to make money in that segment to be about $1.
It looks like this year with last year will be about $0.62 of dilution.
So should we think about the first 3 quarters of next year being about $0.38 of dilution to make up that $1 or is there something different that's changed? Well as we -- as I said a little bit earlier we haven't provided any guidance on 2013 yet.
I think if you look back you'd find that Doug used the words "For example" when he talked about that.
But I think more important than that as I said we'll be back in about 3 months to give you our detailed view of what we think will happen in Canada over the next 4 months.
And you kind of hit on it there subtlety but again I go back to I think Q4 is the key date for next year when we move from dilution to accretion.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Kathy just a question on the merchandise.
In terms of Apparel you mentioned Men's and Performance as relatively strong in the quarter.
And given the comp that you produced in that category implies maybe a little bit weaker trends in Women's and Kids.
Was it more in the fashion basics or seasonal and anything you can help to do to reinvigorate the growth in those 2 areas for the fourth quarter? You're correct our strongest performance were in Men's and our Performance Activewear which is -- Activewear has been strong really all year both because it's a great trend in Apparel right now but also given the quality and the value that we offer in C9 it's been really an exceptional performer.
I think the weakness in Kids and ready-to-wear or relative weakness I think is mostly driven by seasonal.
We saw some really good strength in sort of our better must-have product.
But we are still waiting for weather to break in most of the country and we have a lot of seasonal apparel both in Kids and in ready-to-wear in particular which is still off to a slower start.
But I do feel great about the holiday season.
Our sweaters are starting to sell and some of the other seasonal product that we have in ready-to-wear.
So I think our assortment looks good.
It's -- we'll see here in the next few weeks.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I guess secondly a question for John.
You had mentioned that the SG&amp;A was up a little bit from higher expenses in technology and multi-channel but should leverage that in Q4.
I guess is this primarily associated with sales from that extra week that you're getting that leverage or -- and should we expect a higher comp leverage point potentially on SG&amp;A on the U.S.
business for the foreseeable future as you make these investments in technology? Yes it would start on Q3.
I think the other thing I would remark upon relative to Q3 is last year in Q3 we leveraged 40 basis points of SG&amp;A.
So when we talked about the quarter at the beginning at the end in our second quarter conference call we actually expected to delever a bit more than we did.
So we're pretty pleased with our expense discipline across the company in the third quarter.
For the fourth quarter certainly a small element of that is related to the 53rd week.
But frankly most of the expense leverage that comes in the 53rd week is across depreciation and amortization because of the way we expense that.
And that's where most of the benefit comes as you might expect.
Most of our expenses happen in the 53rd week just like anyone -- any other week.
Benefits payroll which is obviously our biggest expense across the enterprise property taxes that all happens just like normal.
So that's the primary benefit.
Going forward we've said that we expect to maintain our EBITDA margin rates.
And so we expect to overcome gross margin rate compression with SG&amp;A leverage and to do so at a 3 comp.
So nothing's really changed in our formula.
We expect to accommodate the investments we're making in multi-channel and technology both within our capital plan and our SG&amp;A plan going forward.
Your next question comes from line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the -- just wanted to follow up on the Apparel question.
If we look at what you've been doing with your different partnerships they're very interesting they create buzz.
I'm curious in order to get the comp maybe moving up a little bit in Apparel is there any hope of doing something a little bit more permanent with any of these partnerships? And do you think that your price and value proposition is right? We feel that having limited time partnerships with designers is the best place for us to be because it allows us to capitalize on current trends in the marketplace and designers who are up and coming and we've had a great response to that.
And throughout the course of the year our Apparel business has been really solid.
So I do think that our price-value relationship is very good.
This is an awkward time of the year given how much seasonal product that we have in Apparel and waiting for that weather to break and guests to get really interested in seasonal product is always sort of a timing issue.
But when you look throughout the course of the whole year our Apparel business has been very solid and I think it will continue to be solid.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could follow up last year I believe on the third quarter call you had commented about your competitor's layaway program maybe having an impact on you.
I'm curious they started it earlier this year they actually quantified it today about how much they thought it was extra.
We didn't really hear much from you on that.
Do you think it had any impact on your business? I don't think our guests based on our research is that interested in layaway.
They are interested in great prices every day.
So I think our value equation is really important to them couple that with our Holiday Price Match which gives them confidence to buy any time during the holiday season and know that if it appears at a lower price from Target or anyone else later in the season that they can get that price matched as well as we've talked about with our debit and credit card getting 5% off I think that's really critical to our guests much more so than layaway.
Our final question comes from the line of Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First just a follow-up on price match.
Although there's not a high usage rate for that do your focus -- does your focus group research show that having it in place improves loyalty or conversion in the store? And when it is used is there any disruption to checkout? We don't conduct the price match policy at the checkout.
We conduct it at the service desk.
And our whole strategy is about delivering a great experience and having our guests have confidence in our pricing our value proposition day in and day out is rock solid.
On ad we meet or beat the competition 5% REDcard reward on top of or in conjunction with our Price Match Guarantee is a winning combination and unbeatable in the marketplace.
So it's very strong it's very compelling and we're just -- we're excited about it because the value proposition is so good.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly I realize there's some runway ahead of us here.
But how are you thinking about the 5.3% compare in Q1 early next year? Are there any specific plans in place to comp that in addition to the ongoing benefit of 5% PFresh and other initiatives? Well I think as we said we haven't provided any specific guidance.
But I guess I would point to Q3 this quarter.
We cycled against very strong results this quarter a 4.3 comp profit rates EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were very strong for the quarter and we just produced another very strong quarter.
Obviously last spring and first quarter and we talked about in the conference call it was the perfect storm of good things all happened.
We had the right merchandise in our stores weather was great and people felt great about shopping.
So we have some strong business to cycle.
But we'll be back to talk about what we intend to produce for results in Q1 in about 3 months.
Okay.
Well that concludes Target's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Target Corporation’s fourth quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel president and chief executive officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our 2012 fourth quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija executive vice president of merchandising; and John Mulligan executive vice president and chief financial officer.
This morning I'll provide a high-level summary of our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results and strategic priorities as we enter 2013.
Then Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally John will provide more detail on our financial performance along with our outlook for 2013.
Following John's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a Q&amp;A session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP results is included in this morning's press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
We’re very pleased with our fourth quarter financial performance which reflects outstanding execution by our team during a volatile and promotional holiday season.
Our U.S.
operations generated fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.65 10.1% above last year and in line with our prior guidance even though sales fell short of our expectations.
Our fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share were $1.47 reflecting Canadian segment dilution that was slightly favorable to our expectations.
As we previously reported fourth quarter comparable store sales in our U.S.
retail segment grew 0.4% compared with an expected increase of 2-3%.
In addition our holiday season sales became even more concentrated around Black Friday and in the days leading up to and just after the Christmas holiday.
This presented challenges for both our merchandising and stores teams who did an excellent job maintaining profitability adjusting receipts to mitigate markdown exposure and maintaining outstanding guest service while delivering productivity improvements.
We are very pleased with fourth quarter sales in our digital channels as online and mobile sales grew faster than industry averages.
As a result of our efforts to improve the website throughout 2012 key performance metrics are meaningfully improved and our mobile sales and traffic are growing at a triple-digit pace off a much smaller base.
As we’ve described in the past our investments in the website and mobile technology drive guest engagement with Target and lead them to shop more across all of our channels.
For example following the launch of free wireless in all of our stores in the fourth quarter Target.com was by far the site most commonly accessed by guests while they were shopping in our stores.
As Kathy and John will describe in more detail our plans for 2013 reflect our ongoing commitment to investing in a robust multichannel experience for our guests.
Our U.S.
credit card segment maintained its long string of outsourcing quarterly results as the portfolio is producing healthy profits in conjunction with very favorable risk metrics.
We are working to complete sale of our portfolio to TD Bank Group and expect the transaction to close in this quarter.
John will provide more details in a few minutes.
When we step back and view the year just ended we are proud of the ambitious strategic agenda and financial results we delivered.
Beyond our multichannel initiatives and significant work in Canada to prepare for this year’s openings we were very pleased with the initial performance of our first five CityTarget stores where we’re seeing robust sales and traffic as well as favorable payroll expense and gross margin mix.
And we’re thrilled that our efforts on this unique urban format were recognized earlier this month when Fast Company magazine ranked Target among its top 10 most innovative companies.
As we continue to hone the operational model for CityTarget we will apply what we learn across all of our formats in the U.S.
and Canada.
In our Canadian segment preparations for our market launch are reaching their peak.
We expect to open our first 24 Canadian stores by early April and after more than two years of effort our Target Canada team is eager to welcome their first guests and begin generating sales.
The former Zeller sites are being completely transformed into brand new Target stores that look terrific and feature our latest thinking in terms of layout fixtures and design.
For the year we expect to open 124 Canadian Target stores in five waves before the Christmas holiday season.
This ambitious launch has required the team to be both nimble and disciplined setting an outstanding example for the entire organization.
In addition to our Canadian store openings we’re planning to open 15 to 20 new stores in the U.S.
this year including three additional CityTargets.
Net of closings and relocations we expect these openings will add 10-15 new locations to the chain.
Combining these expected U.S.
store openings with our Canadian expansion plans we expect to open many more new stores this year than any other year in our history.
Also in keeping with our commitment to invest in our existing stores we plan to remodel just over 100 of our stores in 2013.
This is a more moderate pace than in each of the past three years as the majority of our stores now reflect our newly reinvented general merchandise format.
This layout is much more appealing to our guests and incorporates a deeper food assortment merchandise reinventions across the store and a more visually compelling shopping environment.
As we enter 2013 we will plan appropriately as the U.S.
economy is growing at a painfully slow rate and unemployment remains persistently high.
While there are some encouraging signs in the housing market volatility in consumer confidence the payroll tax increase and rise in the price of gas all present incremental headwinds.
Given these new challenges facing an already sluggish economy we have a tempered view of the near term sales environment.
However as we have seen in the past our guests are quite resilient.
We will be vigilant in monitoring our business and our teams will be ready to capitalize on unexpected strength as they demonstrated in the first quarter last year.
We believe that we are well-positioned to succeed even in this uncertain environment.
We’ll focus on providing unbeatable value and back up that commitment with our newly enhanced price match policy which now covers offers from key online competitors year round.
We’re also committed to taking smart risks on bold innovative ideas and learning quickly from the results.
We’ll raise the bar in differentiation providing our guests unique products and experiences at affordable prices.
And as Kathy will outline in more detail we will continue to partner with designers on unique collections that embody the “Expect More” side of our brand promise and remind guests why Target is special.
In addition to investments in our stores website and award-winning mobile apps Target Red Cards provide a key platform for our loyalty initiatives.
We are seeing continued strong growth in the penetration of sales on these cards as Red Card guests respond to the opportunity to save 5% on practically every purchase receive free shipping every time they shop on Target.com and benefit from an extended return policy.
As I reflect on 2012 I’m incredibly proud of what the Target team has accomplished.
As John will outline in a few minutes we performed very well against all of our financial goals for the year keeping us on track to attain our long range financial objectives despite a challenging environment.
Beyond these financial goals a year ago we had an ambitious list of priorities for 2012 including improving the performance of Target.com following our platform relaunch in 2011; an unprecedented effort required in Canada to finish three distribution centers begin renovating stores build an IT solution and hire thousands of Canadian team members; launching a completely new urban format with our first five CityTargets; finding the right partner to purchase our credit card receivables assets on appropriate financial terms; and transitioning two key positions on our executive management team.
While this was a bold agenda our team embraced it and emerged from the year with more energy than ever.
As I mentioned we made meaningful progress on the website CityTarget is an operational and financial success Canada is on track and we’re on the verge of closing the sale of our credit card receivables.
And importantly we’ve added two outstanding members to our executive management team in Jeff Jones and John Mulligan.
The challenges facing us in the year ahead are more short term in nature and I am confident in the clarity of our strategy the power of our brand and the strength and commitment of our talented team to achieve our goals and deliver another year of outstanding results in 2013.
In other words we are quite optimistic about our ability to successfully compete in a dynamic retail environment while generating meaningful shareholder value over time.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on our fourth quarter results and outline initiatives for the first quarter and beyond.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
Though we fell short of our overall sales goal for the fourth quarter we were pleased that we grew comparable store sales in four of our five merchandising categories and that we sustained our profitability in the face of choppy consumer spending and an intensely competitive environment.
Consistent with the rest of the year fourth quarter comparable store sales were strongest in our less-discretionary frequency businesses which saw growth in the low to mid-single digits.
In both of our discretionary home and apparel categories fourth quarter comparable store sales increased in line with the company average and saw rapid growth in our digital channels.
Fourth quarter comparable store sales in hard lines declined in the mid single digit range and were softest in electronics.
Many more electronics categories are in mature stages of the product cycle and during the holiday season electronics constitutes the primary battleground where competitors engage in their most irrational promotions.
In toys overall fourth quarter comparable store sales were down slightly overall but increased about 30% through our digital channels.
When we look back at our 2012 results we’re pleased that we also grew full year comparable store sales in both home and apparel while research indicated that our guests were focused on reducing discretionary spending overall.
We achieved this outcome by gaining meaningful wallet share from our best guests and our loyalty initiatives played a key role through three separate programs in 2012.
First our PFresh remodel program is designed to drive more trips among our core guests by offering them more convenience and the ability to do more of their shopping in a store layout they love.
Second our 5% Red Card rewards program led our guests regardless of their previous level of engagement to increase their shopping frequency and spending dramatically.
Our research shows that on average Red Card guests shop almost 2x more per month than guests without a Red Card and these guests shop 2.5 more departments per visit compared with non-Red Card guests.
Finally our newest loyalty program Pharmacy Rewards saw phenomenal success in 2012.
Pharmacy guests are already among our best guests shopping about 3x more often than our non-pharmacy guests.
However Pharmacy Rewards guests are even more valuable shopping on average more than 50% more often than our already valuable pharmacy guests.
Notably these programs complement one another driving even stronger guest loyalty and incremental sales.
For instance guests participating in both 5% rewards and Pharmacy Rewards shopped more often and spend more across the store than guests who participate in only one of these programs.
Throughout 2013 and beyond we will explore ways to extend these programs and find new ways to drive guest engagement traffic and sales.
As Gregg mentioned fourth quarter sales grew and our digital channels were quite strong having accelerated throughout the year as we improved the site’s stability and speed while enhancing search and navigation.
These investments are clearly driving higher overall guest satisfaction and with our continued focus on expanded content and site functionality we expect continued improvement in 2013.
We’re also seeing amazing growth in traffic and sales through our mobile platforms.
Mobile purchases now constitute more than 7% of our digital sales and mobile traffic is now more than 25% of our overall digital traffic.
Guests are responding to the significant enhancements we made to our mobile offering in 2012 including improved design and navigation becoming one of the first retailers to participate in Apple’s Passbook and growing out a way-finding pilot in select stores.
As mobile continues to grow in importance we will focus on creating in-store guest experiences and testing new technologies that make smartphones an even more useful shopping companion with enhanced product search maps and shopping lists.
We’re also exploring ways to integrate relevant product offers and promotions with the in-store mobile shopping experience.
And of course as a member of MCX the Merchant Customer Exchange we’re involved in a collaborative effort among a broad group of top U.S.
merchants to develop a mobile payment system that is widely accepted secure and easy and convenient for our guests to use.
In 2013 we’re planning to increase our investment in technology and supply chain to enhance our multichannel capabilities.
We will apply a test-and-learn approach to discover what our guests value most while assessing the impact on our operations.
Our goal is to leverage existing assets to enable more flexibility fulfillment of our guests’ shopping needs in a way that makes sense both operationally and financially.
In 2012 through small pilots in the Twin Cities and San Francisco we plan to test the ability for guests to pay online and pick up in store the ability for guests to pay in one store and pick up at another store and the ability to pay online and have items shipped from a store including the option for same-day delivery.
We believe these tests will provide valuable information as we continue to shape our multichannel strategies.
Ultimately we expect to evolve towards more integration across our inventory and supply chain in which our stores regional distribution centers and web fulfillment centers all interact seamlessly to satisfy guests’ wants and needs through all our channels.
After improving gradually in 2012 consumer sentiment fell sharply in the fourth quarter reflecting turmoil surrounding the fiscal cliff and overall political uncertainty.
In addition more than 50% of U.S.
consumers believe that the economy will either remain the same or get worse in 2013 and 85% indicate they expect the economy to impact their lifestyle for the next several years.
Beyond these potential headwinds to consumer spending the average U.S.
household will see a $1 000 reduction in their after-tax income as a result of the recent increase in payroll tax rates.
However even in this challenging environment we expect to win by strengthening guest loyalty and driving increased sales through merchandising that supports both sides of our “Expect More Pay Less” brand promise.
We’ll continue to match prices on identical items offered by both store-based and online competitors.
And we’ll offer guests affordable products and experiences that allow them to treat themselves and their families while staying within their budgets.
For example in apparel we are very pleased with the response to our current designer partnership Prabal Gurung for Target.
Prabal is one of the most celebrated designers in the fashion industry and this collection embodies his signature style and design aesthetic all at affordable prices.
The Prabal Gurung for Target collection features ready-to-wear handbags shoes and jewelry that provide key differentiation for Target this spring.
We’re also very pleased with the response to our partnership with Sports Illustrated and their swimsuit issue.
As you know spring swimwear is already a signature business for Target.
Through this collaboration Sports Illustrated is creating its first style guide which will feature original content from the publication’s esteemed editorial team specifically geared towards their female readers.
This partnership reinforces Target as a swimwear destination by allowing us to reach a unique audience with our on-trend affordable offerings.
Also this spring Target is collaborating with Kate Young one of the most influential stylists in the fashion industry to introduce a limited edition collection of women’s apparel accessories and shoes.
We’ve worked with Kate as a stylist for years but for this project she took on the role of designer translating her unique aesthetic and ability to create memorable red carpet moments into a standout collection for women.
The Kate Young for Target collection will be available beginning April 14 at all Target stores and Target.com.
In home we continue to build on the success of the Nate Berkus collection which launched last fall.
This collection includes more than 150 home products with prices ranging from $6 to $150 featuring stylish and relatable pieces that feel like they were collected over time and designed to be easily layered into existing décor.
We’ll be adding new items to this ongoing collection in 2013.
And throughout the spring we’ll continue to roll out our threshold brand to replace Target Home.
Initial results from this brand launch have been favorable as guests respond to this fully redesigned high-quality collection that’s inspiring guests to update their homes.
In entertainment we’re following up our very successful fourth quarter partnership with Bruno Mars and One Direction with an exclusive version of Josh Groban’s new album “All That Echoes ” which launched February 5.
And we were very excited to announce our latest partnership with Justin Timberlake during the Grammy Awards earlier this month.
Target will offer an exclusive version of Justin’s latest release “The 20/20 Experience ” featuring two exclusive tracks available at Target and Target.com beginning March 19.
In electronics we continue to focus on service as a value-added differentiator for our guests.
In the fourth quarter we announced that we would be ending our current relationship with Radio Shack in our mobile phone business and would begin working with Brightstar to provide supply chain and point of sale activation and market source as our new in-store labor partner.
This change demonstrates our continued commitment to mobile as a key element of our electronics offering and we believe it will enhance Target’s position in the wireless retail marketplace.
This transition will occur in early April.
Also as you know last October we launched a test with Geek Squad to provide in-store service agents in 20 Denver Target stores.
Based on positive feedback from our guests Target expanded this test by offering Geek Squad service and replacement plans in 20 stores in Kansas City beginning February 17.
Future partnership plans will be determined following the results of these tests.
And finally our beauty category continues to experience very strong and consistent growth on an assortment that generates better than average profitability while serving as a key differentiator for Target.
As you know last year we began testing a store service program in which dedicated consultants offer friendly guidance and expertise for guests shopping our beauty area.
Based on 2012 results in 28 Chicago-area test stores we are looking to expand this program to additional markets in 2013 and beyond.
While we remain cautious about the economy and its impact on consumer spending we are confident in our brand our strategy and our merchandising and marketing plans.
We believe we offer an unbeatable balance of value and excitement on both wants and needs that continues to drive guest loyalty and engagement with Target.
Now John will share his insights on the fourth quarter and full year performance and outlook for 2013.
John? Thanks Kathy.
As Gregg mentioned we’re very pleased with the performance of our business particularly in the face of an intense holiday season promotional environment.
Our fourth quarter adjusted EPS of $1.65 is 10.1% above last year and reflects solid performance in our U.S.
retail segment combined with continued outstanding performance in our U.S.
credit card segment.
Fourth quarter GAAP EPS was $1.47 $0.02 last year as growth and adjusted EPS was offset by Canadian segment dilution.
Before I provide more detail on our fourth quarter performance and our outlook for 2013 I want to pause briefly to recap our full year 2012 performance.
One year ago in my first quarterly call with all of you I explained our plans which would keep us on track to attain our long-range financial plan of generating $8 or more in EPS on $100 billion or more in sales in 2017.
That 2012 plan was based on the following expectations across our three segs: U.S.
comp store sales growth of 3% or more continuation of our very healthy U.S.
retail EBITDA and EBIT margin rates of 10% and 7% a moderate decline in our gross margin rate offset by leverage in SG&amp;A and D&amp;A an increased Red Card penetration of 300 basis points or more throughout the year a decline in the size of our credit card portfolio of $500 million or more with a portfolio spread to LIBOR of 7% or better and about $0.50 of EPS dilution related to our Canadian market launch.
I also outlined that in 2012 we expected to invest a total of about $3.3 billion between the U.S.
and Canada continue our uninterrupted record of paying quarterly dividends increase the annual dividend during the year and invest $1.5 billion or more to repurchase our shares.
Altogether these expectations combine to an expected range of $4.55 to $4.75 in 2012 adjusted EPS and an expected GAAP EPS range of $4.05 to $4.25 reflecting expected Canadian dilution.
Today when you compare our actual 2012 performance against all of these metrics you’ll see we met or exceeded all of them except for U.S.
same-store sales which we missed by 3/10 of a point.
Altogether we earned full year 2012 adjusted EPS of $4.76 above the range going into the year.
GAAP EPS ended up well above its expected range reflecting adjusted EPS performance lower than expected dilution in Canada and the gain we recognized on our credit card receivables held for sale.
This gain reflected the attainment of another one of my goals to reach an agreement to sell the receivables portfolio to the right partner on appropriate terms.
I want to thank the entire Target team for their contributions to the achievements of our strategic and financial goals in 2012 a remarkable accomplishment particularly in light of the environment we faced.
In the call a year ago both Gregg and I outlined that our expectations for U.S.
retail segment sales were stronger in the first three quarters of 2012 and more modest in the fourth quarter.
It’s clear that we got the cadence right but the contrast between the first three quarters and the holiday season was even more pronounced than we expected.
With that as context let’s turn to the specifics of our fourth quarter segment results.
In the U.S.
retail segment fourth quarter comparable store sales increased 0.4% driven by a 1.4% increase in average ticket which offset a 1% decline in comparable store transactions.
As we mentioned several times throughout 2012 our fourth quarter retail strategy was focused on providing relevant offers to core guests profitably growing sales and market share from guests who want to shop with us all year long.
We believe this strategy was effective because despite softer than expected sales our teams managed the business effectively and retail profitability held up remarkably well.
Our fourth quarter gross margin rate went about 60 basis points below last year reflecting the ongoing impact of 5% Rewards and our remodel program combined with clearance markdowns on seasonal inventory.
In the fourth quarter our team managed SG&amp;A expense incredibly well leading to a small amount of rate leverage.
This is something we generally wouldn’t expect on a 0.4% comp particularly when our sales plan for the quarter was higher.
This performance is even more noteworthy because we were able to offset incremental expenses related to technology investments in multichannel and other initiatives.
This pressure was offset by continued expense discipline across the organization and once again our stores team was able to generate meaningful productivity improvements while providing great guest service.
We also experienced fourth quarter leverage on the depreciation and amortization expense line reflecting the moderate pace of U.S.
capital investment in recent years combined with the benefit from the 53rd week of sales in this fiscal year.
In our U.S.
credit card segment performance in the fourth quarter was outstanding once again.
Portfolio spread to LIBOR was $3 million higher than last year a 27% increase even though average receivables were more than 4% lower than a year ago.
Portfolio profitability continues to benefit from historically low delinquency and writeoff rates that continue to improve.
I want to thank our financial services team.
The quality of our receivables portfolio reflects their dedication and effort in managing through a recession and credit crisis worse than many of us thought possible.
The superior performance and profitability of this asset enabled us to reach a sale and servicing agreement with TD Bank a premier financial institution that shares our goals for portfolio growth and profitability.
In our Canadian segment we’re pleased with the plans we have in place and we’re on track to open our first 24 stores this quarter.
In the fourth quarter we recorded expenses related to investments in technology supply chain store renovations and the team as we continue to ramp up our efforts to open more stores in Canada in 2013 than any single year of U.S.
store openings in our history.
These activities drove $118 million of SG&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter which along with D&amp;A and interest expense associated with the segment reduced our fourth quarter GAAP EPS by $0.18.
Even as we prepared for peak Canada capital investment in 2013 our business continues to generate ample cash to allow us to fund investments in our business support the dividend and engage in share repurchase.
In the fourth quarter we invested about $645 million to retire more than 10.4 million shares.
This means that combined with the dividend we returned nearly $900 million to our shareholders in the fourth quarter representing more than 90% of net earnings.
Now let’s turn our attention to our plans for 2013.
This year will clearly be a year of transition which will result in some unique dynamics in our P&amp;L.
First when we close the receivables sale with TD Bank Group we will recognize nonrecurring accounting items related to the sale and discontinued reporting of U.S.
credit card segment.
At the same time in the U.S.
retail segment we will begin recognizing income from profit sharing net of accounts servicing costs as an offset to SG&amp;A expense.
On an annualized basis we expect this change will reduce our U.S.
retail segment SG&amp;A rate by about 30 basis points leading to an equivalent increase in our U.S.
retail segment EBITDA and EBIT margin rates.
Of course the impact of full year 2013 will be less than this annualized impact.
The fiscal year has already begun and we have not yet closed the transaction.
One housekeeping note my guidance today will compare against last year’s financial results which included separate retail and credit card segments.
Once we have closed the receivables sale we will report performance of a single U.S.
segment and compare against restated prior year results which combine our results from the former U.S.
credit card segment and U.S.
retail segment.
To provide clarity on these restated comparisons after the sale closes we plan to furnish three years of quarterly restated U.S.
segment results.
While we don’t have a definite closing date we’re confident it will occur before the end of the first quarter.
Second in the Canadian segment we expect to transition from recording meaningful quarterly dilution in the year to recognizing accretion by the fourth quarter.
And finally I need to briefly discuss a geography change on the U.S.
retail segment P&amp;L that will influence gross margin and SG&amp;A expense rates in 2013.
Beginning this year we have made changes to our vendor agreements regarding payments received in support of our marketing programs.
As a result beginning in fiscal 2013 these payments will be accounted for as a reduction in our cost of sales rather than a reduction into SG&amp;A expense.
This change will create equivalent year over year increases in both our gross margin and SG&amp;A expense rates of 20-25 basis points without affecting our U.S.
retail EBITDA and EBIT margin rates.
So as you can see we have a lot of changes that will create some noise in our numbers throughout the year.
With that context let’s begin with a look at our 2013 expectations for our U.S.
retail segment.
As Gregg mentioned we are ending the year with a cautious view and might have heightened economic uncertainty in which challenged consumers are now facing additional pressures including rapidly rising gas prices and a payroll tax increase.
We’re planning full year 2013 comparable store sales to grow in line with our 2012 rate of 2.7%.
This growth will be combined with a moderate benefit from new square footage and offset by the comparison against this year’s 53rd week meaning total sales are expected to grow about 2%.
We expect a slightly higher U.S.
retail gross margin rate reflecting the vendor payment geography shift I mentioned above combined with category rate improvements which should offset ongoing pressure from 5% Rewards and our remodel program.
We also expect to see a slight improvement in our U.S.
retail SG&amp;A expense rate for the full year.
This expectation reflects continued discipline throughout the organization along with the benefit from credit card profit sharing which will offset the geography shift in vendor payments and continued pressure from investments in technology and supply chain including multichannel.
Those investments are expected to be worth $0.20 to $0.25 of EPS in 2013.
Altogether we expect a 2013 U.S.
retail segment EBITDA margin rate in the range of 10.3% and an expansion of the U.S.
retail segment EBIT margin rate to around 7.5% reflecting very healthy underlying performance combined with the impact of the receivables transaction I discussed earlier.
We expect to invest about $2.3 billion in the U.S.
in 2013.
While that amount is in line with our U.S.
capital investment in 2011 and 2012 the mix continues to shift toward investments beyond our stores.
In fact for 2013 the sum of our U.S.
investments in supply chain and technology including multichannel will likely be as high as our investments in new stores and remodels.
In the U.S.
credit card segment we expect the portfolio to continue to slowly decline in size until it stabilizes at between $5.5 billion and $6 billion.
We expect the portfolio will continue to generate outstanding profitability both before and after it is sold to TD Bank Group.
And we expect delinquencies and writeoffs to stabilize near current historically low levels.
As I mentioned before we continue to expect to close the deal before the end of the first quarter causing GAAP EPS to reflect some one-time items including a gain on sale and the recording of a beneficial interest receivable on our balance sheet.
We posted a document outlining those expected impacts last October when we announced the agreement and it’s still available on the website.
If you have additional questions about these one-time items John Hulbert and I will be happy to discuss them with you after this call.
Beyond expected one-time items that we’ll exclude from our adjusted EPS measure we continue to expect the transaction will reduce our adjusted EPS by about $0.10 in the 12 months following the closing compared with a scenario in which we kept the portfolio.
This impact reflects the sharing of a portion of the portfolio of profits for TD partially offset by the benefit of reduced interest expense and lower share count as we deploy proceeds from the sale.
We expect to provide more color on the impact of the sale once the closing date for the transaction is known.
Turning to the Canadian segment as we’ve discussed with many of you the sites we obtained in the Zellers deal were extremely well located with very attractive leases.
They were notably smaller than stores we opened in the U.S.
and in very poor physical condition.
As a result when we announced the Zellers deal we indicated that we expected to invest $10-11 million per existing building to make them into brand new Target stores.
Also at the time we indicated that we were working with Canadian landlords to understand which of those sites might have adjacent open space and whether we would have an opportunity to invest capital in an expansion when it made financial sense.
As a result of these discussions I’m happy to tell you that of the 124 stores we expect to open in 2013 we have decided to expand 40 sites beyond the space they occupied as Zeller stores creating more than 600 000 square feet of incremental retail selling space.
For each expansion we have made a separate underwriting decision in which we measured the added investment against the incremental cash flow we believe a larger building will generate.
All in we expect to invest about $1.5 billion of capital in the Canadian segment in 2013 as we complete renovations and expansions for this year’s openers and begin work on additional stores to open in 2014.
In 2013 we expect Canadian segment to generate approximately $0.45 of dilution to our GAAP EPS as the cost to open and operate Canadian stores along with the depreciation related to our capital investments offsets the profitability we generate from the locations after they open.
Dilution is expected to exceed $0.45 through the first three quarters after which we expect the segment to contribute several cents of positive GAAP EPS in the fourth quarter.
Even with total 2013 capital investment close to $4 billion we expect to return meaningful amounts of capital to shareholders.
Specifically we expect to continue our uninterrupted record of paying quarterly dividends and we recommend that our board improve another increase to the annual dividend later in the year.
In addition in 2013 we expect to be able to invest another $1.5 billion or so in share repurchase beyond the $600 million or more we expect to invest in share repurchase as a result of the receivables sale.
Finally we expect our 2013 effective tax rate to be in the range of 35.7% to 36.7%.
Altogether these expectations lead to a full year 2013 adjusted EPS in the range of $4.85 to $5.05.
Many of you will note that the center point of this range would put us slightly below the smooth path to attaining our long range financial plan in the U.S.
This reflects the fact that 2013 is indeed a year of transition including an expected $0.08 to $0.09 of near term dilution to adjusted EPS from the receivables sale that should [unintelligible] neutrality and ultimately accretion over the next few years.
We remain fully committed and on track to attain our long range financial plan of $8 or more in earnings per share in 2017.
For full year 2013 we expect full year GAAP EPS will be about $0.15 than adjusted EPS reflecting $0.45 of dilution related to our Canadian segment offset by one-time accounting impacts of the receivables sale.
Let’s turn finally to our expectations for the quarter.
In the U.S.
retail segment as you know in addition to economic uncertainty we face a tough comparison due to the exceptionally strong sales we delivered in the first quarter of last year.
As a result we expect to generate first quarter comparable store sales sales growth of 0% to 2% in the U.S.
Like some others that have reported sales results have been softer than expected so far in February and daily volatility has been elevated.
Yet trends have improved somewhat as the month has progressed and it’s still early in the quarter so we believe our guidance is appropriate.
In the U.S.
retail segment we expect our first quarter EBITDA margin rate to be somewhat higher than last year driven by improvements in both our gross margin and SG&amp;A expense rates.
Our gross margin forecast anticipates category rate improvements combined with the impact of the vendor payment geography shift which are expected to offset ongoing pressure from 5% Rewards and our store remodel program.
Our SG&amp;A forecast anticipates continued expense discipline throughout the organization combined with the impact of [unintelligible] portfolio profit sharing which we expect to offset vendor payment geography and continued pressure from our multichannel investments.
We also expect some leverage on D&amp;A compared with last year.
Together these expectations for our U.S.
retail segment lead to expected first quarter adjusted EPS of $1.10 to $1.20.
Looking to Canada we expect that the first quarter will mark the peak of dilution attributable to this segment at about $0.23.
However this is expected to be more than offset by accounting gains from the receivables sale leading to an expectation of first quarter GAAP EPS in the range of $1.22 to $1.32.
One comment on the expected cadence of the U.S.
sales throughout 2013.
Within our first quarter outlook we obviously expect comparable store sales growth to strengthen later in the year namely in the second and third quarters.
Like last year we have an appropriately tempered view of fourth quarter sales.
As I mentioned earlier 2013 will be a transition year not just for our P&amp;L but for our capital plan as well as we expect peak investment in Canada the mix of our U.S.
capital investment to move increasingly into technology and distribution in support of our multichannel strategy and we divest our credit card receivables assets.
Following this year our current view of 2014 has us fully on or above the path outlined in our long-range financial plan benefitting from Canadian segment accretion and a meaningful increase in the amount of capital available to return to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Gregg for a few brief closing remarks.
That concludes today’s prepared remarks.
Now Kathy John and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question will come from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Could you give us a little outlook on what free cash flow is going to look like once Canada is over on the $1.5 billion of spend? And where do you expect to deploy that? Is it going to be tilted more towards share repurchase or how do you look at that? Obviously this year 2013 will be peak capital investment in Canada about $1.5 billion.
Next year going forward capex for the U.S.
we’d expect something similar perhaps growing a little bit $2.5 billion something in that range Canada dropping to somewhere - we’re still opening a fair number of stores a half a billion perhaps a bit more than that.
So we would expect free cash flow to expand especially in light of Canada operations becoming accretive.
As far as what we would intend to do with that we said first by 2017 assuming we get to $8 a share we would expect the dividend to be at $3 a share or more so we’d expect to continue to increase the dividend at a rate approximately 20% on a compound basis over the next several years.
And with the constraint of living within our current strong investment grade credit ratings we’d expect to deploy the remainder of our excess cash flow as share repurchase.
And can you give us a little more color on the Canada dilution of $0.45? I think that’s bigger than a lot of people were expecting.
It sounds like a lot of it is related to the capital spending decision.
So if you could walk us through that a little bit.
I think that’s right Mark.
When we look back where we’re at right now with Canada we feel really good about where we’re at in our projections for returns in Canada.
If we look back a year ago or even two years ago and we sign the deal our projected EBITDA for this year is essentially right on where we thought it would be.
The dilution is a bit higher even than we expected perhaps a year ago and all of that is attributable to independent capital investment decisions we’ve made whether that’s investing in three distribution centers to build them and own them ourselves or the 40 store expansions that I mentioned that we worked through over the past year.
So most of the increase from our vantage point is attributable to incremental depreciation and amortization.
And of course those capital investments were separate economic decisions and we expect to see economic benefit to that P&amp;L through time but the sequencing is that the depreciation and amortization shows up first.
And also you talked about the percent rent clauses in Canada.
I know you got out of some of those.
Yeah the property development team did an outstanding job working with some very good partners our landlords in Canada and the vast majority of the percent rent clauses which of course never impacted Zellers have been negotiated away.
Percent rent is not a meaningful issue for us going forward.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
I have a couple of questions.
First John on the leverage once credit’s gone we get your debt to EBITDAR around 1.7 1.8 could you put some context into how high you think that can or should go given everything in terms of being great credit rating as you take the dividend out?  Should we model sort of a 2 as a capital? How should we think about that? I think what I would say is right now as we look at the retail business and model that we’ve always modeled that kind of independently of the credit business given the different leverage characteristics as you noted.
We think the retail business right now is probably pretty close to the top end.
There may be a little bit of room.
But we think it’s near about where the leverage which will support our current credit rating is at.
So the incremental buyback is really the equity from the credit business? Correct for 2013 that’s correct.
And then secondly maybe a bigger question for Kathy or Gregg the Red Card growth compared to say three years ago has I think beaten all of our expectations.
Certainly mine.
It looks like last year it was up over 50%.
Could you help us understand a little bit more about that 50% growth in Red Card sales? How much of it is from new Red Card members? How much of it is existing members spending more? Anything you could provide there would be helpful.
Sure the increase in Red Card sales is a mix of both.
Certainly the new accounts are creating a significant amount of that lift with the amount of accounts.
And you know you can see the increased penetration resulting from new accounts.
But we have also seen increased lift particularly over the first several quarters that the Red Card was out in existing accounts.
The other thing I would mention the big driver here of the increase in sales as has been the case the big driver in the increase of the whole program has been the debit card and I think from our assumptions perhaps two or three years ago when we were talking to you to now the debit card is the one that has really surprised us.
The credit card has probably gone pretty much with what we thought but the debit card we’re doing three accounts to one debit to credit now and that has been the product that is incredibly attractive to consumers who just don’t want another credit card.
And that’s really what has driven the significant increase in our Red Card sales.
The other thing that I would add is all of our guest segments love the Red Card somewhat equally whether you’re a VIP which we would say is somebody who visits us a lot and spends a lot all the way through our enthusiasts convenience users least engaged.
All of those segments once they get the Red Card move toward visiting Target more often and spending more.
So this is not just isolated in one group or demographic.
It’s very well dispersed and balanced.
And we think that’s a very positive attribute that that many guest segments love the Red Card.
Your next question will come from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Maybe just first John a clarification question on the $8 in EPS for 2017.
I think before that was predicated on a 2% or more U.S.
annual U.S.
store growth.
Do you still think that’s the appropriate number to get to that $7.20 from the U.S.
business? The actual assumption for the U.S.
business was about a 3 comp through time and you know some years will be a little bit above that some years a little bit below that.
But we think 3 comp is about the right level for our business.
If you look back at our business over a really really long period of time you know back when we were running 5 comps a couple hundred basis points of that were coming from new stores as they annualized and we ran about a 3 comp in our base business.
And over the last couple of years since 2010 last year a little bit lower 2011 right on we feel like that’s the right neighborhood for where we can run the business.
And then also on the guidance for this year and just thinking about the modeling it sounds like you’re opening up a few more waves in Canada than your normal store opening cadence.
Just from a modeling perspective how should we think about some of those store openings this year? And then just as a follow up to the U.S.
how does the real estate development market feel to you guys out there? Well typically in the U.S.
we open stores in three cycles.
Due to the number of stores we had in Canada we’re taking the approach that we’re going to open five cycles this year.
So think April May and every couple of months beyond that we’re going to open somewhere between 20 and 28 stores a cycle.
We haven’t defined all of that yet but we’re going to start in the greater Toronto area then we’re going to move to Western Canada then we’ll densify then we’ll go east and then we’ll densify again.
So we’ve got a good plan that is centered around our supply chain investments and the readiness of our distribution centers and we just think it makes sense to spread out those kinds of openings over more cycles than we typically would do in the U.S.
And your other question? Just how does the U.S.
real estate development market feel in the U.S.? Does it feel like it’s loosening up a little bit? Maybe a few more opportunities you guys are holding back a little bit at this point and looking to be a little bit more prudent in the growth? We’re not holding back at all.
We’re not capital constrained and we’re pursuing every project that we can find that’s going to generate the right kind of a return.
So I would tell you that the commercial real estate market is pretty much status quo and hasn’t changed all that much over the last couple of years.
There are pockets of opportunity and we’re anxious to either codevelop or develop on our own or be a partner in any development where we believe that it’s the right demographics and we can generate the right kind of return.
So we’re not holding back at all.
It’s just the environment is still a little cautious and a lot slower than we’d like it to be and hopefully things will change over the next couple of years.
Your next question will come from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
John can you give us a sense of what the revenue assumption is that’s baked into that $0.45 Canada dilution number this year? The revenue number I would tell you continues to move around even here for the reasons Gregg just outlined.
Store opening schedules continue to move around.
We’ve only really set in place in concrete the first two.
The rest of them still moving around a little bit.
So we’re hesitant to provide pretty specific guidance.
But what I would tell you is the expectation is that these stores will open and grow and have a very similar annualization process to what we see in the U.S.
So I think that’s probably the most important assumption and the revenue will move around based on what stores we get open when.
And then I think in the past you guys have said that you’d expect to recapture the Canadian losses that you accrue within two years of turning profitable.
So if you sum up the last three years - well the last two years plus this year - it’s a little over $1 maybe $1.10.
Do you still expect to get that back in earnings from Canada in ’14 or ’15? Or is the D&amp;A going to make that a longer process? Yeah I think you hit on it.
It will be a little bit longer.
We’re not talking about five years or anything like that but 2.5 3 years something like that our current modeling would say we’ll get it back in.
Something like that.
So a bit more than 2 years.
Our next question will come from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Just had a question on the fourth quarter in general.
Over the past few years you guys have really made a nice tradeoff between profitability and comps and this year it seemed to break down a little bit more than usual where you’ve made a decision not to be a Black Friday door buster competitor but the gross margins were down 60 basis points or so.
Can you talk a little bit about what you learned from the traffic being down and gross margins being down sort of how you might attack it differently in the fourth quarter of this year? You know Bob I would say that we actually think we performed quite well on Black Friday.
We saw the barbell intensify as Gregg mentioned between those early sales in Black Friday and then the lull and then coming back strong at the end of the holiday.
For us it was more about pretty weak seasonal businesses.
The weather as you know was very warm and our seasonal businesses which normally kick in in early November didn’t.
And then with all of the we think economic turmoil and the elections and fiscal cliff and all of that that it created that lull in between Black Friday and Christmas.
So we’ve talked about planning conservatively for this past year and we will again for next year for the fourth quarter.
And we think that the opportunity to pick up sales is really the other three quarters.
And in particular the second and third quarters this year.
So we continue to manage our business our goal is to maintain or grow gross margins within categories.
As you know it was a very competitive year this year and what we dropped was mainly reflecting the ongoing impact of 5% Rewards and PFresh combined with a little higher clearance in some of our seasonal categories.
But all in all I think the team did a great job of managing our inventory.
We did come out very clean.
Our inventory headed into the first quarter was exactly where it was last year on a per-store basis.
So we feel great about that.
The other thing I would add is you have to take a look at the mix of our business too and there was industry softness in electronics and toys which are really important to us.
There was not any must-have really super-hot new products that really drove consumers into the stores.
And as others have reported the toy business was a little softer than expected.
And the same was true in electronics as we were post-peak in terms of the digital cycles and video game business in particular were softer and that’s a huge business for us.
So just the cyclical nature of some of these businesses in addition to what Kathy said caused comps to be a bit softer than we expected.
But we are not bashful about being hypercompetitive and we want to be really super competitive every year as we head into the holiday season.
But we also want to have a balanced approach in making sure that it’s not all about market share.
We want to gain market share but do so profitably and trying to find that right mix.
And that’s the approach we’ll continue to take.
Our final question will come from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies &amp; Company.
On a similar topic of competition obviously you introduced the price match guarantee as a step in the right direction.
But given that that’s such a very low portion of the total transactions do you think you need to do more on just everyday price and staying more competitive than perhaps you even are today? Well we’re competitive day in and day out.
We have always maintained the position that we’re going to be competitive in the marketplace.
That’s a position that we’ve taken and as we continue to learn more and as more business migrates to the online channels we’re going to continue to sharpen up our online prices in that channel as well and be competitive with those competitors that are most meaningful in that channel.
So there will be some sharpening up there but I would tell you we offer fantastic value day in and day out.
Our pricing strategy has not changed and as we look across the competitive landscape we’re very very well-positioned.
Just one more if I could.
Can you just walk us through the path to $0.10 dilution getting to neutral over a few years? What causes that to happen on the credit card sale? The biggest impact is the impact of share repurchase as that levers against growing profits is the short story on that Dan and we’re happy to spend a little bit more time with you if you’d like.
But that’s the short story.
Okay well thank you very much.
That concludes Target’s fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Target Corporation’s first quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel chairman president and chief executive officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our 2013 first quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija executive vice president of merchandising; and John Mulligan executive vice president and chief financial officer.
This morning I'll provide a high-level summary of our first quarter results and strategic priorities for the rest of the year and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally John will provide more detail on our financial performance along with our outlook for second quarter and the full year.
Following John's remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question and answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments today via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP results is included in this morning's press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
Our first quarter earnings fell short of our expectations as we faced a choppy and challenging environment caused by unfavorable weather and this year’s payroll tax increase.
Our U.S.
business generated softer than expected sales and traffic particularly in our seasonal categories as we experienced one of the coldest spring seasons on record following record warmth a year ago.
While we are not satisfied with this quarter’s performance we remain highly confident in our strategy and our team’s ability to deliver strong results going forward across a broad range of conditions.
In the first quarter our U.S.
segment generated adjusted earnings per share of $1.05 down 5% from last year’s outstanding performance.
Our first quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.77 $0.28 lower than adjusted EPS driven primarily by $0.24 of dilution attributable to our Canadian segment.
As we mentioned in our fourth quarter call this year there are several notable changes affecting our financial reporting which John will cover in detail in a few minutes.
In the quarter comparable store sales declined 0.6% from last year’s 5.3% increase.
First quarter comparable transactions were down 1.9% following last year’s increase of 2% keeping us essentially flat on a two-year basis.
In much of the U.S.
traffic in our seasonal categories was unexpectedly soft as guests held off purchasing spring items in the face of cold and wet weather.
Our merchandising teams did a great job of reacting to the pace of sales in these categories retiming receipts and adjusting them downward so we are still in a healthy inventory position today.
Despite the weather impact on seasonal categories sales and traffic in our digital channels continued to grow at a robust pace.
Overall first quarter digital sales grew in the high teens and increased more than 20% net of our most seasonally sensitive categories.
Target’s mobile traffic and sales continue to grow at a triple-digit pace with mobile traffic representing more than 30% of our digital traffic in the first quarter.
We’re pleased with these results as mobile is rapidly becoming the key platform for digital commerce across all of retail and we know that Target guests have a particular affinity for mobile engagement.
After two years of preparation in March we opened our first 24 Canadian stores in the greater Toronto area and we’re very pleased with the reception we received from our new Canadian guests.
We experienced an unexpectedly strong surge in sales as guests were eager to see their newly opened Target store.
The mix of sales in home and apparel was even higher than expected as guests shopped our assortment of stylish owned brands and national brands responding to the outstanding value we provide on both.
Now that we are beyond the grand opening surge in this first cycle of stores we’re encouraging our new Canadian guests to make Target a preferred destination for categories throughout the store including food health beauty and household essentials as these categories play a key role in driving trip frequency over time.
As it is already in the U.S.
Red Card Rewards will be a key differentiator for Target in Canada and we’re encouraged that Red Card penetration of sales in our Canadian segment was ahead of plan in the first quarter.
Two weeks ago we opened our second wave of 24 Canadian stores in British Columbia Alberta and Manitoba and we’re very pleased with the initial guest response in these markets and the ability of our teams and systems to accommodate the increasing volume of traffic and sales.
We plan to open another 20 stores in Canada later in the quarter on the way to operating 124 Canadian stores by the end of this year.
This means we expect to open more Target stores in our first year in Canada than we opened in our first 10 years in the United States an incredible accomplishment that has required unprecedented effort by teams throughout the company.
In the U.S.
we opened six new stores in the first quarter including an additional City Target location in Los Angeles.
We now operate six City Target locations in four cities and we continue to be pleased with the results in these stores.
Sales have essentially met our expectations and the mix of home and apparel has been better than expected.
Similar to our Canadian stores we are focused on our City Target stores on driving sales and visits in our frequency and commodity categories changing guest habits and inspiring them to visit us more often for both want and need.
In the first quarter we also closed the sale of our U.S.
credit card receivables portfolio to TD Bank Group and began deploying proceeds to reduce debt and repurchase shares.
We’re very pleased to have reached the right agreement with the right partner in a transaction that removed these more volatile assets from our balance sheet.
The portfolio continues to perform well generating meaningful income for Target through our profit sharing arrangement with TD.
As we look ahead to the second quarter and the remainder of the year we remain cautiously optimistic about both the macroeconomic environment and consumer behavior.
Both of these business drivers continue to reflect slow uneven growth and ongoing cross currents of positive and negative indicators just as they have for the past few years.
For example while we’re pleased that the housing market has stabilized and jobless claims have been declining we’re mindful that household formation and job growth remain particularly weak among younger demographic groups.
In addition guests continue to face the headwinds of this year’s payroll tax increase and a meaningful lack of income growth.
With these considerations in mind we remain focused on strategies that position our business for profitable growth both today and in the long term.
We continue to invest in initiatives that integrate multiple channels like our recent beta launch of Cartwheel the result of our collaboration with Facebook along with tests of same-day delivery with Google and eBay.
And we’re testing opportunities within our own supply chain that will leverage our existing store and distribution assets to provide additional services and capabilities our guests value most.
We’re investing to drive adoption of our 5% Red Card Rewards and Pharmacy Rewards loyalty programs which have proven to be unique and powerful differentiators and sales drivers for Target.
Both of these programs offer guests the opportunity for even greater savings leading them to shop more merchandise categories more often.
We’re investing in efforts to better serve all of our guests driving traffic and sales by segmenting our stores and assortments to match local tastes and preferences and we continue to offer digital innovations that create a link between our stores and social media.
We’re continuing to pursue new and differentiated merchandise in all of our assortments including our recently announced partnership with Warner Brothers and DC Entertainment to feature Justice League merchandise across multiple categories.
Kathy will provide more detail on programs like these that create a sense of discovery for our guests while deepening their loyalty for Target.
Beyond the value we provide on exclusive well-designed merchandise we continue to invest in everyday low prices which we reduce even further in our weekly ad.
In addition we stand behind our prices with policy to match local competitor print ads as well as our largest online competitors.
And through Red Card Rewards and Pharmacy Rewards our most loyal guests have the opportunity to save even more.
Throughout the company we take a disciplined approach to the deployment of cash combining strong financial rigor and capital investment decisions with a focus on returning cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And of course none of our efforts would be possible without the outstanding work of our more than 360 000 team members who greet and serve our guests every day carefully manage inventory and expenses in a challenging environment and proudly represent our brand in the communities where they live.
In spite of first quarter tax increases unseasonably cold weather and challenging prior year comparisons our underlying business continues to be stable and healthy.
Our team is focused on driving outstanding results across categories channels regions and guest segments every day even while we continue to position our business for success with investments in new stores and formats and more flexible ways of serving our guests.
We believe that our outstanding team aligned in support of a well-defined strategy will drive strong performance both this year and over time.
Before I turn the call over to Kathy I want to take a moment to thank Terry Scully who retired from his role as president of Target’s financial and retail services team in April.
Terry has been a valuable member of the Target team for nearly 35 years and under his leadership the financial and retail services team has played a key role in strengthening guest loyalty and delivering substantial profitable growth for Target.
Over the last few years Terry and his team have worked tirelessly to find the right partner to purchase our credit card receivables portfolio culminating in this quarter’s sale.
And finally I want to pause to express our condolences to the residents of Moore Oklahoma including Target team members guests and their families who were affected by this week’s devastating tornado.
We have been working with emergency responders community organizations and local schools to evaluate immediate needs and ways that Target can help.
And yesterday we announced that Target is donating $250 000 in support of relief efforts $200 000 of cash and in kind donations to emergency responders and community organizations including the Red Cross and the Salvation Army and $50 000 to support rebuilding efforts at the two elementary schools that were badly damaged by the tornado.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on first quarter results and outline initiatives for the second quarter and beyond.
Kathy? Thanks Greg.
Those of you who have listened to our conference calls over time know that often when we’re asked about weather impacts we point out that on average the weather is average.
This has certainly proven true in the last two spring seasons.
Last year it was an unusually early and warm spring across much of the country.
We saw very strong sales in our seasonal weather-sensitive categories.
This year in the face of a cold and late spring sales were quite soft in those same categories.
And while we are committed to delivering strong results in all types of environments we believe it’s important to understand the impact of this year’s weather on our first quarter sales results.
Specifically first quarter comparable store sales in weather-dependent categories like seasonal apparel lawn patio and sporting goods lagged the rest of our assortments by 6-7 percentage points.
This sales gap was even wider in areas of the country which experienced below-average temperatures and which was much smaller in areas that experienced more normal spring temperatures like the western U.S.
Looking more broadly at our category results first quarter comparable store sales continued to be strongest in less discretionary categories such as food health beauty and household essentials all of which experienced low single digit increases.
Our home and apparel category were both down in the low single digits and hardlines saw a mid single digit decline in comps.
Within hardlines electronics continues to see softness in videogames along with televisions particularly early in the quarter as last year’s 53rd accounting week moved Super Bowl related sales out of the quarter.
As Greg mentioned our guest continue to shop cautiously planning their spending and sticking to shopping lists and they continue to feel the burden of economic pressures.
Recent guest surveys indicate that three-quarters of our guest are aware of this year’s payroll tax increase and among those the majority have noticed the impact of the tax increase on their paychecks and indicate that it’s affected their spending.
Basket data confirms that needs-based trips have been increasing while wants-based trips focused on discretionary categories have been declining.
And notably recent data from the Conference Board indicates that while sentiment among consumers regarding their current situation has been improving since late last year consumer sentiment regarding the future has been declining in recent months.
To drive traffic and sales in this environment we know it’s more important than ever to provide value to our guests on a high quality differentiated assortment delivered through a convenient shopping experience.
In the digital space we continue to apply a test and learn approach when rolling out applications and capabilities so we can determine what works best for our guests.
We’re pleased that our digital traffic grew faster than industry benchmarks again this quarter.
We continue to explore ways to integrate digital technologies with social media and our stores to provide a unique shopping experience for our guests.
This quarter’s beta launch of Cartwheel which we developed in collaboration with Facebook is a perfect example.
This first of a kind experience gives guests a fun way to save on hundreds of items throughout our stores.
Upon authenticating this application through their Facebook profile guests receive ten spots to fill with deals of their choice from among hundreds of items throughout our store.
Depending on the product the deals feature a range of discounts and expiration dates and guests can switch between offers at any time.
Deals are redeemed at checkout in our stores either by scanning a single barcode on a mobile device or a printout from our desktop computer.
Guests can share Cartwheel with their friends on Facebook to show off their latest finds and see what their friends are buying.
And the more guests interact with Cartwheel by choosing and redeeming deals and sharing those deals with friends the more offers they unlock for themselves.
We launched Cartwheel in beta and we’re encouraging guests to provide feedback so we can make ongoing real-time enhancements to the Cartwheel experience.
Initial signups for Cartwheel have exceeded expectations.
Thousands of guests signed up in the first week and we saw a meaningful increase when we added a link to Cartwheel on Target.com.
More than 10% of guests who have signed up already have redeemed Cartwheel offers in one of our stores.
Also this quarter we launched a beauty box test to understand our guests’ appetite to pay for samples of beauty products.
We tested this offer on Target’s Facebook Style page and sold through our inventory within a week.
In addition the offer generated favorable media coverage and positive feedback in social media.
Based on these results we will continue to explore ways to surprise and delight guests with box-based offers that support our Expect More Pay Less brand promise.
In March we were very pleased to announce our agreement to acquire Chefs Catalog and assets of Cooking.com in two separate transactions.
These ecommerce acquisitions are aimed at expanding Target’s presence in the growing cooking and kitchenware market.
We’ve combined the assets of Cooking.com with Chefs Catalog to create a new wholly owned subsidiary which will continue to operate the two brands under their current names.
We believe these transactions present a strategic growth opportunity to serve guests who are increasingly looking online for cooking solutions to make their lives easier from utensils and cookware to recipes.
These strategic transactions provide us a great way to address this growing opportunity and provide expanded online options for our guests.
In select markets we’re continuing to test same-day delivery in partnership with Google and eBay.
Our focus in these tests is to understand the level of guest engagement and this fulfillment opportunity.
These projects which are still in the test phase continue to provide valuable information on the store back room capabilities and processes needed to support this offering.
And as we mentioned last quarter this year we’re launching our own test of flexible fulfillment in the Minneapolis market.
This month we launched a test in which team members are given the opportunity to order online and pick up in store.
We will use our team members’ feedback to improve the process and experience before the pilot becomes guest-facing later in the year.
Two other team member pilots pay in store to pick up at another store and pay online and ship from store are planned for late in the year.
In both our stores and online we feature great designers and brands and continue to roll out new unique merchandise that creates a sense of discovery for our guests.
Our goal is to show guests that design means more than fashion and that great design doesn’t have to mean high prices.
In home we continue to be pleased with results from our partnership with Nate Burkus.
The collection includes a growing list of products in a wide range of categories including bedding bath accessories lighting rugs and stationery.
We also continue to see great results from the rollout of the Threshold brand which is replacing Target Home our largest owned brand.
We debuted Threshold last fall and guests continue to respond to this fully redesigned high quality collection that’s inspiring them to update their homes.
To celebrate this new brand earlier this month Target constructed a life-sized dollhouse in New York’s iconic Grand Central Terminal where guests could explore a two-story seven-room dollhouse decorated with more than 3 500 pieces from the Threshold collection.
Select furnishings were tagged with QR codes to be shoppable right from the dollhouse.
In our stationery category we’re excited about our collaboration with Todd Oldham on the Kid Made Modern collection which offers creative activity kits and supplies to inspire kids through art.
The collection has a clean simple and fresh design that’s gender-neutral and age-appropriate to inspire all children and parents.
We launched this collection of creative design tools late last year and set a new collection this spring.
Following our successful first quarter partnership with Prabal Gurung and Kate Young we recently announced our latest design collaboration with Lauren Bush Lauren and the rollout of the Feed USA + Target collection.
In late June we’ll feature the lifestyle collection of stylish products in home sporting goods stationery apparel and accessories.
The collection which reflects a modern Americana aesthetic while supporting an important cause includes more than 50 products across a range of price points with most items less than $25.
Each item in the collection has an associated number of meals listed with it and with each sale Target will donate the monetary equivalent of that number of meals to Feeding America the nation’s leading domestic hunger relief charity and a partner of Target since 2001.
During the time that the products will be available we expect to provide more than 10 million meals for families across the U.S.
In Canada we’ve been very pleased with the results from our partnership with Roots Outfitters an iconic Canadian brand that offers quality craftsmanship and comfortable styling on a line of apparel for men women and kids.
And we’re very excited that we recently announced a fall partnership with Beaver Canoe a member of the Roots Canada family to offer an exclusive collection of cabin chic apparel and home items in our Canadian stores this fall.
Entertainment had a great first quarter including the release of our exclusive deluxe version of “The 20/20 Experience” from Justin Timberlake.
The strength of the guest response put this release among the top three at target in the last 10 years.
We followed this success with releases of exclusive albums from The Band Perry and Michael Buble in April.
In Electronics we’ve partnered with Wired magazine to offer a custom curated assortment of consumer electronics and gadgets tested by their editors featuring their expert tips on usage and key features.
And in April Target became the exclusive mass retailer to debut the Beats by Dr.
Dre Neon Mixer headphones available in eye-catching green orange pink yellow and blue.
We’ve long known the value we can create through segmentation of our stores and assortments based on store location and demographics.
We continue to develop tools and processes that allow us to further localize assortments and experiences to match the specific markets where our stores are located.
We are focused on providing a deeper presence of locally relevant products and brands across the store including categories like food beauty home and entertainment.
And we continue to invest in unique multichannel experiences like Cartwheel that allow guests to choose their own offers and further integrate their target experience into their social networks.
Now John will share his insights on our first quarter financial performance and our outlook for the second quarter and full year.
John? Thanks Kathy.
As Greg mentioned we’re disappointed with our first quarter financial performance.
Sales in the U.S.
were softer than expected even relative to updated guidance we provided in April causing our reported earnings per share to fall short of our updated guidance as well.
Adjusted earnings per share which measures the results of our U.S.
operations were $1.05 representing a 5% decrease from last year.
First quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.77 reflecting losses on early retirement of debt which reduced our EPS by $0.41 EPS dilution related to our Canadian segment of $0.24 and net accounting gains of $0.36 related to the sale of our credit card portfolio.
Before I turn to our segment results I want to remind you of a couple of factors that will be affecting our financial reporting this year.
First with the sale of our receivables beginning with the first quarter we are no longer reporting a credit card segment and we now have two reportable segments a new U.S.
segment and a Canadian segment.
In the first quarter we began recognizing profit sharing payments from TD net of operating expenses within SG&amp;A expense in the U.S.
segment.
To provide context in an April 16 8-K we provided revised quarterly segment reporting for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 in which credit card revenues net of expenses from our former U.S.
credit card segment were recognized within SG&amp;A expenses in the new U.S.
segment.
In this year’s financial reporting revised 2012 U.S.
segment results will be presented as prior year results.
To provide additional context this year’s rate analysis includes a comparison to last year’s performance in the historical U.S.
retail segment.
For simplicity to the extent that’s possible in my discussions today I will focus only on this year’s U.S.
segment results compared with last year’s revised U.S.
segment results.
Second as I mentioned in our last conference call we’ve made changes to our vendor agreements regarding payments received in support of our marketing programs.
As a result in fiscal 2013 these payments will be recognized as a reduction in our cost of sales rather than a reduction to SG&amp;A expense.
This change is expected to create equivalent year over year increases in our U.S.
segment gross margin and SG&amp;A expense rates of 20 to 25 basis points without affecting EBITDA and EBIT margin rates.
With that as context I’ll turn to the first quarter performance in our new U.S.
segment.
Total sales increased 0.5% on a 0.6% decline in comparable store sales combined with the contribution from new stores.
Among the drivers of comparable store sales traffic was down 1.9% partially offset by a 1.3% increase in average ticket.
Our first quarter traffic decline essentially offset a 2% increase a year ago.
As we told you at the time we believed first quarter 2012 was unusually strong due to the warm weather and that proved to be the case as full year 2012 traffic was up 0.5%.
While we expect traffic will continue to be challenging given our near term outlook for the economy and the consumer we don’t expect to continue to see traffic declines of the magnitude we saw in the first quarter.
With the added pressure on household budges from the recent payroll tax increase the simplicity and compelling nature of our 5% Red Card Rewards discount is clearly attracting an increasing number of guests.
The penetration of sales on Red Cards reached 17.1% in the first quarter up from less than 12% a year ago.
While discounts from this program continue to put pressure on our gross margin rate this investment paid back through the benefit of increased loyalty and sales.
We continue to see households increase their spending more than 50% on average when they begin using a Red Card.
And in Kansas City which is a year ahead of the rest of the country penetration is above 20% and the rate of increase has shown no sign of slowing down.
Our U.S.
segment gross margin rate was 30.7% in the first quarter up about 50 basis points from a year ago.
The change in recognition of vendor payments explained about 20 basis points of this increase.
The remainder of the improvement was driven by rate increases within categories which more than offset continuing gross margin rate pressure from our sales driving Red Card rewards and remodel programs.
Every year Kathy’s team works hard to incrementally improve gross margin rates within categories and the year over year benefit from these efforts can vary meaningfully from quarter to quarter.
In the first quarter the magnitude of category rate improvement was stronger than normal and we’re expecting to see a more modest benefit in upcoming quarters.
Our first quarter U.S.
segment SG&amp;A rate of 20.3% was about 130 basis points higher than last year’s revised U.S.
segment rate.
The primary drivers of this variance are about 50 basis points resulting from lower earnings on the credit card portfolio and about 40 basis points related to technology including our multichannel efforts.
In addition the change in vendor payments drove the rate higher by about 20 basis points and of course with lower than expected sales we saw less overall expense leverage than we anticipated.
On this last point it’s important to note that our first quarter results reflected meaningful store productivity improvements and the entire organization did a great job controlling expenses.
As I mentioned in the last call we’re anticipating incremental expense pressure from technology investments throughout 2013 and we plan to offset that pressure through disciplined expense management across the enterprise as the year progresses.
Also I think it’s important to provide more context for the decline in our earnings from the credit card portfolio because the portfolio continues to experience outstanding performance.
However there are three separate reasons which drove lower earnings from the credit card portfolio in the first quarter.
First the asset is smaller than a year ago.
Second we’re annualizing a $35 million reserve release in the first quarter of 2012.
And finally we began sharing portfolio profits with TD after the sale closed in March.
Notably among these three reasons profit sharing drove less than half of the year over year reduction in Target’s earnings from the credit card portfolio and we expect all of these pressures will continue for the next several quarters.
Moving down the U.S.
segment P&amp;L we reported a first quarter EBITDA rate of 10.4% about 80 basis points lower than last year’s revised U.S.
segment rate.
With about 50 basis points related to our credit card portfolio that means our U.S.
retail operations accounted for only a 30-basis point decline in the EBIT rate compared with last year which is relatively stable when one considers that sales were unexpectedly soft this year and we were annualizing a 5.3% comp last year.
In our Canadian segment we generated $86 million in sales from 24 stores that were open on average a little more than half the quarter.
Whenever we open a new store in the U.S.
there is a rush of traffic and sales as curious guests shop it for the first time but the rush in Canada exceeded our expectations.
The first quarter gross margin rate in Canada was more than 38% which is much stronger than our long term expectations for a couple of reasons.
First in new stores we experienced a strong initial mix of home and apparel sales as guests end to shop these categories on their first trip to these stores.
In addition given the short time these stores have been open they have not yet experienced any meaningful transitions or clearance activity so this quarter’s Canadian gross margin rate didn’t reflect the impact of markdowns we’d expect to see over time.
First quarter Canadian segment P&amp;L was dominated by startup expenses related to the 100 additional stores we’re preparing to open later in the quarter.
For the quarter Canadian segment operations drove $0.24 of dilution to our consolidated earnings per share.
With the sale of our credit card portfolio in March we recognized a pretax accounting gain of $391 of which $166 million was cash received in excess of book value and $225 million was related to a beneficial interest asset.
This asset effectively represents a receivable for the present value of future profit sharing payments we expect to receive from TD on the credit card balances transferred at the time of the sale.
Going forward a portion of the profit sharing payments from TD will be applied to unwind the beneficial interest assets.
We expect to fully unwind it in three to four years and expect to reduce its size by about 50% in the first 12 months following the sale.
Also following the portfolio sale we began deploying proceeds to retire debt and repurchase shares.
Concurrent with the sale we repaid at par $1.5 billion in funding that was previously backed by the receivables.
We also launched debt tender offers to repurchase another $1 billion in high coupon debt which led to losses recorded in interest expense of $445 million in the quarter.
Of course these tender offers created a meaningful economic benefit not reflected in the accounting for these losses.
During the quarter we also paid off commercial paper that we had used to provide short term funding following the $2 billion in debt maturities last January.
Finally there is another $500 million maturity in June which we expect to fund with proceeds from the sale.
We’re pleased that with the completion of the sale we were able to remove these more volatile assets from our balance sheet and quickly reduce a meaningful amount of debt that was funding them.
Over time we expect to apply the remainder of the proceeds from the portfolio sale to repurchase shares.
In the first quarter we invested $547 million to repurchase 8.5 million Target shares at an average price of just over $64.
For the full year we continue to expect to invest more than $2 million to retire shares and we’ll continue to govern the pace of execution in support of our goal to maintain our strong investment grade credit ratings.
We paid first quarter dividends of $232 million marking the 182nd consecutive quarterly dividend we’ve paid since becoming a public company.
We will recommend that the board approve an increase in the dividend later this year which would make 2013 our 42nd straight year in which we increased the annual dividend.
Now let’s turn to our expectations for the second quarter and the year.
In the U.S.
we remain cautious about the near term sales environment given the economic and consumer challenges Kathy and Greg mentioned earlier.
Yet with the recent weather challenge behind us and easier comparison from last year we expect second quarter comparable store sales will recover into the 2% to 3% range.
So far in May we’ve continued to see cautious buying behavior from our guests but the pace of sale has supported our view of the quarter.
In the U.S.
segment we expect the second quarter gross margin rate will be up slightly from last year driven entirely by the change in recognition of vendor payments.
We expect our second quarter SG&amp;A expense rate will be just over 21% nearly a full percentage point higher than last year’s revised U.S.
segment rate driven primarily by a smaller benefit from credit card income and the change in recognition of vendor payments.
This would put our second quarter EBITDA margin rate at about 10.5% and with expected leverage on [D&amp;A] an EBIT margin rate of 7.5%.
In Canada second quarter sales will ramp up meaningfully from the first quarter pace yet startup expenses will continue to dominate the P&amp;L.
As a result for the quarter we anticipate expenses from our Canadian operations including interest expense measured outside the segment will create $0.16 of dilution to our earnings per share.
We continue to expect Canadian dilution will come down further in the third quarter and by the fourth quarter we expect our Canadian operations will be slightly accretive to our consolidated earnings.
Altogether we expect second quarter adjusted EPS of $1.09 to $1.19.
We expect our GAAP EPS will be $0.19 lower than adjusted EPS in the range of $0.90 to $1.00 reflecting $0.16 of dilution due to Canada and $0.03 of dilution related to the unwind of the beneficial interest asset related to the receivables sale.
For the year we have an even more tempered view of sales than we did three months ago.
Without some unexpected improvement in the economy and the consumer our full year comparable store sales will likely grow in the 2% to 2.5% range somewhat below the 2.7% we outlined at the beginning of the year.
This updated view of sales has also tempered our view of full year earnings per share causing us to take our expected range for adjusted EPS down $0.15 to the $4.70 to $4.90 range.
We expect full year GAAP EPS to be $0.58 lower than adjusted EPS in the $4.12 to $4.32 range reflecting Canadian segment dilution [unintelligible] on early debt retirement and net gains from the credit card portfolio sale.
Longer term we continue to feel very good about the health of our business and the steps we are taking to keep our business relevant over time.
We continue to invest in our remodel program loyalty initiatives technology the integration of our store and digital experience the new City Target format and our Canadian segment.
Yet even with those initiatives we continue to expect to generate far more cash than we need to invest in our business giving us the opportunity to return billions of dollars to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
As a result we continue to expect Target will continue to deliver earnings per share of $8 or more by 2017 combined with a dividend of $3 or more that same year.
That concludes today’s prepared remarks and now Greg Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator instructions.]  Your first question comes from the line of Peter Benedict of Robert Baird.
Just on the U.S.
gross margin performance can you give us a sense of maybe what that Red Card impact was in the quarter? You know the combination of that with the store remodel program very consistent with what we’ve seen in the past several quarters.
Somewhere between 25 to 30 basis points of impact.
You kind of said for the year you’re now thinking 2-2.5.
I assume that still has a pretty modest view for comping in the fourth quarter.
Is that correct?  And then secondly when you think out beyond do you guys think maybe 2-3 is the longer term comp profile for the business?  Or do you think it could still be north of 3 just when you think of a more normalized environment on an annual basis? I think your view of Q4 is right.
I think in particular this Q4 will be particularly difficult given the 53rd week and the calendar shifts this year.
You’ll recall we’re going to lose six business days between Thanksgiving and Christmas this year which will make the comp feel much more difficult than it otherwise might.
I think over the longer term we continue to think a 3 comp is about the right place to be.
If you look again at our company over 15 years or 20 years if you net out the contribution of new store annualization we essentially ran pretty consistently a 3 comp over time through good times and tougher times.
So we think in an economic environment that might just be a little bit better than today it doesn’t have to improve drastically but a little better than today we think a 3 comp makes sense.
And on the Canadian D&amp;A what do you think the run rate is for that once you get out?  You’ve opened a bunch of the stores.
Once you get those to the end of the year what kind of run rates were you thinking about for Canadian D&amp;A? I think you’ll continue to see D&amp;A grow throughout this year as we continue to put significant assets into service.
And we’ll provide a little bit more color as we get later into the year and have a little bit more clarity about sales margin and the entire P&amp;L.
We’ll provide a little bit more clarity about the entire P&amp;L for Canada.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Naughton of Piper Jaffray.
In terms of just dissecting the comp in Q1 transaction trends as you mentioned were relatively stable on a two-year basis and didn’t improve from Q4.
But the units per transaction were down 50 basis points and I think that’s the first time since ’09.
Just wondering what would explain that decline given the increase in the remodel program from Q1 last year.
Actually I’m not quite clear on your question.
Units per transaction in the first quarter were up year over year.
Help me with that again? Oh I thought that were down 50 basis points maybe I’m missing something.
No selling price per unit was down 60 basis points.
Entirely mix.
But units were up consistently for some of the reasons you described.
And then Gregg you touched briefly on the price matching.
Just curious if you are seeing the number of request for the price match change at all.
And has there been any competitive response to that in the marketplace? You know both the stores with the matching of competitors’ physical ads and the online match has been fairly stable and has not grown materially over the last quarter.
So it still represents a very small portion of our transactions and that’s because our everyday price and our promotional prices are so strong.
There’s generally not much of a gap if any.
So we continue to watch our competitive prices on a day-in and day-out basis and move where we have to be competitive in the marketplace and so we expect over time this not to change that much.
And then just lastly on digital you’re obviously seeing some nice traction nice growth outside of the seasonal categories.
Can you talk about just the impact on margin for that sale today?  Is it dilutive?  Or is it accretive to the margin?  And how are you planning that over time? First I start with how we think about this longer term and we think about from a longer-term perspective sales through all of our channels regardless of the channel need to generate a return and a return on investment that’s similar to what we see in our current U.S.
store base.
What we see today is honestly we’re learning a lot about that channel and a lot of this depends on how we’re going to ultimately [settle on] a share count that our guest wants to interact with us how much is shipped from store how much is shipped to store.
That will have a significant impact ultimately on the EBITDA margin rates of that particular channel.
But I think once again depending on where those EBITDA margin rates land sales or capital will move around and we feel very confident that we’ll get back to a return that makes sense.
Having said all that I think as it relates to the rates embedded within that channel we feel very comfortable that ultimately that can operate at that 10% EBITDA rate that we’ve said is part of our long-range plan.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Nemer of Wells Fargo Securities.
First I’m wondering if you can comment on sales in geographic areas that had more neutral weather like Florida.
Were the transactions and the comps positive in those markets? You know we did see better results in areas that had more normal weather.
So that would primarily be the west coast.
And they were toughest in those seasonal categories where we saw weather off the most and that would be primarily in the Midwest.
So we did see quite a swing between the different geographies.
And then in terms of the second quarter guidance do we assume that there’s some incremental markdown risk in seasonal categories?  You did mention that within categories the rate improvement would be a little softer in the second quarter than in the first quarter.
So just wondering what the markdown risk is in seasonal categories.
Yeah like we’ve said the teams did a very good job of responding to the sales shortfall and retiming receipts and making cancellations.
We’re going to know a heck of a lot more in the next 30 days as we see what happens and how the sales of these categories play out before we have to take markdowns on the Fourth of July.
If we get really good weather and we have good sell-throughs then we’re going to be right back on plan.
If things stay damp and cool for an extended period of time there might be some risk.
But we don’t expect to see a significant risk whatsoever.
So we’re talking about things on the edges right now.
The other thing I’d add a little bit hard to see with the inventory on the balance sheet the inventory per store in the U.S.
is essentially flat to last year.
All of the inventory build year over year is attributable to Canada.
So we feel really good about where the inventory positions are in aggregate.
And then just lastly if we look at your operating expenses in the U.S.
retail segment dollar growth accelerated a little bit versus the last few quarters.
I’m assuming a lot of that is technology investments.
But given the more moderated view of comps for the full year could we see the dollar growth potentially come back down a little bit? Yeah I think you’re right first of all that the vast majority of that is multichannel technology and we’ve said you know a little bit of missed timing here.
We expect to offset that on the year with expense savings and improvements we’re making in our business but the investment coming in a little ahead of that.
To your second point I think that’s absolutely right and it’s interesting we said this last year when our sales accelerate or decelerate rapidly from our expectations we tend to see our SG&amp;A lag both directions.
It doesn’t climb as fast when sales go up like last year and doesn’t come down quite as quickly when we see sales decelerate.
And as we adapt to wherever sales are going to be you’ll see our SG&amp;A settle in at a more appropriate level.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin McGranahan of Bernstein.
First question on Canada.
Understand that the gross margin rate of 38% is not the long run rate.
But where do you think that settles out and was the 38% above where you expected even kind of adjusting for the mix that you saw? Yeah I would say out of the box the 38% was a little higher than we expected because the mix was a little bit better than we expected out of the box.
Now whether it’s in Canada or the U.S.
clearly when we open a new store we hit a higher gross margin rate.
But the mix was even higher than the higher that we expected.
So we do expect that to settle down and be slightly higher than what it is in the U.S.
because we expect the mix to be a little bit better than it is here in the U.S.
Of course and as the consumables business ramps up mix is down but from a productivity perspective can you tell anything yet on these first stores that  are open in terms of opening expectations relative to what you would have thought?  Or was it just too much hoopla that you can’t discern anything yet? Well I wouldn’t call it hoopla.
I would just say that the guests were very very excited and we experienced tremendous surges in sales.
And it’s just very very early to draw any conclusions and we really wanted to deliver a great experience.
And so to a certain extent we went in with staffing levels to make sure that we were taking care of the guests at the front end and we had the right team members there for the supply chain and we had the right teams on the sales floor.
So we know that over time and in our run safe condition we have to work hard at making sure that we get our productivity levels where the business model dictates them to be and we know our gross margins will settle in and we’ve got to become more productive and run the business.
Over time our consumables share will grow because that’s the hardest trip to change with the guest and so we’re going to continue to focus on those frequency oriented categories so that we can not only get the good mix that we’re getting but we want to now start driving more trip frequency into the store.
And we didn’t want to come out of the box by hitting those categories too hard because we wanted to make sure that we led with our strengths and we wanted to make sure that all the supply chains and the operational disciplines were in place.
We feel very confident now that they are so we’re ready to start making those kinds of adjustments in merchandising and supply chain and store operations to start refining the model.
Second on the credit I actually thought the contribution of $105 million while you explained why it was lower it seemed to me it was higher than I would have expected especially given the bad debt reserve release last year.
Is there anything there that reflects the $105 million profit share?  I think the one thing I would remind you is we only had a half a quarter’s worth of profit sharing with TD.
Next quarter we’ll have a full quarter’s worth of profit sharing with TD.
So the $105 million was really a $210 million quarterly run rate? No because that’s net of our operating expenses as well.
And then finally just coming back to SG&amp;A the dollars were up I think $233 million.
If I x out the credit difference of $35 million the vendor allowance of $13 million the technology spend it still looks like the growth is pretty healthy.
John I know you mentioned that there’s a lag just in terms of how quickly you can get after that if sales are disappointing.
Would you also expect some of the expense things you’re doing on a longer term basis to impact that?  And I guess my question is can we see better performance out of that line?  Because it sounds like the Q2 guidance doesn’t get us there.
No question.
And what we’re seeing I think we talked about this a little bit five weeks ago when we were together you’ll see the ramp up in our expense initiatives throughout the year and through next year actually.
Many of them are a little bit longer lead times to pull out expense.
You know all the easy stuff we’ve done a long long time ago.
So we do expect through time SG&amp;A will come down and manage to a level that is more appropriate.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays.
I guess the question that I have for you is twofold but it revolves around traffic.
When you look at the initiatives that you have in place Red Card and Pfresh and I understand the seasonal piece Q1 this year versus last year but when you think conceptually traffic was down in the fourth quarter and that was down again in the first quarter how do you sort of get us comfortable with essentially the efficiency and the effectiveness of these initiatives over the longer term period?  And the second question that I have is the lower comp assumption for this year can you maybe just break down the traffic component in that new 2-2.5% expectation? The traffic you know it was a disappointing quarter for us.
We had very very strong traffic last year.
There was pluses and minuses throughout 2012 and we expect traffic trends to get stronger as the year goes on.
And we have all of our initiatives designed to not only deepen the relationship but build frequency.
So we’ll perhaps be a little bit more aggressive on price to look at the competitive environment.
It was a little bit more aggressive than it had been in the past where there was more emphasis on price and that can I think impact it a little bit.
But overall we really expect to be able to generate traffic levels that are flattish give or take over normalized periods of time.
And Bob the other thing I would add I don’t think we need to run traffic numbers like we did last year in first quarter to generate that 3 comp.
I think if you look over the past several years about a half a point of traffic combined with ticket gets us to a 3 comp.
And that’s about the formula that we feel really good about.
The only other thing that I would add is this time of year our seasonal categories can be a big traffic driver for Target and clearly they weren’t in the quarter and they were last year.
So all of the things you mentioned 5% Pfresh help us all year long but during key seasonal timeframes we need those categories to drive traffic as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig from Citigroup.
A lot of conversation regarding mobile and digital traffic.
Can you also talk about what conversion was like during the quarter? Our conversion has been improving of the prior year.
And we were up slightly in this quarter as well.
So we’re really pleased with improvements that we’ve made on the site but I’ll tell you we still feel we have a long way to go with conversion and we are very committed to continuing to work on our navigation and our search function the basic functionality of our site to continue to make big improvements there.
I think the other thing I’d add there is we have a little bit of a mixed headwind which is positive from our perspective.
Mobile in general </strong>and our mobile is growing much much faster than the site.
We think that’s good because we think that’s where things are going and it also shows that she is spending a lot of time with us on the mobile applications we have but conversion’s just naturally lower there so it creates a little bit of a mixed number as we look at the aggregate.
So if you look at conversion on our site it’s up to last year.
If you look at conversion on mobile it’s up to last year but because of the big growth in mobile to John’s point conversion comes down slightly in aggregate.
And then maybe just a broader question.
Can you just talk about how you’re positioning yourself in terms of taking advantage of the Affordable Care Act? I think we’ve said a couple of times the Affordable Care Act the changes for us will not be material externally.
We’re still continuing to work through all the regulations and we are hopeful that we will exactly do but it won’t be material changes to what we’re doing today or financially from a financial perspective.
And I think Gregg touched on segmentation and how you’re looking to match local tastes and preferences.
Where are you?  I know there was a lot of work done in Canada but where are you domestically in terms of that? We feel good about where we are.
We’ve been working on this for a long time and we continue to deploy resources to get better and better at that.
This is just a long term initiative that we have to continue to focus on whether it’s in food whether it’s demographics whether it is ethnic groups.
We’ve just got to continue to get better at our localization efforts.
And we think we’ve made good progress there and we’re going to continue to focus on it.
Was there anything that you learned from Canada that you could go back and apply to the U.S.?  Or was it exactly what you expected and you’re just continuing on the path? I would just say it’s a little early to learn from Canada and bring that back to the U.S.
I will tell you though we learned a lot from City Target that we have applied to Canada.
So as you know those stores are in dense urban areas and so are our Canada stores.
So we took a lot of that learning and the testing that we did last year and applied that to what we’re doing in Canada.
And throughout this year of course we’ll be reading the Canada results and bringing that back to the U.S.
But the same teams work on localization for both countries.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Horvers from JPMorgan.
First on the top line in the home and apparel categories can you talk about the stacked comps that you had in the first quarter and broadly how those categories have trended over time the past few quarters?  When we looked at the stack comps we feel a lot better about it just looking at this quarter.
Both were positive if we look on a stack basis.
Going forward our compare in second quarter is not nearly as difficult as our first quarter so we would expect our comps to improve.
And over time we want that two-year stack to improve.
We’re not happy with flat or up slightly.
We want to make sure that we’re making progress there.
But it was on a two-year basis better.
Apparel for instance the two-year stack is around a 2.
Running that consistently through time we’d feel really good about running 2s in apparel.
And as Kathy said home is positive and that’s a big improvement from where home has been over the past several years.
So on a two-year basis we feel good about both those businesses.
And then also in thinking about the EPS pressure from Canada can you talk about how much of the expenses in the first quarter are one-time in nature pre-opens and so forth?  And as you’re thinking about the guide for the second quarter a similar question.
How much of that expense pressure is actually something that goes away in future quarters? That’s difficult to parse out and the example I would give you is exactly what Gregg said where we started with the stores staffed very heavily.
We know through time we have to refine that model.
That one-time expense or operating expense certainly the expenses related to hiring team members early and training them at the next cycle of stores we’ll open up that is all one-time and will drift away.
What I’d tell you through time we expect ultimately well down the road to get to an SG&amp;A rate that makes sense and productivities that are very similar to the U.S.
So as I said before right now expense dominates the P&amp;L in Canada.
And as we get more clarity on sales margin operations later in the year we’ll provide a lot more color about how we expect those stores to operate.
Just in terms of being in the stores it seems like at times you’re actually too thin on inventory in some of the discretionary categories whether that’s home or apparel.
What’s the internal discussion around balancing rate versus balancing sales?  And do you think that you’ve leaned too far toward the rate side? You know this is something that we are always looking at and adjusting.
But I guess I would tell you I don’t feel like we’ve gone too far.
Our inventory as John mentioned our average inventory per store is flat to last year.
It’s actually up a bit in apparel given the softer sales in the first quarter.
So we’re always looking at that.
We look as much as out of stocks as we do in stocks in trying to improve those stores.
So it’s a constant focus for us and we can always improve.
But I feel pretty good about where we are right now in terms of in stocks.
Okay thank you.
That concludes Target’s first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation’s Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday August 21 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our 2013 second quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President of Merchandising; and John Mulligan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I will provide a high level summary of our second quarter results and strategic priorities for the rest of the year and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and upcoming initiatives.
And finally John will provide more detail on our financial performance along with our outlook for the third quarter and full year.
Following John’s remarks we’ll open up the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we are joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP results is included in this morning’s press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
Target’s second quarter financial results reflect strong U.S.
profit performance in spite of soft traffic and sales.
Our second quarter comparable sales increased 1.2% below our expectations going into the quarter but nearly 2 percentage points ahead of our first quarter pace.
As a result we delivered second quarter adjusted EPS of $1.19 at the high end of our expectation going into the quarter.
Our GAAP EPS of $0.95 was in the middle of our expected range reflecting higher than expected dilution of $0.21 from our Canadian segment.
As we monitor the economy and consumer sentiment we continue to see a mix of signals in which emerging optimism is balanced with continuing challenges.
This year’s payroll tax increase continues to affect spending particularly among lower and [moderate] [ph] income households and household formation in younger demographic groups remain stubbornly negative.
Recent job growth numbers have been encouraging but labor force participation and income growth remain weak.
And while emerging strength in the housing and automotive sectors is a long term positive the near term spending on these big ticket items is crowding out other spending particularly in today’s environment in which access to consumer credit remains tight.
As you’ve heard from all operators and other retailers we continue to see the impact of trip consolidation in U.S.
households as our second quarter comp was entirely driven by an increase in basket size partially offset by a small decline in traffic.
Second quarter sales in our digital channels grew in the teens overall with mobile traffic and sales continuing to grow at a triple digit pace.
Second quarter operating margins in the U.S.
were quite strong especially in light of the pace of our sales.
We delivered a healthy gross margin rate as we saw a relatively balanced mix of sales across categories and our merchant teams did a great job managing inventory and price investments.
In addition we continue to benefit from very disciplined management of expenses particularly in our stores.
In fact excluding the impact of the decline in the contribution from our credit card portfolio U.S.
segment operating margins increased from last year’s second quarter.
Altogether we feel very good about our second quarter U.S.
segment performance as we overcame softer than expected sales and the year-over-year impact of credit card profit sharing to deliver a 6.1% increase in adjusted earnings per share.
These results demonstrate the resilience of our team and our operating model in the face of a challenging economic and consumer environment.
In our Canadian segment we have reached the half-way point in our 2013 market launch.
We opened another 44 Canadian Target stores in the second quarter putting our total at 68 today on the way to our goal of operating 124 Canadian stores by year end.
Launching our Canadian segment has required a massive effort from teams throughout the company including building a completely new supply chain infrastructure and integrated technology solution completely reconstructing former Zellers transforming them into brand new Target stores hiring and training more than 15 000 Canadian team members and creating unique merchandize strategies and assortments to fit the preferences of our Canadian guests including a very strong presence in our home and apparel categories.
The team’s execution on these efforts has been excellent as a result our Canadian stores have seen strong initial traffic and the mix of our sales in home and apparel has been even higher than expected.
However now that we have successfully opened 68 stores in Canada we need to drive trips and conversion in frequency categories like healthcare food and other basic commodities.
Sales in these categories have grown much more slowly than we expected causing overall sales and profit momentum to build more slowly as well.
Multiple serve indicate that our prices are very competitive and right where they need to be when compared to competition at local markets.
Yet we know there is a gap in guest awareness of how low our prices really are.
As a result we’re deploying multiple tactics to help our guest better understand the great value and convenience we provide in these categories.
Overtime we expect these efforts will drive greater awareness of the assortment and value we provide on these frequently purchased items leading our Canadian guest to regularly shop Target for a balance of both wants and needs.
Our expectations are informed by our experience our experience in launching the (inaudible) remodel program and city Target format as well as our historical experience entering new markets in the U.S.
In many of these markets we saw similar pattern in with sales momentum with slower than expected at the launch grew rapidly in the first several years after opening resulting in achievement of our 5th year sales goals.
For the stores we have opened the team in Canada is working to adjust inventory and store staffing to match the pace of sales in each individual location and for the segment in total we have updated the expected timing of earnings accretion.
Having said that we remain highly confident in our strategy we’re very pleased with the look and feel of these new stores and we have an outstanding Canadian team.
We have invested in this segment to position it for long term success and we continue to believe we will achieve our longer term financial goals in Canada.
Across the company we are moving quickly to position our business to succeed in a rapidly changing retail environment.
This requires our team to stay laser focused on near term execution while simultaneously allocating resources and effort to initiatives that will drive longer term sales growth and profitability.
Recent examples of this includes the beta launch of Cartwheel our mobile coupon platform on Facebook that has experienced rapid growth since launch in April.
This platform which immigrates our stores and mobile into guest social networks has seen very high levels of guest engagement.
In fact our partners at Facebook have told us that engagement statistics for Cartwheel are among the best they have seen in the beta stage of any app both within and outside the retail space.
We are also dividing meaningful resources to enhance the flexibility of our fulfillment networks which includes our stores regional distribution centers online fulfillment centers and import warehouses.
In addition we are investing in data systems that will provide a single holistic view across vendors’ items or distribution infrastructure and stores that will allow us to more efficiently and seamlessly fulfill guest demand in whatever channel they choose.
And we are pleased with our recent agreement to acquire the DermStore Beauty Group.
This unique opportunity which follows our acquisitions of Chefs.com and Cooking.com earlier in the year provide us insight into superior online experience DermStore provides along with access to brands contents and resources that are valuable to our guests.
As we look to the remainder of the year and beyond we are taking steps to drive guest traffic both today and over time.
We are steadfast in our commitment to provide value to guests who continue to shop cautiously investing in everyday low prices and even lower prices in our weekly circular and flyer combined with compelling discounts available on Cartwheel.
We reinforced this commitment to value with price matching policies for both online and local print ads from competitors and 5% REDcard Rewards and Pharmacy Rewards allows guests to save even more off or already great prices.
The continued rapid adoption of both of these programs demonstrates the value they provide for our guests.
Beyond low prices we work to differentiate our assortment and guest experience by partnering with designers and others to provide unique unexpected value-added products and services.
For example in our stores we are adding service elements to categories including beauty and electronics.
And outside our stores we will continue to explore acquisition opportunities to augment our digital capabilities content and brands.
Additionally we are building the digital acumen of the organization through hiring and collaborations with leading technology partners.
For example our recently opened Technology Innovation Center in San Francisco provides us the opportunity to benefit from technology talent in the area and rapidly explore opportunities that can be brought to Target accelerating the pace of our innovation and adoption of emerging technologies and trends.
And we are building the capability to operate stores in smaller spaces particularly in urban markets.
We are analyzing results in our first 70 Target stores to understand where in the stores we have the ability to reduce space even more allowing us to further shrink the size of this store format.
Ultimately we believe we will succeed over time by providing value to our guests in the world of and where we provide the ability to continually shop in stores and digital channels enjoyable shopping for both wants and needs access to great design and low prices and the ability to save money with an ethical company that supports the communities where we operate.
At Target we have long understood the power of and which is summed up by our brand promise to expect more and pay less.
We believe this promise is more relevant than ever in today’s environment and we are committed across the organization to delivering on it every day in every channel.
Before I turn the call over to Kathy I want to take a moment to thank the Target team for their outstanding effort in this challenging environment.
The team has already accomplished a lot this year successfully launching a record number of stores outside the U.S.
for the first time selling our credit card portfolio to an outstanding partner in TD Bank and preserving profitability in a softer than expected sales environment in the U.S.
Throughout the organization we are focused on becoming more nimble moving quickly to test and learn from new initiatives.
I am proud of this team and confident that our efforts will position Target for long-term success.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on second quarter results outline its initiatives for the third quarter and beyond.
Kathy?  Thanks Gregg.
We are very pleased with the ability of our team to manage inventory and profitability in our U.S.
business during a quarter in which consumer shop consciously and competitors promote it heavily to clear access inventory.
In our second quarter U.S.
results we saw a relatively narrow spread in comparable sales between the strongest and softest performing categories.
Not surprisingly sales in less discretionary areas like food healthcare and household essentials grew somewhat faster than the company average.
However sales in our home category also grew faster than the company average driven by particular strength in our domestics and stationary categories.
Among the other more discretionary categories second quarter comparable sales in both apparel and hardlines declined slightly.
Within apparel our children’s categories had the strongest results while the more discretionary women’s assortments experienced softer results in the space of a very promotional environment.
We continue to deliver excitement through limited time partnerships with influential designers who help us differentiate target an support and expect more pay less brand promise.
In the second quarter we were very pleased with the results of our collaboration with Lauren Bush Lauren and FEED USA featuring products and home sporting goods stationary apparel and accessories.
Beyond the merchandize this unique program reinforced our commitment to communities as Target provided more than 10 million meals for U.S.
families through this collaboration.
We’re also very pleased with the initial results for the beta launch of Cartwheel a differentiated mobile experience that delivers value for our guests.
We launched the Cartwheel app on the iOS and Android platforms in June and it's already a Top 20 lifestyle app in the Apple Store.
Cartwheel is growing rapidly; it currently has more than a million users who have saved more than $2 million so far.
Among active users more than 50% have completed multiple Cartwheel transactions demonstrating the power of the program to drive sustained guest engagement.
As expected guests are searching for deals while they are shopping in stores and we have seen redemption rates in excess of 50% for offers downloaded by guests while they are shopping.
We’re pleased with these initial results and will apply what we have learned to improve both the Cartwheel experience as well as the development of our multi-channel experiences in the future.
Beyond new mobile experiences like Cartwheel our overall mobile sales and traffic continued to grow at a rapid pace to build on this momentum we’re investing to enhance feed search product information and check-out on our mobile site and this fall we will be begin testing other innovations to enhance the in-store mobile experience including way finding and improved search.
And we continue to invest to further integrate the shopping experience across channels based on successful results from our team member test of buy online and pickup and in-store we’re moving quickly to begin offering this option for guests in this third quarter.
We will begin in the Minneapolis market before expanding the role to other markets we expect to complete the role to all stores by the holiday season.
Simultaneously we’re planning team member tests of other flexible with capabilities which will begin later this year including the ability to deliver online orders from stores as early as the same day and the ability to pay in one store and pick-up another.
Based on the results of the team member test we will look to move to guest facing tests next year.
And beyond investments to build on our own digital offering we continue to monitor the landscape to identify opportunities to augment our capabilities through acquisitions.
The recent decision to acquire DermStore reflects a strategic opportunity for Target to learn from their online expertise customer service content development and product curation which combines to create an exceptional online beauty experience.
In addition DermStore’s broad assortment of prestige and dermatology brands will complete Target’s product offerings.
We continue to approach the economic and competitive environment with longer term optimism but near term caution with over consumer confidence statistics have improved this year it's notable that optimism among lower income households is lagging behind and as Greg mentioned this year’s payroll tax increase and consumer spending on autos and housing are crowding out spending on other goods and services for example in survey’s regarding expected spending on back to school and back to college items consumers indicate they intend to spend less than a year ago by focusing on sales discounts and reusing items they already own.
As a result in preparing for the third quarter and beyond we are building flexibility into our inventory plans and creating merchandise and marketing programs focused on driving traffic and sales with compelling offers innovative partnerships and key seasonal programs.
Target is known for delivering key seasons for our guests and only the fourth quarter holiday season is bigger than back-to-school and back-to-college.
This year we have created a multi-layer strategy to deliver a great guest experience and outstanding value.
For back-to-school we are offering parents a convenient one-stop-shop for all the must-have items on their shopping list at a price at a range of price points to accommodate a variety of household budgets including hundreds of unique items in fashion school supplies and accessories for less than $20.
In fact we have nearly 400 items for $1 or less clearly demonstrating our commitment to deliver value.
Our back-to-school direct mail catalog includes more than $25 worth of coupons and we have increased the number of online coupons this year as well.
And of course parents who use their Target REDcard will receive 5% off their entire purchase and free shipping on every order from Target.com.
To support our back-to-school merchandising that has broadcast themes in various lengths and languages which focused on telling stories around iconic school moments that make kids feel like real life heroes.
In addition to the unique Kids Got Style Instagram program Target’s celebrated kids as the most original style leaders.
Earlier this month parents could Instagram a picture of their children showing off their individual style.
Target stylists use select photos as inspiration to create Kids Got Style mood boards of colors fashion items and supplies inspired by each child’s unique style which were posted to Instagram Facebook and Twitter.
Parents were tagged so they could view and share the photos to their social networks as inspiration for the new school year.
Because we know that quality education is the number one social priority for our guests it’s also the number one focus of our giving programs.
So following last year’s success we are excited about the return of our Give With Target program through which Target will donate $5 million to schools across the country.
Last year our guests impacted more than 30 000 schools through donations from this program which were used to purchase classroom resources like electronics office supplies and storage and organization products.
New this year Target is inviting guests to allocate the full donation double the amount designated by guests last year to schools of their choice.
For back-to-college we have created innovative resources and new live experiences both online and in person to provide the inspiration and tools to make shopping fun and easy.
Last month Target introduced a first of its kind online live experience featuring popular YouTube personalities and live-sized virtual dorms.
From July 15th through the 18th visitors were invited to shop Target products from the dorm rooms enter to win college gear and to interact with the roommates.
Also online we have created uStyler a style focused design resource that puts students in the driver seat as they put together their unique dorm room look looks can be named saved and shared on their favorite social media sites where their friends are able to shop them.
And we have created the checklist a customizable list of key products available in store and at Target.com to help students shop for this for small-space living.
On campus Target is hosting 95 shopping events for incoming freshman around the country as part of welcome week festivities.
These events include after our shopping events which provides free bus transportation to and from our store where students will be able to shop for everything they need and want.
Halloween is also a key season for Target and the holiday falls in our third quarter this year.
We plan to deliver this season with a multi-channel approach focused on driving traffic and growing our market share.
We will offer a comprehensive assortment of costumes and accessories for the whole family including parents kids and pets.
We will offer a dominant presentation in our stores and extend the assortment on Target.com.
In home Target’s product design and development team has created an innovative collection of Halloween décor ranging from classic too scary to help mom decorate her home inside and out for the big night.
As Gregg mentioned we are increasingly focused on differentiating our store experience through enhanced service the baby category is already one of our signature strengths but we believe we have an opportunity to further deepen relationships with guests who are entering this life stage.
Expected parents establish new shopping habits and it's a time when they are looking for easy shopping solutions to save time.
As a result we’re continually exploring new ways to elevate the shopping experience for expected parents for example in 10 Chicago stores we are testing an interactive shopping experience which features accessible product displays including featured fixtures with mannequins to showcase outfits and allow guest to touch and try our products.
There is also a collaboration center in the area where guests can sit comfortable access the register or get personalized assistance from a team member.
Digital tools on hand such as iPads also provide guests easy online access to product information.
Another part of the store where we see an opportunity for enhanced service is our beauty area based on results from our Chicago market test of the Beauty Concierge program we rolled out the concept to an additional stores in the second quarter including stores in LA Washington DC Baltimore and Minneapolis markets.
These beauty consultants are brand agnostic and provide guests with detailed unbiased information on all beauty and personal care categories in the store including product attributes and ingredient benefits servicing as a knowledgeable source and a friendly face in what can often be an intimidating category.
We believe this program serves to differentiate Target in the beauty space while still meeting guest needs for value and convenience.
And of course in the third quarter we will continue to introduce unique merchandise throughout our assortments to deliver newness and excitement for our guests.
For example this fall we’re excited to be partnering with Philip Lim Philip is a designer we have been watching for years his aesthetic (inaudible) yet under stated and it's focused on democratizing beautiful fashion makes him a perfect fit for our brand.
Beginning September 15th Target will offer a limited edition collection of apparel and accessories including an assortment of bag shoes and scarves for men and women at most target stores and target.com.
Prices will range from $20 to $300 with most items under $50.
The entire Philip Lim for Target collection will be presented in the women’s apparel department when it debuts in our stores allowing guest to find the entire collection in one easy to shop area of the store.
After the first week we plan to move items to their respective departments within the store.
In late September we will launch a new line of men’s pants from Haggar called Haggar H26.
Haggar is a premium brand in men’s pants and we’re excited to offer a no iron premium khaki in a classic fit performance slacks in a classic fit and original chino in a straight fit.
And in beauty earlier this month we expanded our hair care assortment with the exclusive launch of Toni &amp; Guy Hair Meet Wardrobe a premium hair care line introduced in the UK in 2011.
Available for the first time in the U.S.
at Target stores and on target.com Hair Meet Wardrobe includes a full range of shampoos conditioners hair accessories and styling tools and range in price from $5 to $40.
And finally we continue to feature exclusive partnerships with influential artists.
Reigning Academy of Country Music Entertainer of the year Luke Bryan teamed up with Target for his latest release Crash My Party which [set] [ph] last week.
The Target exclusive deluxe edition of the album contains four bonus tracks and following last spring’s success we’re thrilled that once again we’re partnering with Justin Timberlake to release a special edition of the continuation of his third studio album the 20/20 Experience 2 of 2 featuring two exclusive bonus tracks.
Guests can preorder the album now on target.com or purchase online or in-stores beginning September 30th.
While we continue to experience the impact of cautious consumer spending and trip consolidation we continue to innovate across all our channels to provide our guest unbeatable value and unique experiences.
We’re confident we have the right plans in place for the third quarter and we’re moving quickly to ensure we stay relevant in an increasingly digital marketplace.
Now John will share his insights on our second quarter financial performance and outlook for the third quarter and the full year.
John?  Thanks Kathy.
We are very pleased with our second quarter U.S.
segment financial performance as the team generated outstanding profitability despite softer than expected traffic and sales.
Second quarter U.S.
segment comparable sales increased 1.2%.
Sales strengthened somewhat as the quarter progressed and were further aided by this year’s calendar shift which moved some early back-to-school sales into July.
Like many other retailers we continue to see the impact of trip consolidation among U.S.
consumers as average transaction size drove more than 100% of our comparable sales growth reflecting increases in both item per basket and average retail per unit.
Year-over-year penetration of sales on our proprietary debit and credit cards grew nearly 600 basis points in the second quarter and for the first time in our history debit penetration moved beyond credit.
The debit card has proven to be the engine that has propelled REDcard Rewards beyond our initial stretch goals.
It is the right product for a large set of guests who simply don’t want another credit card in their wallet.
We continue to measure the change in household spending when guests begin using one of our debit or credit cards.
And we continue to see on average a 50% increase in household spending when guests apply for and activate one of our cards.
Second quarter gross margin rate in the U.S.
was 31.4% up slightly from last year.
As I outlined last quarter this year we have made changes to our vendor agreements regarding payments received in support of our marketing programs which creates equivalent year-over-year increases in our U.S.
segment gross margin and SG&amp;A expense rates.
These changes raised our second quarter gross margin rate by about 20 basis points.
Excluding the benefit from vendor payments gross margin would have declined slightly as our growth driving REDcard Rewards and PFresh remodel programs created moderate pressure which was partially offset by rate improvements within merchandise categories.
The merchant teams also did a great job managing receipts in the face of softer than expected sales.
At the end of the quarter average inventory per store in the U.S.
was up only 1.8% from a year ago.
As expected on the SG&amp;A expense line we continue to see the impact of a smaller contribution from the credit card portfolio which we sold to TD Bank in March.
And while we have tried to do a thorough job last quarter explaining the impact of the sale and the associated change in our segment reporting we have received feedback from some of you that we could have done a better job.
You know who you are.
So to provide greater clarity this quarter let’s go back a year and revisit our second quarter 2012 U.S.
credit card segment results in which we earned EBIT of $143 million.
This segment EBIT reflected the impact of $74 million in profit sharing with the U.S.
retail segment which was described as loyalty program charges in our financial statements.
So in total the corporation earned EBIT from the credit card portfolio of $217 million $143 million in the U.S.
credit card segment and $74 million in the U.S.
retail segment.
Importantly all of this $217 million is reflected in the revised 2012 results for our new U.S.
segment.
Moving now to the second quarter 2013 we received profit sharing of $183 million from TD which was partially offset by approximately $65 million of our expense to service accounts on their behalf meaning second quarter contribution from the credit card portfolio was about $118 million down about $100 million from a year ago.
Two other things are important to remember.
First not all of the year-over-year decline in credit contribution was driven by the sales to TD as the portfolio is smaller than a year ago and we are annualizing a $30 million reserve release in second quarter 2012.
Second outside the U.S.
segment we continue to offset some of the impacts of profit sharing as we have deployed proceeds from the sale to reduce our net debt position and repurchase shares.
With that as context we can turn to our second quarter U.S.
segment SG&amp;A expense rate of 20.6% which was up from 20.2% in last year’s revised U.S.
segment.
More than 100% of this increase or about six tenths of a percentage point was driven by the decline and the contribution from the credit card portfolio.
In addition we continue to experience expense pressure from this year’s incremental investments in technology and distribution in support of our multi-channel efforts.
And finally the change in vendor payments increased our SG&amp;A expense rate by about 20 basis points.
Offsetting these multiple pressures we benefited from favorable leverage of compensation expenses including incentive compensation and for payroll.
And we continue to benefit from our companywide expense optimization efforts which are identifying opportunities to increase productivity throughout the organization.
All together our second quarter U.S.
segment EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were down only slightly from last year’s revised U.S.
results.
However without the headwind from the credit card portfolio those rates would have increased slightly.
These results are outstanding and notably better than we could have expected in our quarter in which sales fell well short of our expected range.
In our Canadian segment sales accelerated from the first quarter as we continue to open stores at a robust pace.
However we have seen slower than expected ramp up in sales following the grand opening rush particularly in our frequency categories.
Second quarter red carpet penetration in Canada was 2.3% and consistent with our U.S.
segment debit penetration was slightly ahead of credit.
As we have seen in the U.S.
since the launch of the program we expect red carpet penetration to continue to grow in Canada driving incremental sales across all categories.
The Canadian segment earned second quarter gross margin of $87 million or 31.6% reflecting a very favorable mix of sales in the home apparel categories offset by the impact of some inventory clearance.
Second quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $ 207 million reflecting both ongoing operating expenses combined with meaningful startup expenses as we prepare to open new stores.
All together second quarter dilution attributable to the Canadian segment including depreciation amortization and interest expense recorded outside the segment was $0.21 compared with our estimate of $0.16 going in the quarter.
Even in the year where we’re making meaningful investments in distribution technology and our Canadian market launch we have been able to return a large amount of cash to our shareholders to dividends and share repurchase.
In the second quarter we paid dividends of $231 million and repurchased more than $900 million worth of our shares.
Year-to-date we have paid dividends of nearly $0.5 billion and repurchased shares worth nearly $1.5 billion.
And we were pleased to announce in June that our Board of Directors had approved a 19% increase to our quarterly dividend from $0.36 to $0.43 per share as a result 2013 will mark the 42th consecutive year in which this company has increased it's annual dividend.
Now let’s turn to our expectations for the third quarter and the full year.
In the U.S.
segment we’re expecting third quarter comparable sales in the range of 1% to 2% for this outlook it's somewhat ahead of our second quarter pace it is supported by our experience so far in August and it reflects the benefit of this year’s calendar shift which moves the Halloween holiday into October from last year’s fiscal November.
We expect a small decline in the gross margin rate compared with last year as that can be impact of our growth initiatives partially offset by the benefit of the vendor payment shift.
We expect our third quarter SG&amp;A expense rate will be approximately 21.4% reflecting about 60 basis points of pressure from a lower credit portfolio contribution and continued pressure from our multi-channel investments and the shift in vendor payments.
Partially offset by ongoing benefit of our expense optimization efforts.
All together these expectations deliver a third quarter EBITDA margin rate about a 4 percentage point below last year’s third quarter revised U.S.
segment EBITDA margin rate.
In Canada the team continues to refine operations in the stores already opened ensuring that inventory and expenses match the current pace of sales in each individual store.
It's important to note that we’re still very early into our market launch and as Greg mentioned we’re deploying multiple tactics to drive sales in our frequency categories overtime.
However given that we have initially positioned our expense structure fulfillment network and inventory to support potential upside to our initial sales forecast we’re incurring markdowns and higher than normal operating expense rates as we adjust to the current pace of sales.
This has raised our dilution expectations for this segment through the end of the year.
Specifically the third quarter we expect the Canadian segment will drive $0.22 of dilution to our consolidated earnings per share.
In total we expect third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.80 to $0.90 and GAAP EPS of $0.55 to $0.65 reflecting Canada dilution along with $0.03 of expense from the unwind of the beneficial interest asset resulting from our credit card portfolio.
For the full year we have become incrementally more cautious in our U.S.
sales outlook given our recent results and those of our competitors.
We now expect the full year comparable sales increase of about 1% down from our prior outlook for an increase of 2% to 2.5%.
We believe planning for this pace is appropriate and will help to mitigate downside risk of taking a more aggressive inventory position.
As always Kathy’s team remains prepared to chase business if the U.S.
environment strengthens unexpectedly.
Even with our more tempered sales expectation we believe full year adjusted EPS will remain in the $4.70 to $4.90 range we provided previously although our expectation has moved to the low end of that range.
We expect full year GAAP EPS to be approximately $0.95 lower than adjusted EPS reflecting $0.82 of dilution from the Canadian segment combined with a net $0.13 of dilution from the credit card portfolio sale and associated debt repurchase.
Down this year we expect year-over-year EPS performance in the Canadian segment to improve meaningfully in 2014.
While Canadian segment sales are starting from a different base than we expected we have ample experience with U.S.
market launches to give us confidence that we can drive stronger sales increases in the next several years and ultimately reach our longer term sales and profit goals.
As we said many times our experience in opening Target stores for more than 50 years has shown that we are much more accurate when explaining fifth year sales than first year sales.
We are still very confident in our Canadian strategy stores and team and continue to believe the segment will generate $0.80 or more of EPS in 2017.
And finally beginning next year we expect to see a meaningful increase in cash available for dividends in share repurchase.
Our U.S.
operations continue to generate very strong cash flow.
In addition we expect capital expenditures in Canada to fall more than $1 billion in 2014 while U.S.
capital expenditures are expected to stay essentially flat.
The resulting increase in free cash flow will allow us to continue growing the dividend at our current 20% annual rate and meaningfully grow share repurchase from the current pace while maintaining our goal to preserve our current strong investment grade credit ratings.
That concludes today’s prepared remarks.
Now Gregg Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
I guess just first question on the comp John I think you mentioned that it did get steadily better throughout the quarter any additional color you could give us there? And then I guess on were there any regional differences that you could potentially isolate in terms of where some of the transaction weakness was in the quarter?  I think on the sequentially yes I mean it improved month-to-month within the quarter.
None of the quarters were negative which compared to first quarter was significant progress.
July was notably the strongest but a portion that certainly was attributable to that back-to-school moving in from August last year.
So we did see a strengthening but I wouldn’t want to overplay that.
Certainly a portion of it is attributable to the calendar.
On geography wise we have not seen anything meaningfully different in aggregate across the quarter in any one week or day there is differences depending on when back-to-school starts on various portions of the country but nothing meaningful across the country.
Okay got it.
And then I guess you talked about some lower advertised prices in circular is this really just in Canada or is it also in the U.S.? And is that some of the gross margin pressure that you are thinking about in the second half as you have done a very nice job in terms of rate improvements in between categories over the last call it four five quarters here?  Well I would say this is Gregg in the U.S.
we continue to offer [hot] [ph] pricing.
There isn’t going to be a meaningful change in our strategy because day-in and day-out we have unbeatable prices when you take a look at our - the fact that our prices are competitive the price match policy both online and in-store and our REDcard’s performance day-in and day-out we have a very strong value proposition and our circular pricing is even more aggressive than that and we take market leading positions.
In Canada we know that we have an opportunity to break those shopping habits and we have got to focus on driving need-based trips.
So there in particular we will sharpen up our pricing and make sure that we are taking a more of a market leader position.
Our REDcard penetration is still very very small there and we expect that to grow over time but it's more in Canada that we’re going to make sure that our prices get more noticed than they have been upto this point.
Part of that was a conscious plan on our part to make sure that we really won in home and apparel and we feel real good about where we’re in those two businesses today so we’re proud of that fact.
Now we have to just turn on the gas a little bit on the other side of the equation to make sure that we’re getting the Canadian guest to understand what great values we offer on frequency categories and break some of those well-established habits.
Okay and then just real quick on the dilution in Canada obviously up quite a bit here in 2013 from the initial expectation any way or ability to paint us a picture? I know you still remain constant in that five year outlook on the progression for that $0.80 in 2017.
Thank you.
I’m not entirely clear where you’re going is that why are we confident about the $0.80 or what we will see happen here as we go forward Sean?  Yes so I guess the question is is there an ability to say that the Canadian business will be - you believe the Canadian business may be accretive in 2014.
And so on 2014 I think very early here and we have given you our best view I think when you step back we have been operating you know 60 some stores for on average about 2.5 months and so we’re giving you our best information here for 2013 and clearly sales are a little bit short of where we so we need to work through some of the inventory and optimizing the business and optimizing our expense structure.
I think as we look forward getting another 56 stores open getting through a holiday will certainly provide a lot more information about where we expect to be but in 2014 I think we expect to see meaningful improvement in the profitability of Canada we will cycle past all of the startup expenses we will have our inventories more in line with sales patterns that we now have some information on.
Our expense structure will be optimized to the sales level and we will start to grow sales so I think we will see meaningful improvement in 2014 but I would say probably from this perspective today unlikely that we will see profitability on the full year and we will be back to provide a little more information on what that looks like and the cadence throughout the quarters again as we get a little bit more information this year get the stores open get in new markets and get to a holiday season most importantly.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
I want to follow up on Canada and then touch on the U.S.
just to make sure I got that right or maybe ask it in a different way John.
If you look at the incremental Canadian dilution this year how much of it is related to those items of clearance how much of it would be related to if you will startup cost or advertise and how much of it do you think is just a different margin structure in the business to drive that frequency in trips?  Yeah I think parsing that all out is difficult I would say the second one incremental marketing and advertising is not material to the total move from where we were to where we’re today.
I think the biggest driver of the change in profitability are dilution this year comes from we had a set of sales expectations as we entered in the market and we also have given all the excitement that we saw building over two years we protected on the upside from an expense standpoint and from an inventory standpoint and the sales have been somewhat disappointing and so we need to work through those inventories there are some clearance activity there was some excess inventory this quarter as well that we worked through and we need to right size the entire expense structure for the sales numbers that we’re currently operating and so I think that’s the vast majority of it.
I don’t think we see I know we don’t see going forward and a change in the overall our view of what the margin rates were going to be; EBITDA or EBIT rates were going to be in Canada over the long term.
We feel very good about gross margin and frankly we expect gross margin will deteriorate a little bit as we begin to drive these frequency categories.
You don’t see that in this quarter’s results because there was a fair bit of clearance and excess inventory that we moved through but we expect margin rates will come down as we grow sales in those frequency categories but net-net that will be good for the business and start to apply leverage against the fixed expenses that we have built for the business.
And then second turning to the U.S.
Kathryn was helpful to go through all the initiatives you have and it seems like the issue that is bigger than anything is traffic staying negative versus what you guys would have probably hoped or expected a year or two ago.
If we think about the traffic side of it more specifically what in the back half do you think is going to help stabilize and improve that traffic trend or is it just a way it is now that this trip consolidation and that’s the way the consumer is.
And if we are going to get comp it needs to be with more items in top line?  You are right Gregg.
Traffic was our issue.
And I do think that somewhat that is the way it is right now.
We are seeing a lot of trip consolidation across all guests.
I think the part that I am pleased about is that when you look at our basket we are seeing that they are buying more units from Target as well as increase selling price and they are trading up into higher price point products.
So that’s great.
I think as we move forward the thing that we are focused on in driving traffic is really making sure that as they are consolidating and they are doing more in one store that we are offering that compelling value and Gregg talked a lot about all of those components but that we make sure that that continues to be rock solid as well as the innovative products.
And I mentioned a lot of those that we have coming like Phillip and Haggar and in our seasonal categories we have got a lot of new stuff coming.
So that’s key.
And then I guess the third thing that I would add is just making sure that our in-store experience remains outstanding because we want them to be pleased when they come and continue to consolidate their trip and to do more at Target.
So we have great service every day but in addition to that some of the new things that we are doing with flexible fulfillment like buy online pickup in store I think will be fantastic in the back half.
And then we are also looking at really upping the in-store experience in key categories like beauty and the test that I described in baby.
So it’s a combination of those three things.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just a quick follow-up on Canada and then a couple on U.S.
business as well could you just talk to the inventory overhang in Canada the clearance that you spoke to is that primarily also on frequency items or is that more a discretionary product?  The inventory overhang is the function of the shortfall primarily in some of the seasonal categories.
So think of two - even though apparel and home was strong the variability by store and the fact that some of our seasonal categories like lawn and patio didn’t perform at the level that we were expecting.
So it was not in the basic categories or the non-discretionary it’s primarily in a subset of the discretionary categories but it’s one of those things where it’s more obvious because of such a large number of stores but it’s the same kind of fine-tuning that we go through every time we open a new store here in the United States and have experienced for years and years.
There is always a tremendous amount of fine-tuning and getting the right match of sales volatility variability assortment and aligning that with inventory.
What we are seeing in Canada is just there is such a big critical mass that it stands out and it’s far more obvious but it’s not different than what we have experienced here.
Okay great.
And then in terms of the average transaction size could you just elaborate on which categories are benefiting from the larger basket and the trade up that you alluded to?  Yes I think that we are seeing larger basket in many different areas they are shopping as I said doing more in one store shopping around the store.
In terms of the selling price we are seeing strength in trading up to higher price points in back-to-school.
We are seeing strength for example in home with threshold where they are buying that better product versus opening price point products.
And then we are also seeing some softer sales in our one spot at the front of the store which is very seasonal and impulsive product.
So that combination I think is driving that selling price.
Okay great.
And then just lastly if we look at some of the omni-channel and multi-channel initiatives that are launching in the back half is there any way to quantify the potential impact or potentially in your survey work you could talk to how much demand there is for these products specifically on click and collect or buy online pickup and store I know that’s half of the volume in some cases for some of your competitors online businesses.
Could you just talk to how big you think that could be for you in the back half? Thank you.
We don’t have a number that we can share on that we have as you know we have been testing with team members and I think the key for us is just the convenience for guests to be able to buy it online but then they want to pick it up in-store sometimes they don’t want it delivered and sitting on their door step but often times they want to be able to get other things in the store either that go along with that core item or just the rest of their list.
So we think it will be very interesting to our guest it certainly has been with our team members but we haven’t quantified the sales number yet.
Yeah I would just say you know this is we’re in a learning environment right now we will be able to give you a lot more specifics that to just to the holiday season and first try and quantify at this stage would be it would be a (inaudible) so we really don’t want to speculate how our guests are going to use that and but we will be back at the end of the holiday and we will give you a lot more color around the adoption the acceptance rates by our guest.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Speaking about the spending in those first half of the year versus the back half of the year on marketing and why is it a competitive environment can you just help us think about how that spending might take place in the back half versus the first half of the year?  There is not really a meaningful difference in terms of rate of spend first half second half.
We didn’t overspend or underspend the first half to shift dollars to the second half.
We have always felt that the allocation of resources by quarter by half has been pretty appropriate and our spend is going to be similar in those kinds of percentages what we have seen is we have ramped up our spend in the digital channel it's a less expensive channel that gives us a different guest and broader reach and we have become far more efficient in the use of our marketing dollar so I think we’re getting the same or more bang for our buck for essentially the same investments that we have made in the past.
Okay and then with regard to Canada can you elaborate a little bit on the announcement this week with regards to the Metro partnership in Canada?  Yeah we’re excited to have Metro as partner to run our pharmacies in the Quebecian province in the Eastern part of the Canada we think they are a great partner and they run a terrific business and we’re thrilled to have them as our partner.
Okay and then lastly it seems like you have unique opportunity with the red carpet to Europe communications between Canada and U.S.
is almost 20% of our fashion base can you talk about through email and text what you’re doing in terms of virtualization?  We’re doing a lot with both email and text but I would tell you Deb we’re on the beginning of that journey we think there is a lot more that we can do but we’re doing you know things with personalization in terms of seasonal and timing but also product categories that resonate with our guests and we’re seeing great results.
We’ve upped particularly email a lot this year and it's really paying off and so you know we’re on a journey and we think that there is a lot of headroom there and we will go after that in a big way.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason DeRise with UBS.
I wanted to ask about Canada’s gross margin again I know there has been a few questions already but if you did better on the more of those discretionary items and I guess there were some shortfalls store by store in terms of certain seasonal items coming through I mean is this how is this I guess effecting maybe some of your plans are you adding more planograms is that going to add some of the SG&amp;A cost to service all these stores if it's just different demand for different products and just reflecting how that growth in Canada actually it's just weather effects and what have you learned from that process?  I don’t think that we will be adding a lot of planograms version but I think we’re still tweaking on those planograms but we understand that and we have got many different versions throughout Canada for all of their differences across geography and their guests but I think what Gregg was talking about was number one getting the buy right buy store in all of those categories and then some of the seasonal categories were softer so making sure that we get that buy rate going forward that has less to do with the planogram itself.
And then in addition to that as we are driving more trips with our frequency category that’s beside that’s been weaker we think that traffic will also help sales throughout the store as the guests clearly like their differentiated merchandise on the apparel and home side.
So it’s kind of a combination but it’s more about the buy than it is about planogram.
The other thing I would add Jason is if you step back to where we were three months ago the gross margin rate was little a bit above 38%.
And the two things we said at that time I think are still appropriate.
One it’s going to noisy here early by quarter because it’s just naturally that way as we are opening up stores but two don’t expect us to operate at that higher level.
While the mix was very favorable we hadn’t gone through any seasonal clearance and so seasonal clearance is going to naturally bring that rate down.
This quarter a little bit more than we would have expected but there again I said we are working through some excess inventory given our sale levels.
So we expect through time that the gross margin rate will normalize at a reasonable level that ultimately will allow us to deliver EBITDA margin rates let’s say 12% in Canada like we have talked about all along.
Okay.
And then I guess I wanted to ask on the U.S.
side about the efforts to increase service of omni-channel flexible fulfillment and all those things obviously that cost a lot to implement than the way I said and you can correct me if I am wrong very centralized already.
So should we think about this is just necessary to keep sales growing and maybe it comes in at a lower margin or are there areas that you can offset that impact?  I would think at it as this way.
In our business at any given point in time there are investments that we have to make to continue to get better at what we do whether it’s a service or supply chain or technology investments or investments in the guest experience.
And so this is – I mean we are calling attention to this but these are investments that we are going to make in the business because we want to provide a great experience which means our expense optimization efforts as they have in the past have to more than offset these kinds of investments.
So we look at it all-in holistically and we are saying hey we got to get leaner and leaner in certain parts of the organization and become more efficient.
And we demonstrated that last quarter we were very very rock solid in our expense in our productivity and that affords us the ability to – and the capacity to get more aggressive and do some of these kinds of things and invest in transforming the business to the future.
And I guess could you may be elaborate on that? I know that you talked a bit about that there is the compensation accrual in that that helps then you also mentioned that you were better on payrolls.
I mean is that something where you think there is more room to go in terms of the in-store labor or is that something where you really wouldn’t want to push too hard on because of the potential implications on revenue and if that’s the case where else could the savings be if it’s not the store?  Jason we said at the beginning of the year of the investments in multi-channel and everything we were doing would be $0.20 to $0.25 of incremental dilution or incremental expense in our business.
And we said at that time that through our expense optimization efforts we expected to offset virtually all of that in the year.
We do that in a variety of ways.
The stores have continuously over a long period of years look for ways to increase productivity faster than wage rate and faster than sales to lowering our expense rate.
And we think there is opportunities to continue to apply technology to improve productivity in our stores.
So what Gregg was talking about our expense optimization efforts are across the entire organization headquarters distribution supply chain everywhere we operate we are looking for ways to take expense out so that we can afford to invest in the business.
Okay thank you.
Great.
Well that concludes Target’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 26 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gregg Steinhafel Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our 2013 fourth quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Kathy Tesija Executive Vice President of Merchandising; and John Mulligan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning I will provide a high level summary of our fourth quarter results and strategic priorities for the year ahead and Kathy will discuss category results guest insights and the holiday season.
And finally John will provide more detail on our financial performance along with our financial outlook for 2014.
Following John’s remarks we’ll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we are joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John Hulbert and John Mulligan will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in the 8-K we filed this morning.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP results is included in this morning’s press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
Target’s fourth quarter financial results reflect better than expected U.S segments performance in the first three weeks of the holiday season followed by meaningfully softer results following our December 19th announcement that criminals had gained access to guest payment card data in our U.S stores.
In total fourth quarter comparable sales decreased 2.5% consistent with our updated guidance in January.
Throughout the quarter our team managed the business extremely well adjusting both inventory and expenses to match the rapidly changing pace of sales.
As a result our US operations generated fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.30 at the high-end of the updated guidance we provided in January.
In Canada we worked diligently to leverage holiday traffic in an effort to clear excess inventory.
Markdowns resulting from this effort drove a very low gross margin rate but allowed us to reduce average inventory per store in Canada by approximately 30% between the beginning and end of the fourth quarter.
Canadian segment EPS dilution was $0.40 in the quarter $0.05 better than the updated guidance we provided in January.
We are pleased that our early cycle Canadian stores have seen the most improvement giving us confidence that we will continue to see continued improvement across all our Canadian stores in 2014.
Fourth quarter GAAP EPS of $0.81 reflects U.S and Canadian segment performance along with costs related to our recent restructuring in data breach along with small accounting and tax matters.
As we work to address the impact of the mid-December data breach we have put the welfare of our guests at the center of every decision we’ve made.
We have communicated in early and often providing the best information we had about new facts in ongoing -- on the ongoing investigation.
We consistently assured our guests that they would have zero liability for any unauthorized charges on their card accounts resulting from the breach.
We increased fraud detection for REDcard holders and extended free credit monitoring and identity theft protection for any guests who has ever shopped one of our U.S stores.
We are truly sorry for the impact this breach has had on our guests team members and other stakeholders and I want to reiterate that we are committed for making things right.
We know these initial steps are part of a longer process.
We continue to listen to our guests and we know that this incident and recent security breaches at other companies have shaken their confidence in both Target and the U.S payment system more broadly.
To rebuild guest confidence we’re committed to an end-to-end review in cooperation with third-party experts to understand how the breach occurred the identification and acceleration of solutions to provide enhanced protection in the future and engagement with third-party experts to protect the industry and consumers from future threats.
Accordingly we're taking the following steps.
We are conducting an end-to-end forensic investigation of our processes systems and personnel to make informed decisions on potential security enhancements.
We are accelerating the adoption of advanced chip enabled technology investing more than $100 million to equip our stores and to issue Target branded smart chip credit and debit cards.
We have long supported this more secured technology; a broad adoption in the U.S market has been elusive.
We believe that recent events will help the industry to reach a tipping point to an accelerated option in the U.S and we are investing to ensure that Target is a clear leader in driving this change.
We are working collaboratively with a broad set of stakeholders in the payment card space including banks retailers trade associations payment processors and networks to share in advance best practices and foster future innovation.
We helped launch and will be an active leader in retail industry cyber security and data privacy initiative.
In addition we are investing $5 million in a new coalition with the Better Business Bureau and National Cyber Security Alliance and the National Cyber Forensics and Training Alliance to advance public education around cyber security and the dangers of consumer scams.
While we can't yet assess the full impact of this crime against Target and our guests we’re pleased that sales have started to recover from the trends we observed following breach related announcements in December and January.
Importantly because we’re in a strong financial position we expect to absorb any near-term financial impacts while continuing to invest in projects that are key to our long-term success.
Our Company has a long history of innovation disciplined management and a strong long-term financial performance and we are committed to upholding the principles which has -- have sustained this Company success for many decades.
And while 2013 was a disappointing year financially we have entered the New Year with the right plans in place to grow profitably and generate meaningfully improved financial performance in 2014 and beyond.
In the U.S.
we have demonstrated our ability to manage the business with discipline and generate strong financial performance even in a challenging environment.
In fact Kathy will outline in more detail we were very pleased with our holiday season results prior to the announcement of the data breach.
In preparation for fourth quarter we may change this to our holiday promotion and marketing and we were pleased that our in stocks were running at all-time highs.
As a result U.S segment fourth quarter sales were running ahead of plan prior to December 19th.
Looking ahead we will apply the insights we gained in the holiday season to connect with our guests at delivering merchandize and promotions thoughtfully designed to appeal to them based on what's on their mind at each point in the year moving Target beyond compelling to becoming irresistible for our guests.
We made enormous progress in our multichannel efforts throughout 2013 as we meaningfully increased conversion both on our website and on our mobile apps.
We acquired Chef's Catalog Cooking.com and Dermstore extending our online assortment by providing our guests access to additional high-end brands in key home and beauty categories.
We launched Cartwheel our unique mobile savings tool which has far exceeded expectations in both adoption and engagement and we accelerated our investments in flexible fulfillment.
As a result throughout the year growth in our digital traffic and sales outpaced industry averages.
We launched in-store pick up chain-wide at the beginning of November and with very little marketing this new offering became a meaningful driver of digital traffic and sales.
Our store teams did an outstanding job delivering great service when guests arrived to pick up these orders and this is particularly impressive since we launched the service during the busiest time of the year.
We will continue to invest in systems data and processes to enhance our flexible fulfillment capabilities in 2014 and beyond.
In our stores we are committed to enhancing the guest experience by adding dedicated service to key categories like beauty baby and electronics and by providing training and technology that allows our stores team to go beyond providing basic service to solving problems for our guests.
And we're continuing to pilot innovations to our store formats.
Based on the initial rollout of the CityTarget format and the high single digit comparable sales we're seeing in our second year CityTarget stores we're analyzing opportunities to redeem the size and enhance the flexibility of this format opening up a wider universe of potential sites in dense urban areas.
While on the work on CityTarget continues we've also developed a separate smaller format called Target Express at about 15% of the size of one of our general merchandize stores we believe this design provides us with a fantastic opportunity to expand into new trade areas providing a convenient solution to guests who can easily visit one of our other formats.
While we expect to offer a carefully curated assortment in frequency categories like food health care beauty and other household essentials Target Express will also offer discretionary categories including home electronics and seasonal.
Throughout the store we will feature our own brands which offer guests an unbeatable combination of quality and price.
We plan to open our first pilot location of this format here in our home market in July so we can carefully study both operational and financial results before we determine our plans to expand this format to other markets.
Throughout the organization we continue to find new opportunities to optimize expenses freeing up resources we can apply to new initiatives.
In 2013 our teams saved approximately $200 million by reprioritizing their activities and finding more efficient ways to get things done.
Our expense optimization efforts are not a short-term project but a complete overall of the way we work and the team continues to find new opportunities.
As a result we expect the benefit of our expense optimization efforts to reach $1 billion in annualized savings by 2015.
I'm proud that our entire team has embraced this effort to transform how we work.
In Canada the team has moved from a year focused on opening a record number of stores to optimizing the business in run state.
As we enter 2014 with a much cleaner inventory position the team's number one operational focus is on in-stocks ensuring we have the right quantity of each item in the right place at the right time.
In addition we continue to invest in technology and training to enhance both the tools our team uses and their ability to deploy them most effectively.
We're also continuing to implement innovative marketing and merchandizing programs in Canada to raise awareness for our frequency categories like grocery household essentials beauty and healthcare.
Throughout 2014 we will focus on conveying the depth and breadth of our assortment in those categories and the unbeatable value we provide to our everyday pricing 5% of the awards price match and our flier.
With enhanced guest awareness of our unbeatable prices combined with the benefit of improved operations we expect guest shopping frequency to build throughout 2014 driving improvement in sales and profitability.
While 2013 will clearly be remembered as the challenging year I am proud of team's efforts to transform our business and position the company for long-term success.
And I want to sincerely thank the Target team for their tireless effort to help our guests recover from the data breach.
While there is much more work to be done I'm inspired by their singular focus on our guests and making things right.
As a result I'm confident we will look back on this incident and see that we emerged from it even stronger than before.
Now Kathy will provide more detail on our fourth quarter results and key initiatives as we enter 2014.
Kathy? Thanks Gregg.
In our last conference call we outlined our plans for the holiday season and mentioned that fourth quarter sales were on track through the first half of November.
As we progressed through Black Friday week and the first two weeks of December guests continued to respond to our promotions and sales ran ahead of our plan.
Following the data breach announcement and the rapid change in the pace of our sales the team reacted quickly making nimble adjustments to minimize our excess inventory.
This quick response allowed us to end the year with a clean inventory position.
And while our fourth quarter gross margin reflected the addition of clearance activity resulting from the sales slowdown our team did a great job minimizing the impact.
As we built our holiday plans our goal was to cut through the clutter and reach our guests with compelling offers on exciting merchandize specifically we aligned our weekly deals and events so guests were receiving a clear message across all channels.
And because our guests are budget conscious and love to find deals we intentionally layered promotions across our circular cartwheel and our catalog to provide unbeatable value.
We used our direct channels to drive urgency at key points of the season and we offered more broad attention-getting promotions like 40% off sweaters.
Consistent with past years we featured hot deals on key items but attracted more attention by offering deeper discounts on fewer items and we were very pleased with the guest response.
For the quarter overall our non-discretionary categories generally saw the strongest sales performance.
However on our more discretionary categories electronics saw an increase in fourth quarter comparable sales led by mobile phones tablets and video game hardware and software.
We also saw relative strength in our sporting goods and housewares categories.
Digital channels had a very strong holiday season.
Thanksgiving was our biggest digital sales day ever with mobile devices accounting for a full 25% of those sales.
We were recently recognized as having the most browsed app by a smartphone and tablet in 2013 and Mobile Commerce Daily just named Target Mobile Retailer and Commerce Website of the Year.
This is the second time we've been named Mobile Retailer of the Year and we're pleased to be the only retailer to be honored with the award twice.
An important factor in our digital success was the fourth quarter rollout of the opportunity to buy online and pick up in-store.
In-store pick up requests represented about 10% of fourth quarter digital orders but they peaked at a much higher rate before Christmas as guests relied on the service as a great solution for last-minute gift shopping.
About 30% of store visits to pick up an online order resulted in store shopping on that same trip and the size of that store transaction was much larger than an average store trip.
While we've rolled out the capabilities with an external commitment to have orders ready in four hours or less our team quickly attained our internal goal to have most orders ready in one hour or better.
Our survey showed consistently high levels of guest satisfaction with this service and this capability has accelerated our mobile conversion rates.
We're also pleased with the continued growth of Cartwheel our digital savings app which ended 2013 with over 5 million users who have already saved more than $43 million.
Younger guests are particularly engaged by Cartwheel as more than half of its users are Millennials a much higher percentage than they represent in our overall guest base.
Redemption rates on Cartwheel are more than 10 times higher than DC and other direct channels like receipt marketing and email and our analysis indicate that its driving incremental trips and sales.
Our pre-Black Friday deals resulted in one of the biggest days ever for Cartwheel as they drove one-third of our active users into Target stores on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving.
We continue to work to enhance the Cartwheel experience.
We recently added the ability to scan bar codes to find out if there's a Cartwheel deal on an item and added the capability to signup for Cartwheel directly through a Target account and email while continuing to provide access to the App through Facebook.
As Gregg mentioned we continue to listen to our guests to understand how we can help them move beyond the data breach and feel confident in shopping at Target.
While sales have started to recover in recent weeks and sentiment metrics have begun to improve most notably among our best guests.
We continue to invest to ensure this recovery continues.
Beyond our efforts in data security and chip enabled technology we're applying insights from the holiday season to make our merchandise stores and digital channels even more irresistible to our guests.
We continue to innovate in ways that differentiate both our product assortments and the guest experience and we’re investing in pricing and promotions to make our value proposition even stronger.
We’re very pleased with the response to Peter Pilotto for Target our most recent designer partnership which launched earlier this month.
This collection which features a limited edition assortment of women’s apparel accessories and swimwear is available at most of our U.S.
and Canadian stores and on target.com.
We have also partnered with Net-a-Porter.com to offer a curated assortment of the collection to fans across the globe.
With lots of social media buzz we a saw long lines outside many of our urban stores on the morning of the launch and the collection quickly became Net-a-Porter’s fastest selling collaboration in history.
Based on last years results Target and Sports Illustrated are once again partnering in support of the magazines annual swimsuit issue which is celebrating its 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary this year.
Target is the exclusive mass retail advertiser and official marketing partner for the issue.
This years partnership includes the new 20 page flip cover that celebrates swimsuit style over the past 50 years and features Target’s limited edition swimwear collection.
The collection launched at Target stores and on target.com February 17 in advance of the issues on stand date and includes 10 black gold and ivory swimsuits priced from $15 to $30.
Earlier this month Target began offering AMBAR a new apparel collection designed with the Latina guest in mind.
AMBAR is set in 50 U.S.
stores this month and is also available on target.com.
The line of apparel and accessories features vibrant prints and flattering cuts and silhouettes.
This stylish and affordable collection has items ranging from $17 to $40.
This spring Target will introduce an assortment of premium skincare featuring seven notable brands four of which will be exclusively sold at Target.
29 by Lydia Mondavi Borghese Laneige and MD Complete by Dr.
Zelickson along side industry favorite Vichy La Roche Posay and Own Skin Health.
These brands will be merchandised in two distinct sections dermatological skincare and specialty skincare and they have already launched on target.com.
We’ll begin rolling out the assortment to 749 U.S.
Target stores beginning in March.
So what's likely to be the biggest Blu-ray and DVD release of the year Target will offer an exclusive addition of Catching Fire the second film in The Hunger Games trilogy in stores and on target.com next month.
The Target exclusive Blu-ray addition includes 45 minutes of exclusive content from never before seen footage and cast interviews to a behind the scenes looks at the making of the film.
This spring award winning singer Shakira is teaming up with Target for her 10<sup>th</sup> studio album and our exclusive deluxe edition featuring three bonus tracks hit stores on March 25.
We announced the partnership and kicked off album preordering with a special spot during the 56<sup>th</sup> Annual Grammy Awards in January.
Last month we became the exclusive retailer to feature Beats music playlists.
Beats music is curated digital music streaming services that allows it's users to peep into the personal music libraries of their favorite artists and brands and have them create playlists just for them.
By subscribing to Target’s playlist guest can expect a very mix of songs inspired by Target’s rich heritage of music and the taste of the millions who shop for albums at Target each year.
In December we launched The Awesome Shop a beta site that features the top target products recently pinned on Pinterest.
The site lets guests explore get inspired and see what other guests love just like they do in stores.
Awesome Shop highlighted the best of the best by only featuring items at the target.com review of four stars or better.
We’re also leveraging Pinterest in another unique way to collaborate with three of the sites most influential pinners on a series of party planning collections that will make it easy to throw a Pinterest worthy event.
Joy Cho of Oh Joy Jan Halvarson of Poppytalk and Kate Arends of Wit &amp; Delight will each create limited time only collections launched over the course of 2014 including party décor paper products and serving pieces designed in their signature esthetic.
Beyond differentiated merchandise we continue to provide enhanced service in key areas of the store.
Based on guest response to last years launch we have expanded the Target Beauty Concierge’s program to more than 300 stores across the country with new markets including New York New Jersey San Francisco and Dallas-Fort Worth.
These beauty consultants are brand agnostic and provide guests with detailed unbiased information and a friendly face in what can often be an intermediating category.
We also continue to see great results from the pilot of our new baby layout a completely redesigned shopping experience that offers guests inspiring insightful solutions combined with the great value they’ve come to expect from Target.
This new layout features a dedicated service desk with a knowledgeable baby advisor to help guests navigate the area and provide unbiased product information.
Digital screens and iPads feature inspiration and interactive comparison tools and BabyCenter content such as buying guides and product reviews We have also incorporated an in department registry kiosk for expecting mom’s or guests looking to give a gift.
Merchandised displays have been lowered so guests can more easily interact with large products by travel systems in stores.
We have removed barriers to enhance navigation between apparel gear and baby essentials and we have highlighted the availability of additional online only items in key categories.
This summer we plan to grow from 30 stores to more than 200 locations featuring this enhanced baby experience.
And based on encouraging initial results in 2014 we’ll expand our test of using mannequins in apparel in our largest format U.S.
stores to elevate the store experience create an enhanced sense of discovery and bring our unique deigns to life.
We also continued to augment our digital capabilities driving traffic and sales to all of our channels.
Online our top priority in 2014 is continuing to improve the guest experience.
All of our efforts will be designed to make things simple seamless and enjoyable for our guests.
To support this priority we continue to hire external talent with deep functional expertise in online merchandising site merchandising mobile and analytics.
We have recently made enhancements focused on search product information and checkout making it easier for guests to browse and purchase.
In addition now nearly all store products are viable online making this the only place that guests can use Target’s full assortment.
Importantly we’re making enhancements while continuing to focus on stability and speed as a result target.com consistently ranks in the top 10 for retailer site availability and performance.
Given the profile of our guests mobile is more important at Target than for many of our peers.
For example Target’s guest traffic from tablets and mobile phones is greater than our traffic from traditional computers and the shift towards mobile shows no signs of slowing down.
In fact usage of the Target App doubled in the short period between last summer and the end of the year.
To maintain our strong momentum in mobile we’re testing and learning from new features including List Building Mapping and Cartwheel capabilities launched during the holiday season.
We’re improving conversion by streamlining checkouts and enhancing product information and dynamic content and we are investing to amplify the in-store mobile experience by rolling out guided maps in-store search and expanded assortment chain wide later this year.
We also continue to invest in our flexible fulfillment capabilities which combine the strengths of our digital store and distribution aspects to provide speed and convenience for our guests.
These capabilities allow our stores to add value in new ways serve our guests as both showroom and fulfillment centers.
Following the holiday seasons success of in-store pick up we are moving quickly to roll out the capabilities to shift online orders from our stores this fall.
This new capability will create multiple benefits for both Target as our guests including shorter shipping times reduced expenses lower markdown rates and improved in-stocks.
And because our investments in flexible fulfillment drive greater utilization of our existing stores and distribution center assets we expect to earn an outstanding return on these investments over time.
Finally we're pleased with initial performance of Target Ticket our streaming video service and we continue to invest in features to better serve guest changing needs and behaviors both inside and outside their home.
In 2014 we will coordinate our promotions across channels to provide irresistible video offers across our stores Target.com and Target Ticket.
While our fourth quarter results softened following the December 19 announcement of the data breach we are pleased with the guest response to our holiday season merchandizing and marketing efforts and we're confident in our plans for 2014.
As always our focus remains on our guests helping them regain their confidence in their Target while delivering irresistible content and experiences in every channel.
We believe that our efforts will drive a continued recovery in the pace of our sales and position Target for profitable growth in 2014 and beyond.
Now John will share his insights on our fourth quarter financial performance and our plans for the coming year.
John? Thanks Kathy.
Our fourth quarter financial results reflect strong efforts by our team to handle separate challenges in both our U.S.
and Canadian segments.
In the U.S.
comparable sales declined 2.5% consistent with the updated guidance we provided in our January press release.
This sales performance reflects a 5.5% decline in transactions partially offset by an increase in average ticket.
Prior to the announcement of the data breach fourth quarter comparable sales were running positive reflecting the success of our holiday merchandizing marketing plan.
Immediately following news of the breach sales turned meaningfully negative but began to recover in January.
And while it's impossible to measure precisely we believe we would have seen even more improvement had there not been extreme weather across much of the country.
Fourth quarter sales penetration on our REDcards was 20.9% up 5.4 percentage points from a year ago.
While the rate of increase slowed down following the breach year-over-year penetration continued to grow hundreds of basis points through the end of the quarter.
Fourth quarter U.S.
EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were down more than a percentage point from last year's rates which we were advised to reflect combined results from our former U.S.
retail and credit card segments.
These profit margins were below our expectations going into the quarter driven almost entirely by gross margin rate which declined about 20 basis points from the year ago.
This performance reflects about 20 basis points of benefit from this year's change in vendor payments offset by higher than expected markdowns related to the 10% off we offered prior to Christmas as well as the impact of clearance markdowns at the end of the holiday season.
Margin mix was somewhat less favorable than the recent quarters driven by strong sales in electronics.
While below our expectations fourth quarter U.S.
segment gross margin rate was remarkably strong considering the team had to rapidly manage excess inventory in the middle of the quarter when we experienced a sudden change in the pace of sales following the data breach announcement.
Our fourth quarter U.S.
segment SG&amp;A rate was 18.4% about 110 basis points above last year's revised rate.
About 50 basis points of this headwind was related to the credit card portfolio reflecting a smaller asset base last year's reserve release and this year's profit sharing arrangement with TD Bank.
Another 20 basis points of headwind was driven by this year's change in member payments.
The remaining unfavorability reflects the deleveraging effort of negative comp sales.
The fact that we experienced only 40 basis points of deleverage reflects strong control of variable expenses given the magnitude of our comparable sales decline.
In the Canadian segment sales came in just below expectations.
Importantly as Gregg mentioned we took advantage of holiday traffic to clear through a significant amount of excess inventory in the quarter.
And while we expect some small lingering issues with long lean receipts this year the Canadian segment ended 2013 in a much cleaner inventory position paving the way for smoother operations in 2014.
In all the segment drove $0.40 of EPS dilution in the fourth quarter better than the expectations we provided in our January press release.
Turning now to our consolidated metrics fourth quarter interest expense was 21% lower than last year reflecting the continued benefit of debt retirement funded by the proceeds from the sale of the credit card portfolio.
We paid dividends of $0.43 per share in the quarter an increase of more than 19% from fourth quarter 2012.
This was our 185th consecutive quarter in which our company has paid a dividend and 2013 marked the 42nd year of annual dividend increases a track record of few companies to match.
Consistent with last quarter we didn't purchase any shares in the fourth quarter reflecting current performance and our desire to maintain our debt rating in the middle A range.
This approach aligns with our longstanding point of view on capital deployment.
First we invest what we believe is appropriate in our core business.
Second we support the dividend which we've grown annually for more than four decades.
And third we use share repurchase to return cash within the limits of our middle A debt rating.
We believe a middle A rating is strategically important as it supports our ability to reliably deliver on our unbeatable pricing strategy over time.
In addition our balance sheet provides the flexibility to maintain our long-term focus in the face of unexpected events like the data breach enabling investment and strategic initiatives like flexible fulfillment while we deal with a temporary setback in traffic to sales along with other costs related to the breach.
In addition to operating results in the U.S.
and Canada our fourth quarter GAAP earnings reflects several items that reduced EPS by approximately $0.09.
These items include charges related to our January restructuring data breach related costs net of an insurance receivable and continued reduction in a beneficial interest asset partially offset by a small benefit from a resolution of income tax matters.
Combining fourth quarter results with performance in the first nine months of 2013 yields full year results that reflect the impact of clear successes and certain challenges.
In our U.S.
segment full year comparable sales declined 0.4% well below our expectations going into the year.
This reflects the tougher than expected consumer environment including the impact on the payroll tax increase which just annualized last month the fourth quarter impact of the data breach and recent headwinds from unfavorable weather as you've heard from many other retailers.
On our U.S.
sales we earned a gross margin rate of 29.8% in 2013 up about 10 basis points from 2012.
This rate reflects about 20 basis points of benefit from this year's change in vendor payments combined with very strong underlying margin performance in the face of softer than expected sales.
Throughout the year Kathy's team did a great job managing inventory resulting in outstanding in-stock levels while avoiding unnecessary clearance markdowns.
Our full year SG&amp;A expense rate in the U.S.
was 20% up about 90 basis points from last year's revised rate.
Contrary to what you might initially think this reflects outstanding performance in light of softer than expected sales and some notable challenges representing more than $600 million of incremental pressure.
Including credit card portfolio income which as you know reduces our SG&amp;A rate about $400 million lower than 2012 reflecting profit sharing with TD prior year reserve reductions and a smaller asset base this year.
And more than $200 million of expense pressure from incremental investments in technology and supply chain to support our multichannel efforts.
Without these impacts our SG&amp;A expense rate would have been slightly higher than 2012 but would have been neutral without this year's change in vendor payments.
This is better expense performance than we'd expect on a decline in comparable sales and was driven primarily by two factors; outstanding performance by our stores organization which continued to provide outstanding guest service while delivering productivity increases and our company-wide expense optimization efforts through which our teams are finding better ways to work while deprioritizing less productive activities.
As Gregg mentioned the team continues to find new opportunities to optimize expenses and we expect to reach $1 billion in annualized savings by 2015 helping to fund our efforts to drive profitable growth over the next several years.
For full year 2013 U.S.
REDcard penetration grew nearly 6 percentage points to 19.3% of sales as more and more guests increased their level of engagement and their spending with Target.
Penetration in Kansas City where we began offering REDcard awards a year ahead of the rest of the country continued to run well ahead of the U.S.
overall.
Importantly as part of our broader effort to rebuild traffic and sales in 2014 we will work to reaccelerate REDcard growth in light of the recent slowdown in growth we've seen following the data breach.
In Canada in 2013 we generated just over $1.3 billion in sales on 124 stores which were opened on average for a little more than half the year.
These sales were well below our plan going into the year leading to greater than expected markdowns on a meaningful amount of excess inventory Expense rate were unusually high as well as a result of opening early cycle stores with too many payroll hours incurring incremental expense relating to clearing inventory and experiencing less leverage on fixed expenses.
In the face of these challenges the team worked tirelessly to improve operations and work through excess inventory throughout the year clearing the way for an acceleration of sales and profitability beginning this year.
Our early cycle store continued to outperform later cycle stores giving is confidence that our operations will continue to become more efficient as our business matures.
And having dramatically reduced the congestion in our Canadian supply chain we will increase the intensity of our marketing message in 2014 regarding value and assortment in our frequency categories.
Over time we expect this will lead our Canadian guests to choose Target more often in these categories driving meaningful increases in traffic and sales.
Turning to capital deployment our total capital investment was about $3.5 billion in 2013 somewhat lower than expected as U.S CapEx of about $1.9 billion was approximately $300 million lower than anticipated.
This outcome doesn't reflect a change in strategy but is simply the result of a lower than expected cost for certain projects and retiming of suspending into 2014.
Having sold our credit card portfolio for about $5.7 billion in March we significantly reduced our net debt position in 2013 including the early retirement of Haikupon debt.
And importantly even in a year of peak CapEx and dilution relating to the Canadian segment combined with the impact of softer than expected U.S sales we still have the capacity to return about $2.5 billion to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase.
With that as context let's turn now to our outlook for 2014.
But before we get to the numbers I want to discuss a change in our reporting and guidance practices in 2014.
Given that our Canadian segment is now fully operating beginning with the first quarter of 2014 we will no longer exclude Canadian segment performance from adjusted EPS.
To allow for appropriate comparison last year's adjusted EPS will also reflect Canadian segment performance as well.
With that let's turn to our full-year outlook beginning with sales.
While trends have improved in recent weeks severe winter weather has been a headwind and we continue to see the impact of the data breach on guest sentiment and traffic.
We believe that we will continue to see muted trends in the next few months but the breach impact will diminish throughout the year as we engage in a vigorous effort to address our guests’ concerns and provide irresistible content offers driving business to our stores and digital channels.
In addition while economic trends are improving we continue to expect our lower and middle income guests to shop very cautiously in 2014.
With that backdrop our current view is that U.S comparable sales will grow in the range of 0% to 2% in 2014.
On those sales we expect a U.S segment EBITDA rate of 10.1% to 10.3% meaning EBITDA dollar should grow between 5% and 8% this year.
Among the drivers of EBITDA margin we expect gross margin will improve 30 or 40 basis points from our 2013 rate of 29.8% reflecting improved clearance markdown rates and more significantly the gross margin benefit of our expense optimization efforts.
These benefits will be partially offset by the impact of additional promotional activities and continued investment in 5% REDcard rewards.
We expect the U.S segment SG&amp;A expense rate slightly better than last year’s 20% rate reflecting continued discipline expense control and the benefit of our expense optimization efforts offset by our continued investments in distribution and technology in support of our multi-channel efforts.
We expect these (indiscernible) investments to be worth $0.05 to $0.10 of incremental EPS pressure in 2014.
In Canada we expect total sales will be approximately double our 2013 experience.
As we annualize last year’s124 openings and begin generating comparable sales growth in mature stores.
On those sales we expect to earn a much higher gross margin rate in a range approaching 30%.
But clearly we continue to see some near-term volatility until the Until the Canadian business matures.
While we expect to see better fixed expense leverage in 2014 the SG&amp;A rate will likely remain well above our long-term outlook in a range approaching 40%.
Altogether this will lead to a Canadian segment EBITDA margin rate of minus 8% to minus 10% representing more than $400 million of expected EBITDA improvement from 2013.
We expect U.S capital expenditures of $2.1 billion -- $2.3 billion up slightly from actual 2013 spending.
The mix of U.S CapEx will continue to tilt from investments in new stores towards supply chain and technology as we accelerate our multi-channel efforts and continue to find a limited number of new store sites that meet our strategic and financial criteria.
I should also note that U.S CapEx reflects incremental investments related to our recent decision to accelerate deployment of chip enabled card readers to all of our U.S stores before the end of the year.
In Canada we expect 2014 capital expenditures in the $300 million to $400 million range down more than $1 billion from peak spending in 2013.
We expect once again to raise our annual dividend in the neighborhood of 20% this year which will mark our 43rd consecutive annual increase.
And even with a temperate outlook for near-term traffic and sales and understanding there will be further costs relating to the data breach our current outlook envision share repurchase capacity of $1 billion to $2 billion in 2014 beginning later in the year as our business stabilizes and we have more clarity on potential breach related costs.
Altogether these expectations would lead to full-year adjusted EPS representing results from operations in the U.S and Canada of $3.85 to $4.15.
This estimate excludes approximately $0.07 of dilution related to the continued reduction in the beneficial interest asset.
These 2014 expectations represent an improvement of more than 20% from combined U.S and Canadian segment results in 2013.
Please note that our full-year outlook does not include potential additional costs relating to the data breach beyond what we already recorded in the fourth quarter as they’re not estimable at this time.
While I realize this may result in a wide range of speculation on the magnitude of these costs given that our investigation of breach is ongoing it would not be appropriate to say anything more about it than we already have this morning.
Regardless of the ultimate dollar amounts as Greg mentioned we have the financial strength to move beyond these near-term impacts while we continue to invest in the future.
And as always we are focused on what's most important addressing the concerns of our guests and helping them to feel confident shopping with us.
Now let's briefly turn to our first quarter outlook.
In the U.S we expect first quarter comparable sales in the range of flat to down 2%.
So far in February comparable sales have been running within that range ahead of our forecast and nearly flat to last year.
And I should note while growth isn’t running where it had been earlier in 2013 REDcard penetration so far in February has been running 100s of basis points ahead of last year.
On our first quarter U.S sales we expect an EBITDA margin rate of 9.7% to 9.9%.
In Canada we expect to generate first quarter sales in a range of $400 million to $450 million with EBITDA of minus $150 million to minus $170 million.
In light of this near-term operating outlook we don't expect to have the capacity to repurchase shares in the first quarter but we expect to resume this activity later in the year.
Altogether our expectations would lead to first quarter adjusted EPS reflecting operating results in the U.S and Canada in the range of $0.60 to $0.75 excluding $0.02 relating to the reduction in the beneficial interest asset and any potential costs related to the data breach.
While this has been a challenging year we are proud of the work of our team and we believe we have the right plans in place to generate meaningfully improved performance in 2014.
As we focus on making Target irresistible for our guests both today and over time we believe we will go profitably for many years to come.
With that we'll conclude today's prepared remarks.
Now Greg Kathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
On the same-store sales trends for February being down in that 0% to 2% range probably little bit better than people expected.
I guess you over time Target has been on an aggressive campaign to drive frequency with REDcard and remodeling more stores towards food but given that P Fresh is maturing here and the credit breach could curb some of the willingness to sign up for REDcard and online taking a bigger portion of the overall retail landscape.
How should we think about some of the big initiatives or the big picture initiatives to drive same-store sales trends in 2014 and beyond? You know Sean I think a lot of the things that I talked about today with product as well as with in-store experience and our mobile experience those are really the key things for us to help drive people to shop at Target beyond the food that you talked about and of course the REDcard.
Okay.
And then just on the food I guess aspect of things how are you on the in-stocks in that particular category and are you happy with the product that you have out there on the shelf today? Yes in-stocks have been rock solid for quite some time.
In terms of products I would tell you that we're always making adjustments to what we carry in-stores.
We learn what selling and what trends are picking up steam things like organics and better for your products.
So that's a never-ending thing that we work on.
Okay great.
And then just one last thing you mentioned the online and the flexible fulfillment I think that all of those can now be viewed online which is great for the consumer but when do you think or is it going to be possible for all of those products for buying online and picking up in-store? We are expanding the assortment right now.
I don't have a date for you in terms of when we'll get our whole assortment up online.
And right now we're focusing on the most popular items and categories that we recently added pets for example and we'll just continue to expand as we learn more and more about that program.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
I've got two questions and the first relates to inventory.
I know you cleared a lot of inventory in Canada.
Your year-on-year numbers still across the corporation across the enterprise is still up quite substantially relative to sales.
So if you could comment on sort of the composition of that inventory and your thought process for its impact on margin going forward? Sure.
Inventory up about 10% year-over-year and you can roughly think about that split about equally between Canada and the U.S.
Canada obviously we're just in a different place than we were a year ago.
We built inventories all year as we opened stores.
I would tell you in Canada we feel much much better.
We feel very good about the progress we made in the fourth quarter clearing excess inventory.
The average inventory per store in Canada from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter was down about 30%.
So we still have some lingering issues in Q1 with some long lean receipts but feel very good about the inventory there.
In the U.S.
I would tell you the merchant team did an outstanding job reacting to the change in sales and our inventories are in excellent shape.
This is the time of year where in February we are changing lots of things in the store and frankly depending on where you snap the line for yearend relative to our receipts we see inventory move around a little bit.
If you go back over the past couple of years our inventory per store in the U.S.
is up about 3% versus two years ago.
So this is really more timing than anything else and we feel very good about the inventory position.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up really is to capital allocation and specifically the buyback.
I know that you alluded to the company's desire to maintain its current credit rating and that you spoke about resuming buybacks as the year progressed presuming that you are on plan.
I just want to talk about what your thought process is for contingent fees? Based on the numbers we've looked at it seems like you're a long way from coming close to the edge on your current credit rating.
So what would it take for you not to do that $1 billion to $2 billion? It seems like that should be well within your financial capacity even if frankly the numbers are a bit light of your current guide? Well we should go offline and review where you think we are versus our credit rating and where we think we are versus our credit rating.
We've actually run pretty close to our credit rating not just last year which was even higher but for the past several years.
So our view is that we think we can do given our plans between $1 billion and $2 billion.
We need to see our business results improve over the next couple of quarters.
We're starting to see that in February as we alluded to.
And then also get a little bit of a view into what the potential costs are that maybe coming our way as a result of the breach.
But given all of that we still think somewhere in $1 billion to $2 billion beginning probably in the back half of the year for the year makes sense.
Just finally I know you're not going to quantify the cost of the breach but it sounds like and thinking about the capacity to buy back stock you have somewhere internally a sense of that number that would enable you to pursue that course? As we said it's not estimable at this time what the potential cost of the breach is and given where we are in the process it'd be inappropriate for me to speculate.
Fair enough.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Hi.
Thanks.
I had a couple of questions.
Just a quick follow-up on the breach costs.
You showed a net you got some insurance payments from the breach cost that you had.
Should we expect that or do you have any insurance for these potential costs whatever they may be or is that sort of a one-off in the quarter? Then a follow-up.
Just to be clear that was insurance receivable so we haven't actually received payment but we feel very likely to receive payment for a portion of the expenses we incurred in the fourth quarter.
What we can say about insurance right now is at this point we think there's $44 million of insurance that we'll receive.
And to the extent that number changes we'll be back here to provide more information.
Okay great.
And a bigger picture on REDcard and traffic.
I mean traffic was down 5.5% in the quarter.
Presumably post the breach it was down – pick a number like 7% or 8%.
Is it fair to say that traffic has recovered back to what it was in January and February where we are now and how is REDcard seasoning [ph]? Those people have now had it for three of four years how are those people behaving following the breach? Thanks.
Yes on traffic you're view of what happened post the breach is pretty accurate and we have seen traffic continue to improve and firm up and definitely throughout February we've seen traffic firm up.
And as we said sales have improved and a big part of that has been traffic.
On the REDcard what we've seen and Kathy talked about this a little bit in our REDcard guest they've continued to shop with us and we've seen very strong sales from that.
REDcard penetration continues to grow meaningfully hundreds of basis points year-over-year.
And to the extent we're not growing where we used to that's driven by new accounts.
So the guests who have REDcards continue to shop our stores.
So it's more of the penetration growth from new people signing up or from people that signed up shopping more? As has been the case over the past couple of year the penetration growth comes from new accounts.
Thanks a lot.
Good luck.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I'm just wondering if you could provide a little more color on the top spreads that you're seeing between states that have been severely impacted by weather and some of your warmer weather states? Great question Matt.
It's analyzing weather isn't a perfect science.
I would say when we see – in the Midwest in the Northeast when we've seen these weather patterns go across the country the spread is significant between the two.
But ultimately as that passes we see them re-stabilize and everything come back to normal.
But the difference while it is going on is pretty dramatic.
It's in single digits difference but it'd be high single digits.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then secondly you gave some great detail on your investments in digital and ecommerce this year.
As you enable click and collect and fulfillment from store are there any significant investments you need to make in terms of inventory accuracy in the store and could you just give us maybe a bit of color on how that's running in terms of being able to pick up in-store? We're always working on inventory accuracy and that is a combination of how we use our systems as well as the processes in-store.
And so it's been less of an issue to date as we get into some of the additional categories things like beauty where there's a lot of SKUs we got to make sure that the accuracy is there.
I will tell you apparel while we've had good results there it's a little bit harder partly accuracy but partly being able to find the exact size when it's not in a planogrammed environment.
So there are a few challenges for us to figure out but overall I would tell you that our guest response has been very positive in the survey comments that they have back to us.
They really love the service.
So yes we will keep working on accuracy to make sure that we can fulfill as many orders as possible.
But so far we're very pleased.
Okay.
And then lastly your SG&amp;A per foot in the U.S.
was down pretty substantially in the fourth quarter versus the last few years.
Well how should we think about SG&amp;A per foot on a full-year basis for ’14 in the U.S.
should it -- is that a number that you can keep relatively flat or is there just some inherent inflation there that we should expect? First the comparison to last year we have to be a little bit careful there’s a 53<sup>rd</sup> week in there that’s a relatively low volume week which creates a little bit of distortion year-over-year.
But I think as I said we continue to work very hard on store productivity ensuring that we’re driving great guest experience and in-stocks but also improving our productivity.
And then all of the expense optimization efforts continued to go on and some portion of that will fall to the bottom line some portion of that goes to gross margin and some portion of that gets reinvested in the business as we invest in multi-channel technology supply chain.
But I think flat to up slightly is probably about the best way to think about it.
Thanks.
Good luck this year.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Drbul with Nomura.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple of questions first on -- you gave a number on the online business in terms of the increase that you had in the fourth quarter? We didn’t give a number but I’ll tell you it's very positive above the industry and slightly above 20%.
Well I’d be honest to the business it was impacted by the breach as well.
Okay.
And then when you look at the full-year actually pointing out you gave a lot of details in terms of like the sales recovery that you have what are the key factors that gave you the comfort and confidence in the recovery over this year as you plan the earnings and sales trajectory? Well it's from our perspective we got to up our game on all fronts it starts with delivering great content great in-stocks our team is more engaged than ever from a service standpoint both on the sales floor and at the lanes.
And we’re going to deliver as Kathy said just some eye popping irresistible deals.
So we’re going to really up the [ante] [ph] as it relates to making a statement on our unbeatable pricing proposition which we have.
I mean we price matched the competition and we run our circulars and with our 5% REDcard rewards program our pricing our value proposition is unbeatable.
So we’re just going to call greater attention to that and selectively we’re going to go out and be more aggressive in that regard.
And so it's the combination of all of those elements.
And then on the gross margin outlook for Canada can you just talk about the mix assumptions in there and sort of also like the ramp from where you finished fourth quarter to get to that 30% number for the year? Sure mix in Canada continues to be stronger in apparel and home.
And we expect that to moderate through time.
We ultimately think the mix there will be stronger than what we see in the U.S.
but a lot like our high volume stores in the U.S.
our urbane stores in the U.S.
we see a higher mix of home and apparel sales.
That will moderate through time because we want to drive the frequency categories that’s what we’re working on the team in Canada ultimately if they’re successful in driving conversion and commodities grocery food all those categories we’ll see that mix moderate.
I think we’ll see margin – we expect to see some volatility Q1 for instance the margin rate won't be at 30% but it will be significantly improved from the 4.4% we recorded in the fourth quarter.
So we’ll make progress and you should expect to see that throughout the year and of course back in fourth quarter next year we’ll be down a little bit from that 30% as it's typical on our U.S.
business given that time of year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay we have time for one more question please.
Okay.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Thanks and good morning.
A couple of random questions so could you perhaps breakout how much was the explicit impact of the 10% off deal that you did after the breach and right ahead of Christmas? Chris we don’t breakout promotions individually it was a big time of year and the number was relatively large but in the big scheme in the fourth quarter I would tell you it's not material.
Okay.
And then on the cost savings side I guess how much of the billion dollars is done so far and what has been the big drivers this year that have taken those costs out? There’s $200 million that we recorded in 2014 we’ll annualize on that next year.
And the savings came from all over the corporation.
There were savings in gross margin around transportation expenses that will grow again in 2014.
There were savings really it's for it to pin it down it was literally across the entire organization where we looked at things.
We looked at how we sourced product and aligning our non-retail product that we source in services and making that look more like we do in merchandising and we saw significant savings there from our sourcing.
There’s more to do there and we’ll see that grow in 2014 as well.
But as Gregg said it was literally across the entire organization where we were focused on stopping things that we didn’t need to do I mean if we did need to do them improving productivity.
And then one last one; how would have the – if you had chip technology in your stores this past year how would the breach outcomes change would it stop the actual CES to the credit card data or would it stop the personal information disclosure? The chip technology makes it such that using the account numbers without the card becomes very much more difficult.
And so the desire to obtain those card numbers goes down significantly.
What we’ve seen in other countries that have adopted chip technology as fraud rates go down dramatically for in-store transactions.
I think in the U.K.
or Europe I can’t remember exactly down like 60% once chip technology was enabled.
And so the desire those account numbers just become less desirable.
But didn’t the breach actually come from systems internally not necessarily coming from the card readers.
Yes Chris we’re in the middle of an investigation and we can’t talk about the specifics.
We continue to learn there’ll be learning’s that come out of that investigation and from those learning’s we’ll take actions and that’s about what we can say today.
Fair enough.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Well that concludes Target’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Again thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday May 21 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Senior Director Investor Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on our 2014 first quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are John Mulligan Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer; and Kathee Tesija Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain officer.
This morning John will provide a high level summary of our first quarter results and strategic priorities for the remainder of the year then Kathee will discuss results in the U.S and Canada guest insights and plans for the second quarter and beyond.
And finally John will provide more detail on our financial performance along with our outlook for the second quarter and the full year.
Following their remarks we’ll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we are joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John and I will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP EPS is included in this morning’s press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
With that I’ll turn it over to John for a review of the quarter and our priorities going forward.
John? Thanks John.
First off today I want to thank the Target team for their energy and commitment.
The first quarter was unusually challenging as we worked hard to help our guests recover from the data breach.
Because of the team’s efforts traffic and sales trends have improved substantially and we’re in a much better position today than we were just three months ago.
Also before I turn to the first quarter operating results I want to briefly discuss the board’s recent announcement of Gregg Steinhafel’s departure and the initiation of a comprehensive internal and external search for a permanent replacement.
I want to thank Greg for all his contributions to Target over his 35 year career and I’m humbled to follow him into this role even on an interim basis.
With the full support of the board Kathee and I along with the rest of the leadership team have made it clear to the entire Target team that we are not going to wait for a permanent CEO to improve our operations and performance.
We are already taking important steps including management changes announced yesterday to move the organization forward.
This morning we reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.70 above the midpoint of our guidance.
This is the result of generally in line performance in both the U.S and Canada combined with a better than expected tax rate driven by a variety of small matters none of which was individually significant.
Our U.S segment comparable sales decline of 0.3% was near the upper end of our guidance and reflects meaningful improvement from trends we were experiencing shortly after the breach.
When we survey consumers we increasingly hear that they have put the breach behind them and they’re resuming their Target shopping habits.
We’re pleased with this progress and continuing to take steps that reinforce our commitment to earn back the trust of our guests.
We recently announced that we’ve hired Bob DeRodes as our new Chief Information Officer and I’m confident that Bob is the right person to lead our technology transformation and data security remediation efforts.
That same day we also announced the important decision to move all of our REDcards under MasterCard’s industry leading chip-and-PIN technology.
This decision along with our accelerated rollout of chip-enabled card readers to all of our stores by this September are among many crucial steps we’re taking to restore confidence among our guests that it’s safe to shop at Target.
The first quarter Canadian segment results were also largely in line with our expectations.
Sales were just below the expected range driven by softness early in the quarter.
While losses were meaningfully in the fourth quarter we’re still far from where we need to be.
We continued to roll out enhanced tools and technology.
We’ve increased the intensity of our volume messaging and we’ve made several important changes to the Target Canada leadership team during the quarter.
As a result we’re beginning to see improved guest satisfaction measures regarding in-stocks and price perception.
While these early signs of progress indicate that we're moving in the right direction we're committed to moving faster.
As we look ahead to the second quarter and beyond the Board and our team are aligned on three priorities.
The first is growing traffic and sales in our U.S.
segment.
While the environment is challenging we can do better.
We need to improve on something we've historically done well delivering unique products and services at great prices.
As a result we're working quickly to drive more newness in our merchandising and presentation helping to keep Target top in mind with guests by continually reminding them why they fell in love with Target in the first place.
Second we must improve our Canadian segment performance.
Canada is a great market and Target is a great retailer but so far we have not lived up to our potential or our expectations.
Improving operations is key but we need to think broadly about all aspects of our business and whether other changes are needed.
We've made changes to the Target Canada leadership team so they could take a hard look at our current performance and apply fresh thinking about how to improve.
Finally we need to accelerate our digital transformation and become a leading Omni-channel retailer.
To do this we'll move more quickly to become more flexible in how we serve our guests eliminating barriers that prevent them from shopping with us where and when they want.
This includes delivering products and services more flexibly in our stores or anywhere else the guest wants to receive them.
Our common theme across all of these priorities is a continued focus on our guests not just the ones we currently have but the potential guests who aren't shopping with us today.
We need to listen intently to all of them how they're feeling what they want and how well we're serving them.
With that knowledge we need to make decisions based on what will inspire them deepening their love for Target by making their lives easier and apply all of our energy to make that happen.
Finally we know we can't accomplish any of this unless we unleash the talents of our great team.
So we are focused on prioritizing and aligning our efforts to provide greater clarity and removing roadblocks that have been slowing our team down.
We will empower them to take smart risks and hold ourselves accountable for learning quickly from the results.
We have been on this journey for some time but the Board believes and we agree that we can accelerate our progress.
Given the recent announcements of leadership changes many of you asked what is going to change.
While that is certainly important I want to make sure we discuss what is and is not going to change.
What clearly will change includes our emphasis on speed throughout the organization our commitment to more rapid improvement in Canada our focus on digital and becoming a leading Omni-channel retailer and the level of investment in newness and innovation and what we offer to our guests.
While we work for those goals we'll continue to develop smaller more flexible store formats to allow us to serve guests in markets that can accommodate our larger store layouts.
We'll continue our expense optimization efforts.
Our goal is not to cut our way to prosperity but to free up resources we can leverage and support a faster growth.
Finally our point of view on capital deployment remains the same.
This has always been a Board level discussion and we continue to be aligned with them on the following priorities; invest everything appropriate in our core business on projects that will support Target's growth and generate superior returns; support the dividend and build on our record of more than 40 years of annual dividend increases.
And beyond those first two uses return cash through share repurchase when we have room within our middle A credit ratings.
The Board has made it clear that they agree with these priorities and that our leadership team has their full support.
Our mission from the Board is clear; provide focus remove roadblocks and unleash the team to move faster.
As Jeff Jones our Chief Marketing Officer likes to say interim will not mean idle.
We're committed to making real changes now accelerating our transformation during this transition period while the Board conducts its search for a permanent CEO.
Now Kathee will provide more details on first quarter results second quarter plans and key priorities for the remainder of the year.
Kathee? Thanks John.
As John mentioned we entered the first quarter during a tumultuous time for our U.S.
business as traffic and sales trends were still recovering from the meaningful declines we saw following the data breach.
Our plan was clear; make Target irresistible to our guests with exciting content and compelling deals.
Our efforts produced mixed results for the quarter reflecting unfavorable weather in February followed by the strongest results in March and weaker than expected Easter sales in April.
In total first quarter performance was meaningfully better than the fourth quarter as comparable sales improved by more than 2 percentage points and comparable transactions improved even more.
In our U.S.
business first quarter comparable sales were strongest in hard lines driven by a mid-single-digit increase in electronics which continues to benefit from strong trends in mobile.
Comparable sales in our less discretionary food health and beauty categories were slightly positive while home and apparels saw small comp declines with our digital channels' first quarter sales were strongest in health and beauty and home.
U.S.
segment comparable traffic was down a little more than 2% which was nearly offset by a healthy 2.1% increase in basket size.
Within the average basket we saw an increase in both units and average retail reflecting our continued success in attracting guests to add more items to their carts and trade up to higher price points.
First quarter digital visits were up more than 20% from a year ago which according to comScore was the fastest growth among a group consisting of Target and seven of our largest online competitors.
The share of digital visits from a mobile phone or a tablet continues to grow and in the first quarter almost two-thirds of our digital traffic was on one of these devices.
Conversion rates on both our conventional and mobile sites improved in the first quarter driving an increase in overall conversion despite the mixed headwind created by the shift into mobile.
The combined benefit of traffic and conversion improvements drove first quarter digital channel sales up more than 30% from last year.
Our U.S.
segment first quarter gross margin rate was down more than 1 percentage point from last year as our team focused on providing irresistible deals for our guests.
Based on the success of fourth quarter promotions prior to the data breach we had already planned for a steady drumbeat of compelling offers this spring.
However following the data breach we decided to ramp up the intensity of these promotions even more to motivate guests to reestablish their shopping routine at Target.
For example in late February we offered Five 12 packs of Coke products for $10 our lowest price in more than a decade.
In early March we featured a spring cleaning incentive offering $20 in savings when guests spent $50 on cleaning products.
Also in March our shoe sale featured a buy one get one half off promotion.
And in April we ran a Cartwheel offer to save an extra 10% on 42 of our biggest deals from the front and back cover of our weekly ad.
In the U.S.
to help reinforce Target as the destination to shop for anything anytime anywhere we've launched the yearlong Target Run marketing campaign featuring national and owned brand items across categories like food personal care baby paper and pets.
This Run campaign will change with seasons and other timely events and is intended to make Target our guest destination for those fill-in trips they might consider making at a drug or a grocery store.
While there is certainly more work to do we are pleased that so many of our guests have responded to our promotions and moved beyond the data breach to resume their Target shopping habits.
In fact recent survey research show that the vast majority of our lapsed guests those who had changed their shopping habits and not visited Target since the data breach had come back for at least one visit by the end of the first quarter.
And while irresistible first quarter promotions were key to reinforcing the pay less side of our brand promise we were equally focused on initiatives that offer newness and deliver on the expect more side of that promise.
We led off the quarter with the February launch of Peter Pilotto for Target.
Guests in the U.S.
and Canada and worldwide through our collaboration with Net-A-Porter responded enthusiastically to Target's exclusive collection of women's apparel accessories and swimwear.
Home is already one of our fastest growing online categories and while we feel good about our opening price point offerings we believe we can more fully serve guests at higher price points.
To begin addressing this opportunity in March Target.com launched over 2 000 new furniture items from Safavieh a brand that online guests recognize for having great style at an accessible price.
Target's assortment features stylish items and furniture rug lighting and soft home including many Target exclusives.
Safavieh anchored the spring home sale during April week three and was showcased on the Target.com homepage and we're happy with early sales results.
Guests are increasingly looking for natural organic and sustainable products that are better for them and their families.
So in March we launched Made to Matter hand-picked by Target a first of its kind collection that brings together 16 leading natural organic and sustainable brands to showcase new products and make them more accessible for our guests.
The Made to Matter products span six categories featured both in our regular locations and in specialized displays while select products are available at Target.com and our mobile app.
We'll be adding new items to this collection throughout the year and enticing guests to try these products with offers on Cartwheel.
Also in the first quarter we were blown away by the response to the release of Disney's Frozen on DVD and Blu-ray and we saw amazing results across music movies and books.
In fact when Frozen was released on DVD and Blu-ray in March it became the most successful first day release for any movie in Target history.
And in the short time since the movie has become Target's biggest movie ever.
In the first month alone we sold more units than we sold in the first year of Finding Nemo which previously held the record for our biggest release.
In children's books Frozen continues to be the number one license in the first quarter and we sold hundreds of thousands of units since its set last September.
And finally in music the Frozen soundtrack also held the number one spot throughout the first quarter selling more units in April than all of our other releases combined.
Cartwheels just celebrated its one-year anniversary having far outpaced our expectations.
Cartwheel has attracted more than 7 million users in that time most of whom continue to use Cartwheel after their first redemption.
Cumulative Cartwheel savings have grown past $70 million and our active Cartwheel users have on average increased their trips and spend at Target by nearly 30% driving hundreds of millions of incremental sales from these households.
And in the first quarter we saw a 33% increase in new Cartwheel users when we integrated the app into our weekly ad for the first time.
We continue to see encouraging results from our recent rollout of in-store pickup of digital orders.
These orders make up about 10% of our digital transactions and when guests pick up their items more than 20% of the time they take the opportunity to shop the store and spend much more than our average basket.
In the first quarter we expanded the number of SKUs eligible for in-store pickup to more than 60 000 including some shelf stable grocery items.
Following a successful shift from store tests with Minneapolis team members we are planning to launch a guest facing $10 rush delivery pilot in June in the Minneapolis Boston and Miami markets offering guests the ability to order as late as 1.30 p.m.
in the afternoon and receive a delivery of qualifying items between 6.00 p.m.
and 9.00 p.m.
the same day.
Later in the year we plan to rollout standard shipping from 136 stores in 38 markets across the country.
By leveraging the store network as fulfillment centers we can offer faster standard shipping typically one to two days and provide access to store only items not previously available from Target.com.
We will continue to monitor results to determine further rollout plans.
As John mentioned in Canada we continue to enhance our operations in the first quarter and our in-stocks have started to show meaningful improvement.
At the same time we ramped up our promotional intensity to show our guests the depth breadth and pricing of our assortment in frequency categories and our guests have taken notice.
In a recent survey of Canadian guests we saw double-digit improvements in favorable responses to questions regarding our in-stocks whether we provide a good value our everyday pricing and the quality of our deals.
First quarter Canadian segment sales were slightly below plan driven by softness in February and March and stronger performance in April.
Our gross margin rate of 18.7% improved dramatically from the fourth quarter but it remains far below where it needs to be as we continue to clear excess inventory on long lead receipts.
While our progress in Canada is encouraging we have an opportunity to move much faster.
Yesterday we announced that Mark Schindele has assumed the role of President Target Canada reporting to me.
Mark is a strong leader who has spent the last 15 years at Target.
He has broad experience in merchandising and operations and he will bring a fresh perspective to the Target Canada team.
Mark will join Janna Adair Potts who recently took on responsibility for our Canadian Stores and Distribution; John Butcher our new leader of Merchandising in Canada; Livia Zufferli who leads Target Canada Marketing; Tiffany Monroe who leads Target Canada Human Resources; and Mark Wong Target Canada's General Counsel; as they elevate all aspects of our Canadian business and implement changes to improve our performance.
Yesterday we also announced that Target will be naming a Non-Executive Chair in Canada someone with deep knowledge and expertise in the Canadian market who will collaborate with the President of Target Canada to ensure our strategies and tactics align with the Canadian marketplace.
Here in the U.S as we survey our guests and monitor consumer sentiment we continue to see what we have seen for some time; signs of optimism combined with reasons for continued caution.
On the positive side recent stock market highs slow but persistent job growth and rising home values are driving improved consumer sentiment metrics.
However lack of income growth among more moderate income families and persistent lack of household formation are hampering the pace of recovery.
Given our exposure to lower and middle income households the environment remains challenging overall and we face the additional challenge of addressing the lingering effects of the data breach.
Consumer survey data shows that we've made substantial progress on measures of Target's favorability and integrity in the U.S.
and they are approaching levels we were seeing prior to the data breach.
However while trust measures have improved as well we need to make more progress to restore them to pre-breach levels.
That's why we're focused on delivering on our commitment to accelerate the rollout of chip-and-PIN on our cards and in our stores along with many other visible steps we are taking to increase the security of the entire U.S.
card payment system.
As John mentioned for the remainder of the year we're working quickly to enhance the flow of newness and innovation in our products presentation and promotions.
For the second quarter we've lined up compelling deals services and products designed to accelerate trips to Target across all of our channels.
We are further enhancing our mobile platform to improve the experience and drive continued increases in conversion.
Advancements underway are planned for this year include more sorting options for guests shopping on a mobile device a save for later option in the mobile basket better visibility to our in-store pickup capabilities streamline mobile checkout and dynamic customized landing pages.
We're also growing services like Target Subscriptions that make life easier for our guests.
With very little marketing the pilot of our subscriptions program quickly grew to account for more than 15% of Target.com sales on eligible items.
As a result we recently enhanced the program by expanding eligible items nearly 10-fold and offering a 5% discount on all subscription orders helping our guests save even more time and money.
We're continuing to integrate last year's acquisitions into Target's digital and store experiences.
At DermStore we're testing integration into our weekly digital ad and we'll begin selling DermStore gift cards in all stores in July.
At CHEFS and Cooking.com we're working to integrate their site content into our overall digital experience continuing to expand the CHEFS assortment on Target.com and promoting both digital brands through inserts in millions of Target.com orders for cooking and kitchen items.
Beyond acquisitions we're excited about our investment in startup company Cosmic Cart which offers a universal shopping cart for publishing websites and blogs.
Their technology allows retailers to make sales directly from Cosmic Cart affiliate sites and allows shoppers to easily buy items while browsing online content.
Beyond our investment Target incubated the Cosmic Cart team at our Minneapolis headquarters for three months.
During that time the team built a white label product for Target to use on our own online and social channels.
This product allows shoppers to purchase a Target product they see on a specific channel like the Instagram page of Target Style without having to leave to checkout on Target.com.
We look forward to seeing how our guests respond to Cosmic Cart as we continue to test new ways to use their technology.
Our wedding and baby registries have always been a smart way to shop for guests but in U.S.
stores this summer they'll get even smarter with new web enabled iPod based scanners that give guests a much more user friendly experience.
In apparel earlier this month we launched a new exclusive Mossimo Supply Company apparel collection in partnership with San Francisco based artist and avid surfer Jeff Canham.
This collection of classic surf inspired apparel includes tees tanks sport shorts flip flops and beach towels.
Also this month we launched the new Archer Farms Mix &amp; Match Meals program in all of our SuperTarget and PFresh locations more than 1 500 stores in all.
With this program guests can create a custom design meal for their family of four that's ready in 10 to 15 minutes and costs less than $18.
These meals are comprised of unique sauces fresh cut and pre-washed vegetables fully cooked pastas and starches and all natural pre-cooked meats.
And of course we're investing in service in-store service and layout enhancements that will continue to differentiate the Target experience.
In baby we've heard from guests that they love shopping our stores but want help in making the smartest choices.
Our enhanced baby experience provides just that with dedicated service enhanced technology expert information from BabyCenter and an easier to shop layout that allows guests to try out items like strollers.
We expanded the test of this layout to nearly 30 stores this spring on our way to more than 200 locations this summer.
Like baby the beauty category can be overwhelming and we want to inspire educate and engage our guests.
Our Beauty Concierge program currently in more than 400 stores offers guests the opportunity to interact with brand agnostic non-commission-based advisors who help them feel confident in their purchases driving sales through increased trips and bigger baskets.
This spring we executed the largest physical update to the skincare and cosmetic aisles since 2001.
The new environment includes brighter more inviting LED lighting large backlit signage highlighting product attributes and ingredients to help informed decisions and shelving that allows for brand customization and cleaner presentations.
In entertainment and electronics we're testing a new layout that invites guests to discover products and make more informed purchase decisions.
Examples include discovery tables to display featured items and allow guests to interact and play with products as well as the integration of all children's books movies and video game products in convenient locations.
In addition to physical changes this test incorporates enhanced team member training on product features and functionality.
This redesigned experience is currently being tested in 17 stores and will determine future plans based on guests feedback.
Based on our experience in Canada and our CityTarget stores we are testing enhanced displays including mannequins which elevate the environment and help our guests save time by providing navigational cues throughout the area.
Based on positive results from a limited test this spring we plan to roll out enhanced apparel displays to 50 additional stores this summer and several hundred more stores this fall.
We're in early stages of a test of a new toy floor pad that offers more hands-on experiences where families can explore and interact with products.
The reinvention offers fun interactive experiences including larger than life toys and features streamlined shelving to improve sightlines for the guest.
Based on results of this small test we expect to rollout this layout to a number of additional stores this fall.
In Canada we're introducing a new format for the Flyer their version of our weekly circular with a radical new design based on feedback from our Canadian guests.
The new format features a clean design bolder price points and more products across all categories.
We will use a consistent format each week that separates needs from wants making it clear to our guests that we offer great deals on both.
Specifically we're adding an eight to 12 page wrap filled with frequency items so that the actual flyer has more room for discretionary categories like apparel and accessories kids seasonal and home; the categories Canadian guests most associate with Target.
And to further drive awareness and consideration of Target's frequency categories Target Canada launched an integrated essentials marketing campaign highlighting products such as laundry detergent diapers grocery multivitamins and more.
The check it off your list for less campaign which includes radio TV digital and the flyer launched on March 14th and is planned to run for 18 weeks.
While we've made considerable progress in the first quarter the entire leadership team is working to achieve faster growth in the U.S dramatically improve Canadian segment performance and accelerate Target's digital transformation.
To accomplish this goal we're going to leverage the fantastic assets we already have a world class brand a strong network of newly built or remodeled stores across the U.S.
and Canada strong partnerships with leading national brands combined with a set of powerful owned and exclusive brands which benefit from our design and sourcing capabilities and most importantly a motivated and talented team that's eager to win in the marketplace.
Beyond the changes to the Canada team yesterday we also announced changes to my team in the U.S which will better leverage functional expertise to speed up innovation drive newness and accelerate our digital transformation.
With these changes the team will be more agile better positioned to deliver increased traffic and sales in the U.S.
on our way to becoming a leading Omni-channel retailer.
These leadership changes are among several we've made to focus our priorities and remove roadblocks that might slow down our teams.
With these changes in place we believe we can move faster and a team has enthusiastically embraced the challenge.
Now I'll turn it back over to John who will share his insights on our first quarter financial performance and our second quarter and full year outlook.
John? Thanks Kathee.
As Kathee mentioned our first quarter results were markedly better than our fourth quarter performance specifically compared with the trends we were seeing late in the fourth quarter following the announcement of the data beach.
In the U.S.
segment our comparable sales decline of 0.3% was near the high end of our guidance and flat to down 2%.
Comparable traffic declined 2.3% dramatically better than our late fourth quarter trends but well below where we should perform over time.
Consistent with broader trends in the U.S.
market traffic traffic in our stores has been declining while transactions in our digital channels have been growing rapidly particularly in mobile.
However given the relative size of these two channels at Target today the mix effect of these opposing trends is driving a decline in overall transactions.
The key to reversing this decline is clear; accelerate our digital capabilities and leverage assets across both our physical and digital channels to lead guests to choose us more often than they are today.
The distinction between channels is increasingly unimportant because single transactions are already straddling both the physical and digital channels.
Ultimately we should be agnostic about which channels guests choose and enable them to interact with us where and when they want to; in our stores digitally or preferably both.
First quarter penetration on our REDcards was 20.4% up 3.3 percentage points from last year.
This is very healthy growth but a couple of percentage points below rates we were seeing prior to the data breach.
In the first quarter as research showed that most consumers are putting the breach behind them we ramped up REDcard offers to guests in our stores and by the end of the quarter we were making those offers with the same frequency as before the breach.
When we make an offer the application rate for our credit card has largely recovered to pre-breach levels but the rate for the debit card is responding less quickly.
As a result we expect slower U.S.
REDcard penetration growth in the second quarter up between 200 basis points and 300 basis points from last year.
Looking ahead as part of our broader effort to rebuild traffic and sales we work hard to reaccelerate REDcard growth particularly the debit product through our marketing and an enhanced focus on the role our store team members play in generating REDcard applications.
Our first quarter U.S.
segment EBITDA margin rate was 9.5% down nearly a percentage point from last year driven by a gross margin to current rate decline of more than one percentage point.
As Kathee mentioned we ramped up the intensity of our deals in the first quarter to get guests back into our stores and this decision was reflected both in better sales in traffic and a lower gross margin rate.
Our SG&amp;A rate improved about 30 basis points from last year reflecting outstanding discipline across the Company including the benefit of our expense optimization efforts as well as the timing of some expenses compared to last year.
In our Canadian segment first quarter sales were below expectations in February and March but were better than expected in April.
Our first quarter gross margin rate was 18.7% much better than the fourth quarter but still below our full year expectation as we worked to clear excess inventory on long lead time receipts.
Expense rates were much better than a year ago reflecting scale benefits and the comparison to last year's preopening costs.
First quarter REDcard penetration was 3.9% was nearly double last year's rate but still well below where we believe it will be over time.
Consistent with last quarter beyond operating results our first quarter GAAP earnings reflected several items that reduced EPS by approximately $0.04.
These items included data breach related costs net of an insurance receivable continued reduction and the beneficial interest asset and a charge related to our decision to move from Visa to MasterCard for our co-branded REDcard credit product.
Turning to consolidated metrics our first quarter interest expense of $170 million was down more than $450 million from a year ago as we annualized the first quarter 2013 charge for the early retirement of high coupon debt.
We returned $272 million in dividends this quarter up from $232 million last year as our $0.43 per share quarterly dividend was more than 19% higher than a year ago.
We plan to recommend that our Board authorize another similar increase this summer.
We did not repurchase any shares in the first quarter.
While we expect to generate cash well beyond our expected uses over the next several years our current metrics are beyond typical boundaries of our middle A cart rating.
As a result we do not expect to repurchase shares in the second quarter and may resume repurchases in the back half of the year at the earliest.
To resume this activity we need to see continued improvement in our U.S.
and Canadian operations moving our credit metrics back to acceptable levels relative to our single A rating.
In addition we believe it's prudent to hold off on any repurchases until we have more visibility into our potential liability for third party card networks fraud and administrative costs related to the data breach.
Based on what we know today we do not expect to have visibility into those claims until the third quarter or later.
I'll turn now to our outlook for both the second quarter and our updated expectations for the full year.
Given our current trends and challenges in both the U.S.
and Canada we believe it's appropriate to maintain a cautious outlook for sales in both segments.
This allows us to plan inventory and hours effectively while building contingency plans to allow us to flex higher as sales grow more rapidly than expected.
We've updated our full year expectations for profitability in both segments taking a more cautious view in light of the environment and the additional steps we're taking to grow U.S traffic and sales accelerate improvement in our Canadian operations and step up the development of our digital capabilities.
While we don't expect these additional efforts to change our 2014 capital expenditures in a meaningful we are planning for lower operating margins in both segments as we dedicate additional resources to make progress.
Specifically we expect to invest more in gross margin for newness product innovation and promotions in both the U.S.
and Canada to enhance our value proposition across both sides of the Expect More Pay Less brand promise and incur incremental expenses as we devote more resources to improve operations in Canada and speed up the development of digital and flexible fulfillment capabilities in the U.S.
Longer-term we believe these investments will be paid back in the form of faster profitable growth and increasing market share in both segments.
One note.
Consistent with guidance last quarter our outlook does not include potential additional costs related to the data breach beyond what we've already recognized as they're still not estimable.
As I mentioned we continue to believe we have the financial strength to move beyond these near-term impacts once they are known even as we continue to invest to grow in both of our segments.
So with that context let's turn first to our expectations for the second quarter.
In the U.S we expect a slower improvement in sales trends meaning second quarter comparable sales should be flat to slightly positive.
We expect U.S.
segment EBITDA margin rate will be below last year's 10.8% rate but we expect a smaller year-over-year decline than we experienced in the first quarter.
Both gross margin and SG&amp;A expenses will be pressured by our efforts to grow traffic and expand our digital capabilities but we also expect an offsetting benefit of both gross margin and SG&amp;A expense lines from our expense optimization efforts.
In Canada we expect sales measured in U.S.
dollars to be up about 75% from last year's second quarter and about 25% higher than the first quarter.
We will report Canadian segment comparable sales for the first time in the second quarter but this measure will be highly volatile in the near-term as we'll be measuring in our small set of stores.
Specifically we expect to report a single-digit decline in second quarter Canadian segment comparable sales as we'll be comparing against the very large grand opening surges we experienced a year ago combined with the impact of our market densification later in 2013 which redistributed sales from our initial openers.
We expect the Canadian segment gross margin rate will improve beyond 20% in the second quarter but will continue to reflect pressures from promotions and efforts to eliminate excess inventory.
Expense rates in this segment should show modest improvement from our first quarter rates but will remain elevated far beyond what they'll be in the long run.
Altogether second quarter Canadian segment EBITDA losses measured in U.S dollars are expected to be approximately flat to last year.
We expect second quarter consolidated interest expense to be approximately flat to last year and tax expenses to be somewhat lower.
Altogether our expectations would generate adjusted EPS reflecting results from both our U.S.
and Canadian operations of $0.85 to $1 excluding $0.02 related to the reduction in the beneficial interest asset and any potential cost related to the data breach.
For the full year we continue to expect U.S.
comparable sales in a range of flat to up 2% and we still expect an SG&amp;A expense rate of about 20%.
However we've taken our gross margin rate expectations down below 30% to make room to invest more in products and promotion.
In our Canadian segment in light of recent trends we've taken down our full-year sales expectations closer to US$2 billion and with that new view of sales we expect lower gross margin rate and higher expense rates than before.
Specifically we now expect our full-year Canadian segment EBITDA margin rate will be closer to minus 20% compared with our prior expectation closer to minus 10%.
Altogether these updated expectations will put our full-year adjusted EPS in a range of $3.60 to $3.90 $0.25 lower than the range we provided a quarter ago.
While these are our current expectations based on where we are today I don't want to create the impression that we're satisfied.
Recent management changes including yesterday's announcements demonstrate that we believe meaningful changes needed put us on a different long run trajectory.
In Canada we need much more urgency to improve our operations so our systems and supply team can enable the rapid growth in sales we'll be driving to achieve scale.
In the U.S.
even though we're seeing industry leading growth in the digital channels we need to grow even faster to catch up with others who have been on the journey for a much longer time.
And we need to become much more willing to deliver more newness and differentiation to our guests.
Given that we're already known for it we need to continually raise the bar on what newness means.
Providing our guests with a sense of inspiration and discovery that makes them want to visit us more often in whatever channel they choose.
With that we'll conclude today's prepared remarks.
Now Kathee and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
(Operator instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Two questions.
The first one I want to ask is sort of a governance related question so answer it as you can.
You talked about some of the Company's initiatives and your case strategic direction and areas where you felt perhaps the Company had fallen short.
Were any of these areas themes where perhaps Greg and the Board or Greg and the rest of the management team had a difference of opinion such that your focus on them today would be different from what the firm's focus on that had been under his leadership? Matt all I can tell you is what we're focused on going forward and we're focused -- Kathee and I and the whole leadership team have been talking to the team for the past couple of weeks about our focuses on driving the business forward and we have three key objectives; drive sales and traffic in the U.S accelerate our operational improvement in Canada and ultimately our business performance; and then third accelerate our transformation and get to be a leading Omni-channel retailer in the U.S.
and that's where we have the teams focused.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
and then my second question just a quick one on Canada if you could try to help us frame the magnitude of inventory sort of left in the pipeline that you need to clear maybe how much of a factor that was in the grosses is Q1 and whether that’s -- whether you're cleaned up at this stage? Matt as you know when sales get out of -- when sales aren't on expectation and inventories get a little heavy they get lumpy.
And so there's areas where we're a little bit heavier than we'd like.
There’s areas where we're a little bit lighter than we'd like and we're working to I'd say balance all of the inventories.
And a lot of it frankly will be dependent on do we meet our sales objectives? In the first quarter a little bit light but not materially so and if we continue to hit our sales objectives I think we'll see our inventories smooth out over the course of the year and be in a manageable position for the remainder of the year.
I don't know if there's anything you'd add Kathee? Yeah.
The thing that I would add Matt is we're working on making sure that our forecasts are accurate and then as we buy into them that we've got chase and cancel plans built in so that we're able to react in-season versus what we've done this past year without any history and having to react at the end of the season to clear more.
So we're still lumpy.
We still have products to clear.
We're getting our arms around that forecast and I think that will help us as we move through the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Drbul with Nomura.
Just two questions I guess first in terms of the search for our new CEO is there like a reasonable timeframe that you think it can be resolved? And then the second question is on the share repurchase you gave a lot of detail on it.
Is it -- in terms of the second half confidence level do you think that you will have better visibility? And what gives you that visibility around the cost of the breach in that third quarter? Just I'd like to better understand that situation.
Sure.
On the first question of the CEO search certainly that's under the Board's purview and I would tell you rather than focused on time they're focused on getting the right individual to lead the Company as I said to become an Omni-channel retailer.
So that's they're focus and the time we'll take as long as it's appropriate to get the right person.
On the second one on share repurchase and specifically related to the potential breach liabilities getting visibility to that in the second half of the year there is a process that is agreed to with the networks.
They get some information from their forensics investigator and then they go through a process to evaluate incremental fraud where we may have potential liability.
and then they come back to us after a period of time.
And as we've looked at that historically we've seen that that's taken several months and that's why we get to the third quarter.
We don't have frankly Bob a lot of visibly to that but as I said as we've looked at other incidents that's what we've seen in the past for timing of when some of those potential liabilities may become more clear.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
I had a couple of questions.
John and Kathee it sounds like growing that digital is a key focus right now and driving that faster.
Could you help us understand where we start from like what percentage of your sales or maybe some of the cross shopping between REDcard members and how much they shop online or maybe how those people season after they've had a REDcard a few years.
Anything you have on that I think will be helpful.
Sure.
I'll talk maybe a little bit about where we are today and Kathee can talk about what we're doing to drive growth there.
The sales in our business somewhere between 2% and 3%.
Digital channel originated probably in the 2.5% range right now.
REDcards given the free shipping online we have a lot of our REDcards guests shopping online and I think we've talked in the past Greg we have a very high penetration of online orders that we free ship because of that REDcard.
We think it's absolutely the right incentive or part of that loyalty package for REDcard but it drives a very high penetration.
Kathee can talk about where we're going.
Yeah.
In terms of growth Greg mobile is where we're really focused and about two-thirds of our traffic right now comes from mobile.
So we're really pleased with the results that we've seen there not only in traffic but also conversion.
We did improve conversion both in the site and on mobile and in total and you know that mobile conversion is lower than site conversion.
So that headwind from the mix is there but we still improved overall conversion.
So we're happy with that.
There's also a lot of new things that we're doing.
Certainly there's product introductions I talked about the furniture a few minutes ago.
There's always new stuff that we're adding on the site.
We're expanding.
We've got almost all store product online now set up online lots to be sold online.
But now we're adding out in other areas where we should have a much larger section and we think online is the place to do that; things like apparel beauty.
In addition to that there's a lot of services that we are adding that are doing really well.
We've talked about buy online pick-up in store.
Subscriptions has been really successful for us.
We started last fall with about 150 SKUs and in those items our online sales were about 15% in subscriptions so with no marketing and just beta on the site.
So we've now got about 1 500 items and by June we'll have 5 000 items that will be available for subscriptions.
And when guests purchase those items they'll be able to get 5% discounts for signing up for subscriptions.
So a lot of product and a lot of services that go with that to drive our growth.
That’s great.
And if I could follow up on the guidance it sounds like it's really margin investment in Canada that has taken the guidance down if I've summarized that right.
You left the comp the same in the U.S.
If we get back to that zero to plus 2 do you expect traffic to be positive at all as part of that guidance or do you think it could still be negative through the year? Yeah I think if you mean for an annual number getting to an annual positive traffic number very difficult.
We're working hard on increasing traffic for each of the quarters and I think our benchmark is are we seeing continued improvement in traffic as we go sequentially.
But for the full year even if we just pick a number ran 1 comp I don't think we'll see positive traffic for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Nemer with Wells Fargo.
I'm just wondering on the digital transformation that you talked about.
Is there a target level of investment from both the P&amp;L and a CapEx standpoint? I don't think there is a target level of investment.
I think first from a CapEx standpoint our approach has been we're going to invest in all the investments the business needs to grow profitably and generate appropriate returns.
The length of time over which those returns occur we have a very long lead time as we think about capital investment.
Stores have a very long return cycle.
So we're used to making investments that payback over a long period of time.
From an expense standpoint I think there probably the biggest investment and where you'll see us accelerate is in speed and doing more testing and learning.
And that's not just digital but also in our store just getting more activities out into the business that we're testing we're modifying and adjusting and improving on and if it doesn't work pull it back and retreat from that and learn from the testing.
I think the best example of that is Cartwheel.
We put that out in beta.
We knew there were things about the app that we didn't particularly like.
Our guests let us know what they didn't like about the app.
The team iterated and iterated and one year later and really not with much marketing until more recently we have 7 million users and the app has evolved as our guests have provided us feedback.
And as Kathee talked about a lot of the merchandising initiatives in baby and in apparel and in toys and in electronics that's the same approach we've taken.
Get it out in the stores modify it test it somewhere else and modify and then we'll move to scale.
So those are the investments we'll see in expensive.
And I don't think that is limited by some false number of expense dollars we have to allocate toward it.
It will be driven by the appropriateness of what we're testing.
Yeah the thing that I would add to that Matt the reason for getting more out historically we've tended to work on our newness until we felt we got to almost complete level and then we would put into pilot.
The point now and John’s point about Cartwheel and some of the in-store things that we're doing we want to get it in front of our guests very quickly get their reaction to it so that we're fine-tuning it much more quickly and then able to move out -- to rollout at a much faster pace with the product and a service that we know our guests will love.
Okay great.
And secondly can you talk to the early cycle stores versus the later cycle stores in Canada? Anything you can share on the difference between the financial metrics in the various cohorts? Thanks.
Yeah as we said we continue to see improvement across the business into April as the guest data improved and our sales performance improved and the early cycle stores continue to be the best.
And it's again almost in order down the sheet one cycle two cycle three cycle four cycle five.
So the earliest stores the longer they've been open they performed the better but the good thing is all cycles are on an upward path.
We're not where we need to be and we're not where we need to be versus our expectations but it's good to start to see some progress.
And I think the key to each of those cycles and improving them is getting this history under our belt and now we can forecast more accurately as we move forward.
And as John said we're very committed to accelerating our performance in Canada and we think that it will continue to go by cycle as it has this past year.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Two questions first on online and I guess specifically Amazon it seems to continue to infringe on Target's everyday business and increasingly the consumable category.
So I guess the question is two-fold.
Do you feel like that you're making good progress here on slowing the bleed of sales? And then secondly have you seen any impact from the recent changes in your trends in markets where Amazon is now being forced to collect some sales tax online? I'll take the second one and then Kathee can answer the first.
I think on sales tax we definitely see an impact when Amazon collects sales tax and particular in states that have much higher sales taxes to begin with where essentially the price differential is much more meaningful.
And so we've definitely seen that impact as we've watched them collect sales taxes across the country.
And Kathee can talk about the rest.
Yeah.
In terms of our online business the part that I'm very encouraged about is that as comScore reports when we look at traffic on our site versus the top seven retailers we led by far.
And obviously Amazon has a lot of traffic but it was flat in the quarter and ours was up considerably.
So I'm pleased with the changes that we're making to this site with the user experience.
And the added product that we're adding is driving that guest behavior and that we're seeing the traffic.
Clearly Amazon is doing very well and they have in the consumables category a lot of business.
We are now ramping that up starting with some more style-related consumable business.
If you think beauty for example you'll see us pushing forward their faster versus grocery which we're doing dry grocery now but we're not working on refrigerated and frozen at this point.
Then I guess the second question on the logistics side of the organization it sounds like you're having good success with the ship from store test and then buy online and pick-up in store at 10% of the sales seems to be going relatively well.
Can you talk about any of the longer term P&amp;L benefits from these initiatives both maybe from a topline and a margin perspective? At this point I don't think we're ready to commit to what that will do from a financial perspective.
Our main focus right now is what will most resonate with our guests getting pilots out in beta so that we can learn and experience from them.
Ultimately we have to work to be profitable on all of those but our main goal right now is sales driven and understanding guest's behavior so that we can then tailor the assortment to suit them and be profitable at it.
I will tell you I've been really pleased with some of these new initiatives and how rapidly our guest is responding to them.
Store pick-up is the biggest because it's now rolled out; ship from store which was really a Minneapolis team member test so far we're going to be expanding that in June and make that guest facing having that $10 rush delivery in Boston Minneapolis and Miami.
And based on our team member response and the feedback that they gave us I think that this will also resonate with our guess so I'm really excited to see where that goes.
Then later in the year we're going to be adding standard shipping from 135 stores in about 38 markets and that will allow faster delivery not the express that I just talked about but one to two-day delivery and as well as provide access to the store assortment that you can't get right now on Target.com.
So lots of good things happening; not yet ready to say what it means in terms of our sales or our profit.
I think Kathee is exactly right.
Not ready to give a lot of guidance on sales profit and how it will all work out but I would tell you broadly regardless of where the profit margin rates end up pushing incremental sales across our existing assets will be a very good thing for return on invested capital and we're very excited about that.
With that I think we have time for one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
A couple of quick things.
I guess I was curious as to Kathee the change in the organization structure under you in merchandising and like I guess what really prompted this now versus six months ago or next month or waiting for and -- a formal hire of a CEO in place.
I think the point is that we want to accelerate newness and innovation in this interim period here.
We've talked about interim doesn't mean idle.
We are approaching our business with as much passion and focus on improving results as we always have.
And in terms of this structure I think as John mentioned focusing on our top three priorities and having this merchant team really focus on the U.S.
improving U.S.
performance and leveraging deep functional expertise to be able to speed up that innovation and newness.
So for example putting all of our style business together both merchandising and design all under Trish Adams having our essentials and hard lines business all under Jose Barra having inventory and all operations under Keri Jones and then our Omni-channel efforts all under Casey Carl are really important to be able to leverage that expertise and move very quickly in improving our results.
Got it.
Thanks.
That makes a lot of sense.
If I could follow-up on that was this something that Greg was reluctant to doing and does that have anything to do with the timing? I'll just tell you that the Board has been very supportive on these changes.
We've talked at length about getting the right people in the right chair to be able to drive our performance and we're really pleased with this structure and the people that we have leading these teams.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then just the one last thing I wanted to ask and I apologize if I missed it in the discussion today but as far as the price investments go are they more in the consumables side the discretionary side? Where are the areas you think you need to make an investment? As we've been focusing on irresistible deals for our guests we've invested in both sides.
I gave you the example of the Coke ad that we ran and I think it was in March.
But we've also done broad categories on the wants side like the ultimate spring break sale or our baby sales.
We're looking at really needs and wants and how do we invest in both sides to be able to delight our guests and we've had great success in both categories.
Thanks.
That concludes our first quarter 2014 conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday August 20 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Senior Director Investor Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Communications</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us on our 2014 second quarter earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan Chief Financial Officer; and Kathee Tesija Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer.
This morning Brian will provide his initial impressions on joining Target and his priorities going forward then Kathee will discuss results in the U.S and Canada and plans for the third quarter and beyond and finally John will provide more detail on our financial performance along with our financial outlook for the third quarter and the full year.
Following their remarks we will open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we are joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John and I will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP EPS is included in this morning’s press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
With that I will turn it over to Brian for his initial impressions of Target and his priorities going forward.
Brian? Thank you John.
Before Kathee and John provide their perspective on Target’s second quarter performance I want to take a few minutes and discuss why I made the decision to come to Target and outline my priorities over the next few months.
Even before I accepted the offer to lead this company I have known and admired Target for multiple perspectives throughout my career.
As a vendor partner I have known Target as a smart savvy innovative ethical and guest focused merchandiser.
As a competitor I have known Target as a disciplined tough focused retailer.
A company that redefined the discount space by delivering outstanding design world-class fashion innovative products at amazing prices.
As a guest my family and I have known Target as unique place that makes shopping fun saves us time and offers a differentiated experience based on newness and discovery.
And finally as a member of the community I have known and admired Target for its commitment to making the places where we live and work better both through its corporate giving programs and the commitment the voluntarism from our team members.
With my appointment as Chairman and CEO I now have the opportunity to learn about Target from the inside and I could not be more thrilled to have the opportunity to lead this great company.
In the weeks and months ahead I am planning to spend a great deal of my time listening to the team here in the U.S.
and Canada in both our stores and headquarter locations hearing directly from them about what’s working and importantly what we need to change.
In fact I just got back from a visit to Canada where I spent time with the team to get a firsthand update on their review of strategy and operations.
While that review is not yet complete based on what they have learned already the Canadian team is making broad changes as they focused on improving performance in time for the key holiday season.
In the U.S.
I have been spending time with John Kathee and others on the leadership team to understand in detail our plans for the remainder of the year.
In those discussions I am ensuring that this team is focused on execution across every aspect of our business particularly in the holiday season.
In addition I am deepening my understanding of Target’s pipeline of omni-channel innovation and I am focused on our opportunities going forward.
While I am very impressed with the progress the team has made recently including innovations on our mobile platform subscription service Cartwheel and flexible fulfillment we need to continue to move faster and grow faster than the marketplace.
We need to build capabilities focused on satisfying the wants and the needs of our guest and ensuring that our digital and store operations operate seamlessly to provide a single superior experience.
Finally I am working with the leadership team to begin detailed planning of next year’s strategy and financial results.
I am impressed with the progress that John and the team made in the last three months including a strategy review that is the most comprehensive effort I have seen in my career.
Their foundational work is providing me with a fresh fact-based perspective on Target’s strengths and opportunities serving as the foundation for next year’s plan and beyond.
Now before I turn the call over to Kathee I want to thank Roxanne Austin and John for their commitment to Target and to the team which they demonstrated through their willingness to serve as Interim Chair and CEO over the last three months.
In addition to the critical strategy work they initiated Roxanne John and the leadership team moved forward confidently to make important changes to internal processes removing roadblocks empowering teams and accelerating the pace of decision-making.
While there is a lot of work ahead I have been blown away by the passion and commitment displayed by team members across the country.
This team is focused on winning in the marketplace by better serving our guests in both stores and digital channels.
I look forward to working with this team to harness their passion and develop the appropriate strategies that position Target for success both today and over time.
Now I will turn the call over to Kathee and John for review of the quarter and our outlook for the rest of the year.
Starting with Kathee who will provide detailed plan on our category performance merchandising plans for the third quarter and beyond.
Kathee? Thanks Brian.
The second quarter marked a period of transition in both of our segments as the U.S.
traffic trend improved over recent quarters and our monthly U.S.
comps increased throughout the quarter.
In Canada Mark Schindele and the leadership team have been engaged in a comprehensive review of strategy and operations and are beginning to make changes to address their initial findings.
In our U.S.
business second quarter comparable sales were strongest in hard lines driven by both toys and electronics.
Comparable sales were also positive in our less discretionary food health and beauty categories while they were down slightly in apparel and down low single-digit in home.
In our digital channels second quarter sales including flexible fulfillment grew most quickly in health and beauty hard lines and home.
U.S.
segment comparable transactions were down 1.3% completely offset by an increase in the average basket.
While we are satisfied with the traffic decline we are pleased that the U.S.
traffic trend improved a full percentage point compared with the first quarter.
Our U.S.
segment first quarter gross margin rate was down a full percentage point from last year driven by higher promotional intensity compared with the year ago.
While the impact of promotions was a bit less than we experienced in the first quarter it was more than we expected at the beginning of the quarter reflecting a retail environment in which a broad set of competitors are leaning heavily on promotions and a consumer environment in which shoppers are still cautious and focused on deals.
However while it’s still early we have been pleased with the results so far in the back-to-school and back-to-college season in which we have seen improved sales trends from guests focused on the occasion rather than promotions.
Second quarter digital sales including flexible fulfillment increased more than 30% over last year.
This increase reflects a nearly 50% increase in visits to our mobile website including iOS and Android apps which more than offset a decline in visits to our conventional site.
Importantly conversion continues to improve rapidly on both our conventional site and mobile platforms driving a meaningful improvement in overall conversion despite the unfavorable mix shift between the migration to mobile.
To build on our momentum in digital we have recently launched a new ad campaign focused on millennials that aims to expand the brand perception of Target from a brick-and-mortar destination to a total retailer experience.
The campaign features three of our most prominent omni-channel initiatives subscriptions store pickup and Cartwheel.
Market research indicates that these three solutions are among the most important to guests because they help them save time save money and stay organized.
This year’s back-to-college assortment includes a set of unique own brand items that our own product design and development team developed in partnership with college students based on the challenges they faced when living with roommates in very small spaces.
And since we are already planning for back-to-college 2015 we have recently partnered with Betterific an open crowd sourcing community focused on innovation to help us think of other innovative products that could make life in a first apartment or dorm room even better.
The community proposed hundreds of ideas.
Then together Target and the community built on each other’s ideas and voted on the best ones.
Now our team is using the ideas to identify unmet guest needs determine if there are products that we can bring to market for back-to-college next year and uncover completely new industry-first products.
Betterific is part of Target’s larger guest-to-guest initiative that is working to connect guests to each other and to Target in meaningful ways.
Our first TargetExpress store opened in late July here in the Twin Cities right next to the University of Minnesota campus.
This store looks great and we are excited about the insights we will gain from operating this new format over time.
At approximately 20 000 square feet 15% of a typical general merchandise store TargetExpress is designed so guests can get what they need and get out quickly.
So far sales at the store have come in as expected and not surprisingly we are seeing much more traffic and a much smaller basket than our chain wide average.
Also as expected sales have been heavy in food and essentials with the mix of own brand sales in those categories far outpacing the chain average.
We are also seeing strong sales in mobile electronics including accessories and in our fan central area where we feature University of Minnesota clothing.
We plan to expand our test of this new format to several additional locations outside the Twin Cities next year.
Cartwheel just celebrated its first birthday and we celebrated with the crowd sourced Cartwheel offer a first for Target for a special limited time discount.
The winning offer generated a high level of engagement during the promotion period more than doubling the typical rate of new users and activations.
Also in July we launched a proof-of-concept to integrate Target.com into Cartwheel with the goal of making it simple for guests to shop with Cartwheel across channels.
In this test guests can see online eligible offers in their Cartwheel app and are directed to the Target.com mobile website to add them to their Target.com cart.
After testing these initial deals we will expand the number of offers and we will begin promoting the functionality when the testing period is complete.
In June we meaningfully simplified the Target.com shopping experience by rolling out free shipping on all orders over $50.
We made this change because the research shows that the number one cause of abandoned carts is a surprise at checkout including uncertain shipping charges.
Since we made this change we have already seen measurable improvements in digital conversion rates and sales.
Of course I should mention that Target card guests continue to receive free shipping on every order everyday.
In late July for the first time we ran a promotion on our store pickup program with the goal of raising awareness of the service while testing systems and processes before the fourth quarter peak.
The guest response to the offer was far ahead of our expectations at five times the volume of a regular week with a particularly strong response in mobile.
The offer attracted many guests to use store pickup for the first time and some are even new to Target.com.
Importantly about one-fifth of those guests engaged in additional shopping in-store when they picked up their online purchases.
We are pleased with continued strong growth in the number of guests spending up for Target subscriptions.
Among the nearly 4 000 eligible items subscription orders account for more than 15% of digital sales.
In the back half of 2014 we are focused on enhancing the guest experience including continued assortment expansion consolidating shipments simplifying communication and rightsizing packaging.
We are also developing an optimized mobile experience and moving to test in-store acquisition via mobile devices and we are exploring gifting subscriptions which would allow guests to register for subscriptions that are easy for gift givers to fulfill.
We are pleased with results from our second quarter test of ship from store capability in the Boston Miami and Minneapolis markets.
As part of the test some guests were offered the option of a $10 service to get same day delivery on Target.com orders placed before 1:30 PM.
In the three test markets the ability to leverage our stores crossover inventory has allowed us to capture more sales by meaningfully improving digital in-stocks.
In addition shipping from a store dramatically reduces shipping times without the need to rely on air freight.
This fall when we rollout standard ship from store capabilities to 35 additional markets we will be within 1 to 2-day ground transit of 91% of the U.S.
population.
In Canada second quarter sales accelerated meaningfully from the first quarter but fell somewhat short of our expectations.
Gross margin was also lower than expected driven by elevated markdowns resulting from continued operational issues.
As I mentioned earlier the Target Canada team is engaged in a comprehensive review of strategy and operations which incorporates feedback from guests teams and business partners and the team is taking decisive steps to address our guest concerns head-on including changes to address in-stocks pricing and assortment.
To address in-stocks the team is taking action on four dimensions better reporting to identify in-stock issues sooner retraining our teams on best methods developing new best methods tailored to Canadian segment systems and reconfiguring systems to work more effectively over the long run.
On pricing while both our own studies and external surveys show that we are already priced very competitively the team has made decisive changes to ensure we respond even more quickly to pricing dynamics in the Canadian marketplace including comparison shopping our prices versus competitors on more items more frequently implementing enhanced tracking of competitor promotions to ensure we react quickly and implementing a price match policy which includes online and local competition with a more flexible process for guests.
Regarding the Canadian assortment we are adding product lines that our guests told us were missing from our everyday lineup.
We are adding more newness to our stores and we are adding more exclusive items and designer partnerships what we are known for in both the U.S.
and Canada.
Putting all these changes together means that of the 70 000 items in a typical Canadian Target store about 30 000 items will be new between now and the holiday season.
We believe these changes will position the Canadian segment for improved performance in time for this holiday season and the Canada leadership team will look for additional opportunities as they continue their review.
As we look ahead to the third quarter and beyond we are excited about our plans to introduce new products partnerships and capabilities in our stores and digital channels.
We have been very pleased with early results from the back-to-school season including the response to buy one give one offers on our own up and up supplies along with our exclusive line of colorful notebooks pens and rulers from UB.
Like our back-to-college assortment many up and up back-to-college products were developed by our own design team in partnership with students and teachers who tested them and gave us report cards on how they could be improved.
The guest response to the up and up school assortment has been phenomenal.
Last year comp sales in up and up school supplies were up more than 25% during the back-to-school season and we are planning another healthy increase this year.
Our back-to-college assortment highlights mix and match options for guys and gals to outfit their entire dorm in a stylish and affordable way.
Some of our guest favorites are space saving multiuse items like a storage mirror a task lamp with iPhone and iPad storage multifunctional and collapsible tables and desks and innovative storage solutions designed to go over the bed or chair to hold laptops and mobile phones.
This year’s addition of registry capability for college students has been outpacing expectations.
On average a student registers for 30 items totaling more than $1 000.
We are excited about our upcoming designer partnership Altuzarra for Target which will arrive on September 14.
Designer and creative director Joseph Altuzarra created a limited edition fall collection of women’s ready-to-wear lingerie accessories and shoes which will be available at most Target stores in the U.S.
and Canada as well as Target.com.
In addition an edited assortment of the collection will be available globally at Net-A-Porter.com.
In May 2013 Target entered into a partnership with Sam &amp; Libby and it’s been a huge hit with our guests who love classic styles like the original leather boat ballet at an unexpected value of $30.
In September we will be extending our Sam &amp; Libby assortment with the launch of the exclusive Sam &amp; Libby handbag line in over 1 000 stores throughout the U.S.
with two fall collections featuring 20 styles in stores as an extended assortment on Target.com.
In women’s apparel the fall assortment will reflect the number one current trend we call neo-traditional with feminine menswear inspired looks in plaids and florals.
This look will be most visible in Merona with hints in of our Xhilaration and Mossimo Supply Company lines.
After rapid growth in 2013 we are expecting another big increase this fall in women’s boots including riding boots from Merona and lace-up ankle boots from Mossimo Supply Company.
Another hot trend is sport and this fall we will be riding the leisure trend in our juniors’ assortment with leggings sweatshirts yoga pants joggers and fashion athletic shoes.
In denim a huge category for back-to-college we just launched a new improved shopping experience for our guests with improved navigation new fits a broader range of sizes more stretch and the most relevant washes and styling all highlighted through compelling promotions.
In threshold the fall season is all about natural materials beautiful textures and warm metallics.
With key solutions in entertaining like our warm metallic bar cart accessories glassware and flatware and decorative items like lanterns throws toss pillows and perfect accent tables.
In July Target launched S Sport designed by Skechers partnering with one of the hottest footwear brands in the industry today.
The S Sport label is a lifestyle brand targeted to appeal to the entire family with offerings in kids men’s and women’s.
The initial response has been overwhelming and we have seen styles performing at 4 to 8 times the average of our shoe category.
S Sport shoes for men women and children are available at all U.S.
and Canadian stores and at Target.com ranging in price from $25 to $40.
In housewares in September we will be featuring new products from some of the hottest national brands and small appliances with the introduction of the VertuoLine from Nespresso single-serve blenders from Vitamix and the new Keurig 2.0 line.
In June Target teamed up with the Honest Company to offer guests non-toxic eco-friendly products by co-designers Jessica Alba and Christopher Gavigan featuring diapers biodegradable wipes organic bath and skincare and an expanded assortment on Target.com.
Based on the success of the collaboration we recently expanded our Honest Company assortment to include a line of all-natural cleaning supplies.
Like Honest Company our Made to Matter collection was inspired by our guest desire for better for you natural and organic products.
This unique collection differentiates Target in the marketplace and provides vendor partners a stage to innovate in support of their leadership positions in respective categories.
The collection launched in April with an initial set of items and the guest response has been outstanding.
So we are excited about the upcoming launch in September of an expanded assortment of more than 100 Made to Matter products including exclusive new to market items from Method Seventh Generation and many others.
At CHEFS Catalog which just celebrated its 35th anniversary we are excited about our upcoming October collaboration with CHEFS and longtime host of Bizarre Foods Andrew Zimmern.
The partnership includes several products which melds the design elements of Japanese Chinese and French cutlery into items Andrew describes as one knife fits all pieces of kitchen magic.
The collaboration also features spice blends with names like Flex Your Mex Winner Winner Chicken Dinner or Grill Buddy.
For Halloween we are excited to be partnering once again with designer Chris March to offer a whimsical wig and accessory collection.
This unique assortment reinforces both sides of our Expect More Pay Less brand promise with wigs that look like curlers or lobsters and the core items from candy bowls to hand towels all priced at $20 or less.
The collection available exclusively at Target stores in the U.S.
and Canada and at Target.com will launch mid-September online and later that month in our stores.
In Canada we just announced that we have extended our very successful beaver canoe collaboration with an expansion of home decor items along with men’s and women’s sleepwear and slippers.
Also in Canada on September 7 we will be launching two new lines of cleaning products Better Life an all-natural line of cleaning products designed by two fathers with charismatic packaging designed to speak to younger generations and Ecover a European brand recently merged with Method which will re-launch with better formulations and modernized packaging.
Increasingly consumers expect everything they do to be personalized and this is particularly true of millennials Target’s fastest growing guest segment.
For the last six months Target.com has been building an engine that will enable personalization across all of Target’s selling channels.
Personalized product recommendations the first iteration of this work will launch this fall at Target.com.
When a guest shops our site we will suggest products based on their store and digital purchase and browse history.
This presents a significant opportunity to ensure guests see the products and offers most relevant to them both in-store and online and in turn generate additional sales.
We will continue improving the guest experience and we are working to extend the personalization to more guest experiences including product content and offers in the future.
We also continue to add mobile enhancements to drive additional traffic and conversion.
Just today we launched a new header to enhance navigation and the mobile landing page and we are streamlining mobile checkout to two clicks.
Also this year we are overhauling our registry service with the new best-in-class experience that combines the power of online and mobile shopping together with in-store tools like new web-enabled smart scanners and iPad kiosks.
Registry is already important for Target and the new experience puts us at the forefront of the industry by making the entire process easier smarter and faster.
Improvements include faster scanning and adding of products easy addition of companion products full product information access to reviews and inspiration through collections and lists.
And in our stores we are pleased with results from our efforts to refresh the shopping experience in key categories including baby apparel and beauty.
In July we added another 167 stores with the enhanced baby layout bringing the total number to more than 200.
In apparel we have about 50 stores today with an enhanced presentation including manikins and we are planning to expand this layout to another 600 stores by October.
And in beauty we continue to see strong results from this year’s refresh of displays throughout the U.S.
while featuring beauty concierge service in more than 400 stores.
We are excited with our plans for the fall and believe we are taking the right steps to improve results in both the U.S.
and Canada and we are encouraged that based on the changes we are making we have seen positive comps over the last six weeks in the U.S.
We are working hard to ensure that teams in both countries are focused on execution during the upcoming holiday season and we look forward to working with Brian to map our vision for Target’s future.
Now I will turn it over to John who will share his insights on the second quarter financial performance and our third quarter and full year outlook.
John? Thanks Kathee.
As I mentioned in today’s press release we are not satisfied with our second quarter results but we are seeing early signs of progress.
In the U.S.
our second quarter traffic was notably better than the first quarter pace enough to improve the traffic trends on a two-year basis.
However the level of second quarter promotions in the U.S.
remained elevated.
And looking ahead we are working to moderate our promotional intensity to a level we believe is more appropriate in the long run.
We are encouraged with the recently improved U.S.
comparable sales trend.
In particular because our promotional intensity over this period was not as elevated as earlier in the year.
In Canada the team has been working hard to assess root causes for underperformance and implement changes to improve operations and the product assortment with the focus on improving results in time for the holiday season.
However we want to be clear that current financial performance in Canada remains unacceptable.
Our second quarter comp in the U.S.
segment was flat largely in line with our guidance.
As Kathee mentioned digital sales including flexible fulfillment grew more than 30% compared with last year contributing about 60 basis points to comparable sales.
While this demonstrates meaningful progress on our omni-channel journey we will continue to invest in digital capabilities as the importance of this channel continues to grow.
Our second quarter U.S.
segment EBITDA margin was lower than expected about 80 basis points below last year driven by a lower than expected gross margin rate partially offset by better than expected SG&amp;A expenses.
Specifically the U.S.
segment gross margin rate was down about 100 basis points from last year somewhat better than our first quarter experience but not where we expect to perform over the longer term.
The U.S.
segment’s second quarter SG&amp;A rate improved about 20 basis points versus last year reflecting impressive discipline across the organization combined with the benefit of our expense optimization efforts.
In the U.S.
second quarter sales penetration on REDcards was 28.8% up more than two percentage points over last year.
As I mentioned on the last call we have seen a slower trend in debit card applications since the data breach which is leading to slower growth in sales penetration.
We have taken steps to reaccelerate growth in REDcard applications including increased activity in our stores and we have begun to see improvement in REDcard issuance as a result particularly in the last few weeks.
However given there is a lagged impact of applications on penetration we expect penetration growth will continue to moderate in the third and fourth quarter reflecting the slowdown in new REDcard accounts we have seen so far this year.
Specifically our current expectation is that U.S.
REDcard penetration growth will be in the range of flat to up 1% in the third quarter and will reach a trough at around flat in the fourth quarter before reaccelerating into next year.
In the Canadian segment second quarter sales were 63% higher than last year and about 14% above for the first quarter.
For the first time we began reporting comparable sales in Canada this quarter as 48 stores became mature at various points within the quarter.
However this metric is expected to be very noisy initially due to the strong and longer than normal grand opening sales surges we saw last year and the fact that we densified around these initial openers later in 2013.
As a result this quarter the Canadian comp was down more than 11% reflecting these impacts and less than adequate progress in our efforts to grow sales in these stores.
On our Canadian sales we are under gross margin rate of just over 18% in the second quarter well below where we should operate in the long run.
Both sales and gross margin rate continued to reflect operations that are not working optimally resulting in lumpy inventory.
We continue to see inconsistent in-stock levels by item and location and we have excess inventory overall leading to elevated levels of clearance markdowns.
This is why the Canadian leadership team has put its highest priority on implementing system and process changes designed to improve operations with the goal of improving performance in time for the holiday season.
And as Kathee outlined the team is already making a host of changes based on findings from our operational review.
Second quarter Canadian segment expense rates were better than last year reflecting the startup nature of results a year ago.
However these rates will remain elevated until we gain more scale in this segment.
REDcard penetration in Canada was 4.8% in the second quarter more than double last year’s 2.3% as Canadian guests continue to respond to the value these cards provide.
We expect to continue to see robust growth in penetration for quite sometime.
Beyond the operating results in the U.S.
and Canada our second quarter GAAP EPS reflected the impact of several items not included in adjusted EPS.
The largest adjustment was a $0.27 per share charge for the accounting loss associated with our second quarter early debt retirement.
We funded this retirement along with a $1 billion maturity with the issuance of $2 billion of debt at very favorable rates in the quarter.
Not reflected in this accounting loss is the fact that the early debt retirement has a positive net present value.
Also in the quarter we recognized data breach expenses of $148 million partially offset by the recognition of a $38 million insurance receivable.
In addition to legal consulting and administrative fees second quarter breach expenses included an additional accrual for estimated probable losses for what we believe to be the vast majority of actual and potential breach-related claims including claims by payment card networks for fraud and administrative costs.
This means that in total over the last few quarters we have recognized an accumulated $236 million of gross expenses related to the breach offset by a $90 million insurance receivable for a net of $146 million.
This number is dramatically lower than many external estimates at the time of the breach and it reflects the benefits of our efforts to rapidly notify both card networks and our guests when we learned of the breach enhancing the effectiveness of fraud prevention and detection.
Looking ahead we will continue to incur legal consulting and administrative costs related to the breach but we don’t expect those costs to be material in any period.
And of course it will take more time to resolve all breach-related claims.
And while we don’t believe it is probable it is possible that we could incur material losses beyond the amounts we have already accrued.
Beyond these two larger adjustments in the second quarter we also recognized $0.01 each related to the impairment of some undeveloped land and the continued reduction in the beneficial interest asset associated with last year’s credit card portfolio sales.
Turning to the consolidated metrics second quarter interest expense was $282 million higher than last year due entirely to the loss on early debt retirement I covered earlier.
We also paid $272 million in dividends this quarter up 18% from $231 million last year.
As expected the Board approved a quarterly dividend increase during the quarter raising a 21% from $0.43 to $0.52.
This increase builds on our company’s track record of annual dividend increases which have occurred every year since 1971.
Beyond the non-cash share settlement forward contracts related to our deferred compensation plans we did not engage in any share repurchase in the second quarter and we don’t expect to do so in the third quarter as well.
While we continue to expect to return robust amounts of cash to share repurchase over time our business performance is not where it needs to be to sustain our middle A credit ratings.
As I have said previously to resume share repurchase two things need to happen.
First we need to have sufficient visibility into our potential liability for claims related to the data breach and second we need to see sufficient improvement in our U.S.
and Canadian operations to create a clear path for our credit metrics to return to acceptable levels in support of our single A rating.
While this quarter’s recognition of an additional breach related accrual reflects progress on the first condition our current and expected operating performance does not meet the second.
As a result we expect to continue to suspend cash investments in share purchase until operating performance improves.
Now let’s turn to our outlook for the third quarter and full year.
As I mentioned last quarter in light of the environment and our performance so far this year we will continue to maintain a cautious outlook for sales in both segments allowing us to plan inventory and expenses flexibly while maintaining contingency plans to flex higher when sales grow faster than expected.
One note consistent with guidance last quarter our outlook does not include potential additional costs related to the data breach beyond what we have already recognized as they are not estimable.
With that let’s turn to our third quarter expectations.
We are currently forecasting U.S.
comparable sales will be flat to up 1% this quarter.
And as Kathee mentioned we are encouraged by the positive comps we have seen so far in August.
On our sales we expect to see an EBITDA margin rate of 8% or a bit better.
This rate reflects continued expected pressure on the gross margin line but we expect about half the pressure we experienced in the second quarter.
Consistent with earlier in the year our third quarter EBITDA performance will benefit from our ongoing expense optimization efforts.
In Canada we expect sales growth of more than 50% above last year and more than 10% from the second quarter.
This growth would lead to an expected positive single-digit comparable sales growth rate.
EBITDA and EBIT margin rates are expected to improve compared with last year and be in line with or slightly better than the rates we saw in the second quarter.
Altogether these expectations would improve third quarter Canadian segment EBITDA by approximately $25 million compared with last year.
We expect third quarter consolidated interest expense to be approximately flat for last year and tax expense to be somewhat lower.
Altogether these expectations would generate adjusted EPS reflecting results from both our U.S.
and Canadian operations of $0.40 to $0.50 excluding $0.02 related to the reduction in the beneficial interest asset and any potential cost related to the data breach which are not expected to be material.
For the full year we now expect U.S.
comparable sales in the range of flat to up 1%.
In the U.S.
we continue to expect an SG&amp;A expense rate of about 20% for the full year and a gross margin rate between 29% and 30%.
These expectations reflect year-to-date results along with anticipated year-over-year favorability in fourth quarter gross margin and SG&amp;A expense rates as we annualized the impacts of the data breach in fourth quarter 2013.
In our Canadian segment we continue to expect full year sales of about $2 billion.
However given our recent experience and moderated expectations for gross margin in the near-term we now expect an EBITDA margin rate near minus 25% for the full year.
Altogether these updated expectations would put our full year adjusted EPS in the range of $3.10 to $3.30 below the range we provided a quarter ago.
These expected results are clearly not where we expect to perform over time.
Over the last 90 days Kathee and I have worked with a leadership team to take visible steps to continue healing our U.S.
business by removing unnecessary bureaucracy to speed up decision-making devoting resources to drive increased newness and innovation in our merchandise assortments and store presentation and investing in our digital transformation.
While there is a lot more work to do I am encouraged with our quarter-over-quarter improvement in U.S.
traffic and our sales experience so far in July and August particularly because this improvement has not been driven by intense promotions.
In Canada Mark and the team are making meaningful changes to operations pricing and assortment as they focus on improving performance in the upcoming holiday season.
Finally as Brian mentioned earlier over the last three months partnership with Interim Chair Roxanne Austin.
The leadership team has conducted an in-depth review of our strategy our brand our guest and our capabilities in both the U.S.
and Canada.
Since Brian arrived we have spent a great deal of time with him sharing insights from this review.
And we believe this work will provide the foundation from which we can build a longer term vision for our strategy and financial model.
We are so excited to welcome Brian to the team and committed to working with him to move this company forward.
And like Brian we believe the best days for Target lie ahead.
With that we will conclude today’s prepared remarks.
Now Brian Kathee and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Wayne Hood with BMO Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Brian and everyone.
Brian I had a question for you and then one for Kathee when you arrived the role of President was left open.
And I was curious whether or not you anticipate filling that role and any organizational structures that you might contemplate to speed the company to getting to market? And then Kathee if you could just peel back the onion around why the UPT was down 1.7% you made good progress in transactions but you took a step back in UPT.
And I am just wondering why and what you expect for those metrics into the third and fourth quarter? Thank you.
Wayne let me start by answering your first question.
My focus right now is to really understand the business in both the U.S.
and Canada and I am spending a lot of time with John and Kathee and the team to understand the guest perspective on Target how we improve our traffic how we enhance our performance in Canada and how we continue to build-out and rapidly build-out our omni-channel capabilities.
So I am very focused on making sure that we are going to make progress against those key three initiatives as I continue to look at the broader and longer term strategic options.
So my focus is really understanding the business today and strategy before we have any discussions around organization modifications going forward.
And then Wayne in terms of unit per transaction most of that was driven by higher dollar items that we were selling things in electronics and in entertainment so you see the healthy selling prices you mentioned but fewer units.
On the other portion of that that I would say is that we are seeing really good momentum in our trade-up strategies.
So we are selling in some cases fewer units but higher price points in other categories across the company but it’s predominantly electronics and entertainment.
Alright thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of David Strasser with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I just wanted to step back a little bit and look you talked about even gross margins for this year to 29% to 30% range is a pretty wide range.
And as you think about a world an e-commerce world and how things are changing fairly rapidly out there.
I am just trying to get a sense if you think over time that the gross margins are within that range lower end of that range and sort of how you are thinking about that competitive landscape.
I mean you talked a lot about a lot of new merchandising initiatives and stuff which can help offset some of that but at the same time as every company that we have seen kind of get more focused and driven around e-commerce seems to see their gross margins lower by the nature of what that business is.
So I would love to hear a little bit about your thought process there? Thank you.
Yes David there is no doubt with e-commerce being as immature as it is.
There is some pressure on gross margin.
We are committed to going where our guests go and they want to be able to shop online and we are going to make sure that we have got all the right products for them both online and in our stores.
So that does give us a little headwind on the gross margin but as you pointed out all of the newness that we are bringing in the things that our guests love most about Target that helps to offset it.
So we don’t have a number to share with you today but we are very focused on driving sales going where the guest is and offering them those products that delight them.
So I mean I guess just as a follow-up to that I mean if the guest does go more rapidly towards .com are you willing to accept lower gross margins to do that? And then just I guess sort of a related question to that too as you know you talked about opening stores for greater hours is there an SG&amp;A investment as well that would be related to e-com – aside from just the build-out of e-commerce that you think that you need to add to the stores once again as this world is shifting? Thank you very much.
On the gross margin rate I think Kathee said it really well.
We are going to go where the guest is and meet them provide the product they want where they want it when they want it how they want it but there is a lot of tools in our toolkit to manage gross margin rate.
There is certainly the product that Kathee talked about emphasizing the style categories with newness and differentiation.
Beyond that there is the flexible fulfillment options where we lowered shipping expense by moving the product closer to our guests and also ultimately balancing inventories better across the entire network and reducing markdowns that we incur today.
So there are lots of puts and takes.
And like Kathee said we don’t have it all sorted out today.
We will provide more information as we do but I think there are lots of puts and takes as we think about gross margin rate more broadly.
On the store hourly payroll first on the extended hours the investment there was immaterial to the quarter.
Again that was about half the stores adding one hour of operation so not significant investment there but with Tina Schiel our Head of Stores we continually talk about ensuring that we are striking the right balance between productivity in those stores and we are having great guest service results.
And what we see today our guest surveys of course are as high as they have ever been and the team continues to drive really strong expense control.
So we feel good about where we are today but we constantly evaluate that.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the answers.
Your next question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Brian I would like to start out by asking you for your long-term perspective of threshold for Canada is related to time and financial performance obviously that business today is performing at a materially lower level than was originally conceived when it was opened and presumably well below it’s cost of capital.
What would you want to see over time to keep that business running and what kind of timeframe do you have in mind for a same material improvement in that business? Yes.
Well Matthew as I mentioned earlier I spent time just last week with the Canadian team and I am certainly aware that the expansion has been challenging.
And from a Target standpoint we have disappointed many of our Canadian guests.
And Kathee has already referenced the fact that we are conducting an in-depth evaluation of our Canadian business that began several months ago.
And we are certainly looking to make material improvements in that business.
Right now short-term the focus is on improving in-stock conditions our pricing and assortment and really ensuring that we have got plans in place to improve our performance in the holiday upcoming.
So you can expect me to be spending quite a bit of time with the Canadian team along with Kathee to make sure we understand the opportunities we understand the challenges that we have to address and we are focused on improving in-stocks our value position and an assortment as we go forward.
So I am going to spend clearly the balance of the year working very closely with that team to make sure we have got plans in place to improve performance as we go into the holiday season.
Thanks for that.
And just a quick follow-up on the U.S.
business in the market for buy online pickup in stores more mature how additive do you find that is either to online sales or to the business overall? I know that for some retailers it can be as much as 30% or 40% of the overall online sales number.
So where you have seen – where you have the most track record behind if you will what’s your sense of how additive that can be? Well we did add it to the chain all at the same time.
So we don’t have any markets that are more mature.
We did do a little testing with the team members in Minneapolis before we rolled that but basically we rolled it all around November 1 of last year to all stores.
And we have been very pleased with the results from buy online pickup in store and about 14% of our digital sales today are being picked up in-store and then when they go to store to pickup those orders we are seeing about 20% of those guests shop in the store to pickup additional items and there is a very healthy basket with that as well so still early but very very promising.
We think it saves guest time it saves them money and it allows them to consolidate their shopping.
Thanks for that clarity.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
John I want to follow-up a bit on the gross margins down 100 bps in the quarter if I remember correctly you had a goal for $600 million of cost reduction this year roughly a third of it in cost of goods sold.
Could you give us an update as to where we are on that and how much that may have helped the quarter in terms of U.S.
margins? Yes sure.
You are right.
It was – the goal for expense optimization about $650 million incremental to last year which gets us to $850 million in total.
Of the $650 million this year just rough numbers about $200 million of that was on the gross margin line coming out of cost of goods more of that back-weighted than front-weighted.
We are probably about a little bit more than a third of the way through that probably a little bit more than that maybe half of the way through that.
So there was definitely some benefit in the quarter from expense optimization.
That was also true in the first quarter.
Both quarters have benefited but later in the year we will see more benefit as we continue to grow those savings.
And the same with the SG&amp;A out of that $650 million it’s more back end? Yes it builds as the year goes on.
We are annualizing on the roughly $200 million we saved last year.
That was primarily SG&amp;A.
So there is probably a little bit more good news in SG&amp;A right now but that will continue to build as well as we go throughout the year.
Great.
And if I could Brian thanks a lot and welcome back to retail.
Thank you Greg.
For your opening comments how long do you think it will take for you to sort of get to understand the business in the customers and actually come up with a plan is it something we should expect by year end or early next year or can you give us any time horizon on that? Well Greg I am going to quickly immerse myself in the details of the business both here in the U.S.
and Canada.
And John and Kathee and the leadership team have already spent hours with me walking through a lot of the strategic work that they have been doing over the last 90 days.
As I said earlier during my very first week I visited the Canadian market to spend time with that team.
And I want to be a good student of the business but clearly we have to have a sense of urgency here and a sense of pace.
And while I want to study the business and certainly and listen and learn from our team no one is happy with our current performance.
And our focus right now is to make sure we have got plans in place in the short-term to improve traffic we have got plans in place to improve our performance in Canada and we have got to continue to move faster from a digital and mobile standpoint to meet the needs of our guest.
So you can expect a clear sense of urgency but I certainly want to make sure I give myself the time to listen learn understand the business both from our team standpoint but also from the eyes of the target guest.
And you can expect me to dive in very quickly to understand the business to look for the opportunities and to work with the leadership team to develop very focused priorities as we go forward into 2015 and beyond.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Greg.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
I was hoping to get some more detail on the improved performance in July and August.
And I am wondering if you have a sense from your guest surveys how much of that change is driven by price investments efforts to improve the presentation or it maybe a change in the broader environment? Yes.
Matt I think it’s more about product and the newness that we have on the floor.
For back-to-school back-to-college we have seen both of those start off really strong.
Even in their peak weeks those stores are doing better that week after their peak.
So we are seeing it stronger in the peak and then get even stronger after that.
So I think it’s really product-related and newness.
Certainly we have had promotions.
Most of them are devoted to those core categories like apparel some of the back-to-college items but the guest right now is more focused on the occasion than they are under the promotion.
So that is very encouraging to us and I think its product driven.
Matt if I could just early days but the current performance on back-to-school and the way Kathee and the team have put back-to-school together at Target has been very impressive to me.
And I think it’s a great example of getting the product right the right balance of newness and innovation great advertising communication that really captures the guest attention and very strong in-store and online execution.
So I think that’s one of the great examples that we are going to continue to build from as we go forward but I think Kathee and the entire team have brought back-to-school to life back-to-college to life with the right products the right newness and innovation great advertising communication to support it and then very strong in-store and online execution.
That’s very helpful.
And then one housekeeping follow-up if I may your Canada comp transactions were only down about 2% which frankly was a little bit surprising against the grand opening halo I am wondering why UPT was down so much I think it was down over 8%? UPT down 8% in Canada Matt I think a lot of that – what I would tell you is a lot of noise going on in the Canada comp overall.
So much of the surge last year we saw very different types of transactions then we saw once we moved past that as we opened stores we saw that in each cycle very different behavior for those I don’t know four to six weeks when we had the surge period.
And then as the business settled down and got into a more normal state we saw more routine transaction counts and baskets.
What I would tell you is we are going to continue to see this.
It’s going to be noisy in Q3.
And really it won’t be till we get to Q4 when we have cycled past all the opening cycles all the densification that we get a real read on what’s going on on a comparable basis from the business year-over-year.
Okay thanks so much and good luck.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi yes good morning and welcome Brian.
Thanks Matt.
Kathee my question was actually for you you talk a lot about product freshness and newness and I was just wondering as you look to the fall merchandise plan how far can you push freshness and newness into that plan? What inning would you say that represents overall relative to what you consider to be more optimal level and when can we realistically expect you to reach that more optimal level? Thank you.
Well haven’t thought about it in terms of innings Matt but we are excited about what we have coming for the fall season.
I highlighted a lot of things that are coming in September and October but then moving on to the fourth quarter which we won’t be specific about today but we are excited about what that brings as well.
We have about 85 000 items in our assortment and we will have 35 000 new items this fall season.
So I do feel pretty optimistic about the contents the quality the trend the presentation but clearly in spring I think you will see that will be a full cycle out and we will have much more to come as we turned the corner into the spring season.
Thank you.
Matt thank you.
Operator I think we have got time for one last question.
Our final question will come from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning and welcome Brian.
Quick one for Kathee we talked in New York about a month ago about traffic trips and I understand we are still intact from the customer but you had lost 1 out of 10 and that maybe e-commerce was the angle of you to get that back.
My question is how confident and I don’t know if you have any early indications from your own data that when that customer does shop online with you that either they are not going to visit the store less or that they will not maintain the same level of purchasing? Yes.
The guest that shops Target online is absolutely our best guest.
They shop both online and in-stores.
It’s really all about what’s convenient for them and sometimes it’s just easier to knocking item off your list by buying it on your mobile device.
Sometimes you want to purchase it online by pick it up in store to do the rest but this is absolutely our best guest and one we will not see.
So we will go after being a seamless omni-channel retailer with confidence knowing that it’s the best thing for our guest and best thing for our business.
And I do think that that when we think about the last guest they are basically backed and so traffic changes are more about consolidated trips and trips shifting online.
So it’s an important part for us to own it which is why you see all of the efforts in our omni-channel capabilities and strategies with subscriptions and with personalization and with ship from store and buy online pickup in stores there is a lot of things that we are putting effort into that will help drive that momentum.
Okay.
Investor Communications</strong> Right.
Simeon thank you for the question and that concludes our Target second quarter 2014 earning conference call.
And I thank all of you for your participation today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday November 19 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Senior Director Investor Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan Chief Financial Officer; and Kathee Tesija Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer.
This morning Brian will discuss our third quarter performance and our priorities for the fourth quarter and beyond.
Then Kathee will provide more detail on recent performance and outline our plans for the fourth quarter including the holiday season.
And finally john will provide more detail on our financial performance and outlook for the rest of the year.
Following their remarks we will open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we are joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John and I will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Finally in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP EPS is included in this morning’s press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
With that I will turn it over to Brian for his comments on the third quarter and our priorities going forward.
Brian? Thanks John.
And good morning to all of you.
We are pleased with Target's third quarter financial performance which we announced earlier this morning.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $0.54 was better than our guidance of $0.40 to $0.50.
Driven by US segment comp sales growth of 1.2% which is also better than our expectations.
Importantly the US segments saw positive comps in all three months of the quarter.
And we are encouraged that the pace of US traffic continues to recover for a very challenging trend earlier in the year.
While US traffic still declined slightly in the third quarter performance was more than a full percentage point stronger than traffic trends through the first half of the year.
As we mentioned in our second quarter earning call we saw a strong start to back-to-school and to the back-to-college season and that strength continued in September.
Like many others our sales slowed as we entered October but recovered nicely towards the end of the month as we approached Halloween.
While our Canadian segment continues to see robust year-over-year growth third quarter sales in Canada fell short of our expectations.
As Kathee outlined in our last earnings call the team in Canada has been working diligently to make improvements to operations assortment and pricing in preparation for the fourth quarter.
With these changes we believe we are better positioned to serve our guests at a time of the year when traffic will naturally be higher.
The guest response to these changes both in their shopping behavior and overall sentiment towards Target will inform our perspective as we continue to assess our longer-term potential in Canada.
As I visited stores across the US and Canada and worked with the Target team I have been continually impressed with the level of their talent and passion to perform.
As the leadership team has begun our work to develop Target's longer term goals we have aligned around five key operating principles.
First we will provide strategic clarity to the team.
Second we will articulate what Target stands for in today's retail marketplace.
Third we will thoughtfully prioritize what we do applying discipline to ensure we are focused on work that adds the most long-term value.
Fourth we will invest resources and build capabilities to support our priorities so the team is equipped to deliver on these goals.
And finally we will foster a culture of accountability at all levels of the organization.
While our work to define Target's longer-term vision is not yet complete we've made significant progress in defining the short and longer term priorities for our business.
First omni-channel and flexible fulfillment capabilities are key to our long-term success.
Target's digital sales are growing much faster than the industry and they have been accelerating all year and we are planning for even faster growth in the fourth quarter.
But our omni-channel journey is just beginning.
As we plan for the future we will take a channel-agnostic view of our growth allowing our guests to interact with us where and when they want online in stores and on their mobile device.
And because an increasing number of Target visits begin on a digital platform we will continue to push ourselves to innovate and build capabilities and features into our digital experience that will inspire guests while removing friction from their daily lives.
Second we are defining how we will strategically segment our categories and increase our focus on signature categories we can and should be known for.
Categories like baby kids wellness and style.
Over time we will work to grow these areas more quickly by investing a higher share of our resources including capital marketing and product development.
Importantly this view of segmentation doesn't mean we are abandoning our other categories.
Let me restate this.
It does not mean we are abandoning our other categories.
But we will have different expectation for those categories compared to the ones in which we are investing to outperform.
For example we believe we should continue to present a meaningful food offering in our stores and online.
But we need to ensure that our food offering is uniquely Target and clearly differentiated from our competitors.
Looking ahead we know our identity and food will continue to involve a combination of national brands and our own and exclusive brands with increased emphasis on natural and better-for-you products.
Third we know that localization and personalization will be a key focus going forward.
Fifteen years ago all Target stores were virtually identical and were focused on providing consistent assortment and experience across the country.
In today's world we need to continue to maintain our brand standards across every store.
But our guests expect each of our stores to reflect the local communities in which they operate.
In the past we have taken some initial steps to localize our store environment and assortment.
But we have only scratched the surface to this opportunity.
Similarly Target's digital experience will become increasingly personalized for every guest.
This year we have developed and rolled out a new personalization engine which is currently generating product recommendations for guests on our digital platforms.
Even though this new engine is in the beta rollout stage conversion rate from its recommendations are already exceeding what we were previously seeing with the third party product.
As we continue to make changes based on initial learning we expect conversion rates will expand further overtime.
Looking ahead we expect to leverage this engine's capability to provide customized experiences across our digital platforms.
As we contemplate potential store growth we believe that smaller formats present an exiting opportunity for Target because urban consumers have such a high affinity for our brand.
If we can reach more of these guests with small flexible formats like City Target and Target Express we can offer urban consumers greater convenience unique merchandise and an outstanding value with extended assortment available at target.com.
And finally as we plan for the future we must focus on ways to responsibly control cost to help fuel investments in our growth.
The team has made solid progress in expense optimization effort over the last few years but we believe we must continue to find cost saving opportunities in the years to come.
In the coming months the leadership team will continue our work to fully math out longer-term aspiration for Target and we will communicate those plans to you early next year.
In the near-term we are focused on strong execution our fourth quarter plans both the US and Canada.
These plans are designed to embrace the core of our expect more pay less brand promise inspiring our guest with unique products and experiences while providing unbeatable value to our low prices.
Kathee will provide more detail in a few minutes.
In Canada we are expecting much better fourth quarter performance than we experienced last year.
But we know that to succeed in Canada we will need a major step change in performance.
The fact is given where we are performing today we need to see improved financial performance from every Target store in Canada overtime.
The team has worked hard to prepare for the Canadian operations for the fourth quarter.
And we will be watching to see how those improvements connect with our guests during the holiday season.
While there is much more work to be done I am very pleased with the momentum we are seeing in the US business and the changes we have implemented to better position our Canadian segment.
My confidence in the potential of this company and this brand have only been reinforced in the last three months as I gain deeper knowledge of Target to my work with the team.
I am committed to realize in the potential of this great American brand to the benefit of our guests team shareholders and communities.
And I believe we are taking the right first steps in that journey.
Now I will turn the call over to Kathee for a recap of the third quarter performance and our plans for the holiday season.
Kathee?  Thanks Brian.
On our last conference call we outlined that we had already seen a strong start to the third quarter driven by initial results in the back-to-school and back-to-college season.
A key question at the time was whether this early strength would prove to be temporary resulting in a pullback later in the quarter.
With the quarter now behind us I am happy to report that we continue to outperform our US forecast throughout the quarter and saw positive US comps all three months.
As Brian mentioned earlier third quarter US traffic was down slightly from a year ago but we are encouraged that our traffic trend has improved meaningfully every quarter this year.
Consistent with year-to-date trends average ticket increased 1.6% in the third quarter driven by growth in average retail per item particularly partially offset by a decline in items per basket.
At a category level in the US third quarter comparable sales performance was strongest in healthcare and beauty led by beauty which continues to benefit from this year's store fixture innovations and the introduction of new brands.
Third quarter comps in home were up in the low single digits with particular strength in seasonal categories benefiting from back-to-school back-to-college sales early in the quarter and late quarter strength in Halloween.
Third quarter comp sales in grocery were up in the low single digits and hard lines was up slightly led by toys which saw a high single digit increase on strength in licenses like Frozen and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
Comp sales in apparel were down slightly as strength in baby and kids was offset by softness in jewelry accessories and intimates.
From a mixed perspective it's worth noting that our combined home or combined comp in home and apparel was the strongest we have seen in two years.
In October and early November we completed the rollout of our new apparel fixtures and layout to an additional 600 stores bringing the total to about 650 locations featuring this enhanced presentation.
Consistent with our expectations the US third quarter gross margin rate was about 50 basis points lower than last year about half the decline we saw in the second quarter.
This reflects continued moderation of our promotional intensity which we intentionally moved higher in the wake of last December's data breach.
Digital sales were up more than 30% in the third quarter and contributed about 60 basis points our US comparable sales growth.
Consistent with the rest of the industry all of our digital traffic growth is on our mobile platforms where third quarter traffic grew more than 50%.
Conversion this quarter was up strongly on both the conventional site and on mobile compounding the benefit from the traffic growth.
Following the success of our second quarter decision to offer free shipping on all target.com orders over $50 in October we announced that we are offering our guests free shipping on all orders this holiday season.
Since this announcement our guests have responded enthusiastically.
We've seen a meaningful increase in both orders and conversion compared with trends prior to the announcement.
Of course I would be remised if I didn't point out that REDcard holders continue to receive free shipping on all orders year round.
In Canada third quarter sales were up 44% from a year ago moderately below our expectations.
Our third quarter gross margin rate of 19.5% was consistent with our expectations as we continue to clear excess inventory from earlier in the year.
As Brian mentioned the team in Canada has been working diligently to improve operations assortment and pricing and our internal measures show that we are making progress.
However we are also measuring the impact these changes are having on Canadian consumer sentiment and that data is more mixed.
We will continue to measure guest sentiment in the fourth quarter when all of our recent improvements will be fully in place and traffic will be naturally higher.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter and the holiday shopping season we are excited about our plans to inspire our guests with unique products outstanding deals and increased convenience provided by our flexible fulfillment efforts.
On our digital platforms we are coming into this holiday season with many more capabilities than we had a year ago.
In fact it was about a year ago that we rolled out in-store pickup across all of our US stores.
So far this year store pickup orders have averaged about 15% of digital traffic with more than 80% of orders ready within an hour.
Based on last year's results we expect in-store pickup orders will become a much higher share of digital traffic in the days leading up to Christmas as consumers increasingly value the certainty this service provides compared with the potential risk posed by weather related shipping delays.
And we continue to explore potential enhancements to flexible fulfillment like our curbside test pickup test in 10 San Francisco Bay Area stores and our same-day delivery test in Minneapolis Boston and Miami.
The Target app and Cartwheel are both top 10 retail apps and we continue to innovate to maintain our leadership position in this space.
In the third quarter we re-launched our mobile and tablet apps making it easier for guests to locate and purchase what they are looking for with interactive store maps and shopping lists streamline checkout and the addition of Apple Pay for the iPhone app.
Our new list function automatically notifies guests when an item is on sale or eligible for an offer on Cartwheel and our new interactive store maps show item locations throughout each store.
For our in-store Black Friday guests this year special interactive maps will show door buster locations throughout each store.
We completed a successful national-wide rollout of ship-from-store capability in October.
With the rollout we are now shipping about 60 000 eligible products from 136 stores in 38 markets covering more than 90% of the US population.
The ability to access stores inventory to fulfill online orders improves our digital in-stocks and drives incremental sales in situations where we are out of stock in our fulfillment centers.
And while shipping from stores significantly lower shipping costs most importantly it allows us to get items into guests' hands more quickly.
This change is already being noticed.
In the third quarter Internet Retailer reported a survey showing that we were leading our competitors with the fastest delivery having been near the back of the pack earlier in the year.
We recently rolled out and improved omni-channel experience for our registries with new web-enabled smart scanners and a matching target.com user experience.
The new smart scanners allow guests to add items more quickly to a registry and new features like collections and check lists provide inspiration and help guests build registries more quickly.
Guests can add online-only items like specific colors or models right from the device in the store without having to edit online at home later.
And companion and related products are suggested immediately when a guest adds an item to their registry.
And when gift givers access a registry on our new in-store iPad kiosks they can send gift list to their smart phones via SMS with saving time reducing costs and eliminating waste from paper printouts.
As we enter the holiday shopping season we are featuring a dazzling array of unique and exclusive products and of course outstanding deals.
In September we announced that Target would be partnering with TOMS on a limited edition holiday collection of home goods apparel accessories and shoes for women men and children.
Similar to TOMS' one-for-one giving model for each item purchased a donation will be made with the potential to provide more than 11 million meals blankets and shoes to those in need.
The collection rolled out at all Target stores in the US and Canada and on target.com on November 16th.
We also recently announced our holiday collaboration with Faribault Woolen Mill.
Founded in 1865 and located on the banks of the Cannon River in Faribault Minnesota.
This mill is part of American history having provided woolen blankets for pioneers headed west and for American troops in two world wars.
On November 2nd we rolled out a variety of American made giftable items from this iconic company featuring 100% wool scarves throws tote bags and tech accessories in four patterns available exclusively on target.com.
If there's one thing we have learnt from our partnerships with Taylor Swift is that our guests can't get enough of Taylor and her music.
Even though gifting season is yet to come our Target exclusive deluxe edition of Taylor CD titled 1989 featuring three exclusive songs and voice memos that gives fans unique insight into her song writing process has already become our best-selling album of all time.
Disney's Frozen has been huge for us all year and is positioned to be one of the most popular licensed brands at Target this holiday season with 600 frozen products 60 exclusive to Target across 20 categories.
For the holidays we are partnering with Renée Ehrlich Kalfus costume designer for the contemporized Annie film to offer guests a limited edition collection of kids' apparel and accessories inspired by the film.
Annie for Target will be available through December 26th or while supplies last at all US Target stores and on target.com.
The film debuts in theaters nationwide on December 19th.
In beauty we continue to experience strong growth in natural products and we are constantly on the lookout for new lines that we appeal to our guests.
We have already launched 7 premium skincare brands this year and we are thrilled to announce that two more super-luxe lines are on the way available now on target.com and in select stores.
In March 2015 Target is adding S.W.
Basics of Brooklyn and Nuxe to its lineup of premium skincare products.
All new in beauty Skinfix experts in steroid-free skin healing solutions for the whole family debuted its incredibly effective product exclusively at all US Target stores and online at target.com.
Skinfix products are based on an original formula created over 150 years ago by pharmacist Thomas Dickson in Yorkshire England.
And in hair care we are seeing continued momentum in natural with our Made to Matter products and we are excited about recently added salon products like Proganix from Vogue and exclusives like Procter and Gamble's hair food and L'Oreal's Dessange.
In healthcare we announced earlier this week that Target and Kaiser Permanente are teaming up to launch four Target clinics in Southern California.
For the first time at Target guests will have access to expanded services not typically available in retail clinics including pediatric and adolescent care well woman care family planning and management of chronic conditions like diabetes and high blood pressure.
And coming in 2015 our new pharmacy app Target Healthful will allow guest to organize and transfer prescriptions check prescription status and order refills.
And finally of course we are designing our marketing plans to bring the entire holiday season together from amazing products to outstanding deals.
Our holiday marketing campaign is designed to encourage people of all ages to let loose get into the spirit and feel the unmistakable joy of the holiday season.
The advertising will boldly embrace the iconic elements that make Target Target.
Lots of red white and our lovable mascot Bullseye.
The campaign will include broadcast radio out of home and catalogues and we are increasing digital media support by 50% over last year.
Target stores will be transformed with fun and whimsical in-store decor created in partnership with David Stark one of the top event planners.
This year we are partnering with innovative New York retailer STORY which brings an editorial lens to retail and reinvents itself every four to eight weeks from merchandise and store design to floor plans and fixtures bringing to life a new theme or trend.
From Target's design partnerships to its everyday collections STORY has curated its favorite holiday treasures from Target alongside its other must-have items for the season.
We just launched our kids Wish List app on October 31st a modern and digital take on the classic tradition of creating holiday wish lists for parents and kids.
Kids can add must-have items to their list while parents can share the list with friends and family plus guests can save 10% on their wish lists on one day of their choosing before November 26th.
Through the holiday shopping season Cartwheel Target's industry leading savings app will offer daily deals for its more than 11 million users.
And from November 2nd to December 24th it will feature 50% off a different joy everyday.
The app will have new features for the holidays including special deals for top users personalized recommendations and a select number of popular offers that don't expire.
As always REDcard holders get 5% off nearly all purchases free shipping at target.com and an extra 30 days for returns.
Since 5% REDcard rewards rolled out in 2010 Target has saved guests more than $2 billion and we will thank guests for their loyalty with perks throughout the holiday season.
We know our guests are pulled in a million different directions as the holidays get underway so we are helping them save time and money by offering more access to Black Friday deals.
Whether shopping online on their phone or in our stores Target guests will find Black Friday deals on top guests throughout November.
We already offered early access to Black Friday deals for one-day only on November 10th.
We've announced a presale on Wednesday November 26th and Cartwheel will feature access to additional Black Friday deals between November 23rd and November 29th.
On Thanksgiving Day Black Friday deals will be available first in the morning on target.com then at 6 pm Target stores will open for Black Friday shoppers and the first several 100 guests will receive a Christmas cracker gift synonymous with the holidays in many parts of the world which will include a Target gift card or coupon.
On Black Friday from 6 am to noon guest can purchase up to $300 in Target gift cards at a 10% off at Target stores and target.com the first time Target has ever offered a discount on Target gift card purchases.
The following day additional Saturday only deals will be available in Target stores and at target.com.
And finally beginning Monday December 1st guests will find new deals everyday at target.com as part of Target's largest ever cyber week sale with more than 100 000 items on sales throughout the week.
The offers will include category-wide sales in key gifting areas and steep discount on apparel toys and housewares.
More information and deals will be available at the end of November.
As we look back at an eventful year we are pleased with the steps we have taken to improve our performance in both the US and Canada and our financial results show that we are making meaningful progress.
While there is much more work to be done we are confident in our plans for the upcoming holiday shopping season and pleased with our progress in -- charting a longer-term course for the Target of the future.
Now I will turn it over to John who will share his insights on our third quarter financial performance and our fourth quarter outlook.
John? Thanks Kathee.
Our third quarter financial performance was better than expected driven by stronger than expected sales and operating margin performance in our US segment.
Adjusted EPS of $0.54 was $0.02 or 2.9% below last year reflecting a decline in US segment profit partially offset by the benefit of reduced losses in our Canadian segment.
GAAP EPS of $0.55 was $0.01 or 2.7% higher than last year benefiting from the resolution of tax matters in the quarter.
Our third quarter US comparable sales increase of 1.2% matches our best performance in the last two years.
Digital sales in the US including flexible fulfillment grew more than 30% contributing about 60 basis points to our US comparable sales.
With ship-from-store capabilities now fully in place we expect digital sales growth to accelerate to nearly 40% in the fourth quarter.
Our third quarter US segment EBITDA margin rate of 8.5% was ahead of our expectations driven by a better than expected SG&amp;A expense rate of 21% which is about 20 basis points lower than last year.
This performance was the result of our expense optimization efforts better leverage on stronger than expected sales and retiming of some expenses into the fourth quarter.
US REDcard penetration was 21% in the third quarter up about 110 basis points from last year driven by growth in both credit and debit penetration.
As we described last quarter applications for new REDcard debit cards are running below last year causing penetration growth to decelerate from last year's pace.
We believe this trend will continue in the fourth quarter when we expect US REDcard penetration will be flat or up slightly compared with last year.
With the success of recent initiatives designed to increase REDcard applications we expect the fourth quarter will mark the low point in year-over-year penetration growth after which we should see a reacceleration in 2015.
In our Canadian segment third quarter sales were below our expectations growing 44% above last year reflecting sales from new stores and a comparable sales increase of 1.6%.
As I mentioned last quarter the comparable sales metric in Canada will be noisy until we fully annualize the rapid pace of last year's store rollout.
Given the sustained grand opening surges we experienced in those stores and the densification around early cycle stores that occurred later in 2013.
REDcard penetration continues to grow in the Canadian segment reaching 4.2% in the third quarter compared with 2.9% last year.
As expected third quarter Canadian segment EBITDA and EBIT margin rates improved somewhat from last year and EBIT dollar losses were about 18% lower than a year ago.
While this improvement is encouraging financial results in this segment remain unacceptable.
And as Brian mentioned earlier we need to see a significant step change in Canadian segment financial performance.
Outside of operating results in the US and Canada our third quarter GAAP EPS of $0.55 reflects a few items not included in adjusted EPS.
Specifically $0.05 of accretion related to the resolution of income tax matters and $0.04 of offsetting dilution from data breach related costs reduction in beneficial interest asset and impairment losses.
Moving to consolidated metrics third quarter interest expense was flat to last year and we paid $330 million in dividends in the quarter and increase of 21% over last year.
As expected we didn't repurchase any shares in the third quarter.
And given current performance and our goal to maintain our single 'A' debt ratings we don't anticipate any share repurchase in the fourth quarter as well.
Of course the timing and magnitude of any future share repurchase activity will depend on the pace of improved financial performance in both the US and Canada.
Before I move to our outlook I want to first address our inventory which at quarter end was about 7% above last year.
This increase was entirely driven by our US segment and was the result of two factors.
While a third of this increase relates to our recent efforts to reduce out-of-stocks on commodity products while the remainder reflects receipt timing including the impact of our efforts to manage around slowdown at West Coast ports.
Bottomline we feel very good about our current US inventory level.
Now let's move to our outlook for the fourth quarter.
As we consider the broader environment we see some encouraging signs including lower gas prices than we've seen in some time.
However consumer spending patterns remain quite volatile and we expect the competitive environment will remain highly promotional this holiday season.
Based on this backdrop and the Q3 to Q4 expense retirement I covered earlier we are continuing to plan cautiously and maintaining our prior full-year guidance despite stronger than expected third quarter performance.
In the US we are expecting a fourth quarter comparable sales increase of about 2%.
So far in November we are running ahead of our forecast but I will quickly remind everyone that the bulk of the season remains ahead of us.
We expect our fourth quarter US gross margin rate will improve somewhat from a year ago.
Last year in the US we faced unexpected gross margin headwinds because of the data breach including the pre-Christmas weekend in which we gave our guests 10% off every transaction along with incremental clearance markdowns resulting from softer sales.
So while we expect the typical year-over-year gross margin pressure from an intensely promotional and highly competitive fourth quarter we believe that pressure will be more than offset by the benefit from annualizing last year's breach related markdowns.
We expect our US segment SG&amp;A expense rate to be flat to down slightly from last year as the benefit from expense optimization and better leverage on a 2% comp is expected to be offset by the timing of expenses which moved from the third to the fourth quarter.
Altogether our outlook is for the US segment EBITDA margin rate to improve 50 to 60 basis points compared with last year.
In Canada we expect a high single digit increase in total sales driven by a mid-to-high single digit increase in comparable sales.
We expect the gross margin rate of around 20% much better than last year's 4% rate which resulted from extreme clearance activity and reserves taken on excess inventory.
With an expected SG&amp;A expense rate of between 35% and 40% we anticipate fourth quarter Canadian segment EBITDA losses of about $100 million an improvement of about $160 million compared with last year.
Turning to consolidated metrics we expect a small increase in fourth quarter interest expense compared with last year.
And for the first time this year we expect our tax expense to be higher than last year in light of the expected improvement in profitability.
Altogether these expectations will lead to fourth quarter adjusted EPS of $1.13 to $1.23 well above the $0.90 we earned last year.
Fourth quarter GAAP EPS is expected to include $0.02 of dilution from the reduction in the beneficial interest asset and any future data breach expenses which are not expected to be material.
For the full year the center of our adjusted EPS expectation remains at $3.20.
GAAP EPS is expected to be $0.45 lower than adjusted EPS reflecting a variety of adjustments including debt retirement and breach related expenses.
Fourth quarter will mark a notable inflexion point as we annualize the data breach and expect to see the first year-over-year increase in operating profit this year.
This would provide clear financial evidence of the healing process we've been engaged in throughout the year and we look forward to entering next year with an energized team and positive momentum in our financial performance.
With that we will conclude today's prepared remarks.
Now Brian Kathee and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Sean Naughton from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank for taking the question.
So John you mentioned there has been a lot of talk about gas prices and the potential positive benefit on the consumer.
But just curious if you could speak to the potential benefit you may receive on the P&amp;L from a distribution standpoint? And if those are savings that are there how would you guys look to use those additional distribution savings between flowing through to earnings and potentially reinvesting to drive traffic? Yeah I think a couple of things.
Certainly there would likely be some benefits if we continue to see fuel prices come down but we haven't reached the threshold where fuel surcharges begin to come out of our contracts and I think importantly given the great work the team has done to manage some of the port issues out west we are working around that and moving some freight further expediting some freight flying some freight and I think net-net that will probably be more of a drag than any fuel savings we will see.
So – and then I just guess just the second question on the overall basket the UPT continues to be -- to decline and actually looks like it'll decelerate a little bit on a two-year basis.
Just wondering if you could give us a little bit more color around that particular dynamic either at the store level perspective given the higher food concentration I would be expecting that to improve but maybe this is being offset by online? And I guess the follow-up would be is how do you improve that dynamic moving forward? Thanks.
Yeah Sean this is Kathee.
It's predominantly a mix story for us.
So we have higher ticket items like all the Apple products including the launch of the iPhone 6 in the quarter.
We've got video game consoles that are higher we have a lot of trade-up strategies both in inessentials like you talked about like in grocery with organics but also in areas like skin care which I described a little bit earlier.
So this is really a mix story.
So it's less about the shift between online and store at this [point in time] [ph].
Correct.
Yeah.
Thank you and best of luck for the holiday.
Thank you Sean.
You next question comes from Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo.
Good morning and congrats on improved US results.
My first question is on expenses in the US.
They've basically been running flat on a dollar basis this year down a little bit per foot.
I am wondering if you can get into a little more detail on what's driving the cost savings and then in terms of the outlook is this a line that you think you can run flat to up in dollars up slightly in dollars over the next year or so or should we expect it to grow a little faster than that.
Hi Matt.
Yeah I think the expense savings I would tell you we've talked about the expense optimization efforts all year been very focused on that and has been across the entire enterprise and we've seen good news in SG&amp;A and also in the cost of goods.
There are a couple of areas I would point out the stores performance has been outstanding driving productivity increases while still continuing to remain very strong guest service scores frankly our guest service scores historically so we have seen great performance there.
And then it's just really many other areas.
There's been great work done in marketing around the circular.
There's been great work done in our transportation and how we optimize our network of transportation.
So really across the enterprise.
I think importantly to your question about [Indiscernible] we believe there continues to be significant opportunity for us to continue to take expense out and so for the foreseeable future we would expect to continue to see expenses very well controlled and to lever expenses at really -- relatively modest increases in sales.
And it's Brian.
And to build on John's point and as I discussed in my prepared comments as we move forward we recognize that we are going to continue to need to focus on expense management to fuel the investments we are going to make to drive continued growth across our store base and our digital platform.
So as we come back to you in the spring and we talk more specifically about our strategy you should expect us to continue to talk about cost optimization efforts and how we will use those efforts to reinvest in the fuel that's going to drive our growth.
Okay that's great.
And then secondly on target.com I wanted to ask a question about the free shipping program.
Does the incremental volume offset the incremental shipping expense? Is it profit accretive? And do you think that the customers that are utilizing this offer are high life time value customers? Yeah it's not accretive.
I will tell you we do ship even prior to the holiday free shipping.
We do free ship a lot more than perhaps you would think and certainly more than some of our competitors given REDcard and the fact that that ships free all year round.
So we have seen -- we know it's the number one frustration with our guests and the number one reason for abandoned cards.
And so it was important for us this holiday season to be able to take that friction away and we have seen meaningful move in orders and conversion because of it.
So we are very pleased with the result so far.
Yeah Matt the only thing I’d add while not accretive -- the only thing I would add is it’s not material either to our results in the fourth quarter.
Okay very helpful.
Best of luck this holiday.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question comes from Oliver Chen from Cowen and Company.
Thank you and congrats.
Regarding the -- the great idea regarding signature categories and where you are focusing there how would you help us just prioritize which categories have the most opportunities in terms of lead time and revenue mix and timing of impact? And is the extrapolation there that traffic will be the biggest kind of comp upside driver as you do focus on these categories? Thanks.
Yeah Oliver I think as we go forward and as Kathee and the team really elevate our focus around those signature categories categories like baby and kids wellness and style you should expect to see additional focus in store.
You should see additional innovation partnerships.
But really ensuring that we are leading with trend we are anticipating what our guest is looking for in those categories and those are categories that Target becomes famous for.
And we are certainly going to double down our efforts in those categories because our guest has asked us to.
There are categories that are very important to our guest.
They are synonymous with the Target experience the guest is expecting.
And you will see signs of that as we move into 2015 and beyond.
Certainly some of the work that Kathee and her team have done in preparation for the fourth quarter are already bringing our efforts to life in apparel.
Some of the things that we have done in home the partnerships that Kathee talked about in her prepared comments our continued focus on baby and kids and we know how important toys are during the holiday season.
So we are already making progress in those spaces.
But I also want to make sure it's really clear that does not mean we are walking away from other categories in our stores.
They just play a different role in our future strategy and there'll continue to be areas where we are going to look to improve our execution and performance.
But from a prioritization standpoint we think those signature categories that we’ve talked about are key to the guests.
The guest has told us those are critically important to them and Kathee and her team are working rapidly to ensure that we continue to build our position enhance our assortment and bring great newness and innovation to those key categories.
So a couple of things I would add to that you will already see in stores right now.
Brian talked about those four areas baby kids wellness and style.
So in baby about 200 stores have a new presentation where we have invested in labor in the stores to help guests create registry and gift givers find the perfect gift.
We have added mannequins and things that help the presentation.
I also chaired today the registry that we have redone completely - the whole experience from the in-store hardware to the software that we use and how that helps guests create registries much easier.
We are already seeing the benefit of that.
Wellness we have talked a lot about Made to Matter and better for you products.
So you see that already this year.
And then in style just to touch on that for a minute we now have about 650 stores that have our new presentation in apparel including mannequins.
So already some progress and we will continue to push forward in those areas and you will see more and more as the months and year goes on.
Oliver the final point I'd add as we think about style.
Certainly apparel and home are critically important in that space but so is beauty.
And as John and Kathee have referenced we use one of our standout categories in the third quarter and we expect continued strong performance as we exit the year.
Thank you.
And just as a follow-up that's related.
There seems to be a lot of energized agility Brian regarding -- thinking about what Target stands for from a bigger picture perspective.
What are some of the initial thoughts on where you see that opportunity as you work to further differentiate and innovate yourself? Oliver I think we are making progress across a number of different areas.
Certainly we talked about omni-channel and really making sure that we are a significant player in this space.
We are seeing very strong performance up over 30% in the third quarter.
John talked about that that we expect that performance to accelerate in Q4.
We clearly took away the pain point of shipping by announcing free ship in the fourth quarter and we think that's another way for the [indiscernible] to declare we are significantly committed to this space.
We are seeing a great response to Cartwheel and have 11 million users today and we are going to use that to make sure that we use digital as the front door to connect to the target brand going forward.
We talked about some of the progress that's being made in merchandising and we've got 35 000 new items in stores for the holiday.
And we are going to continue to test and partner as we continue to make sure we are bringing the right solutions to our guests.
If you haven't seen some of the holiday creative I think it's some of the best Target’s delivered in years and I am getting emails and comments from guests and friends and people I know everyday talking about their reaction to the holiday creative and how the curative campaign it's uniquely Target.
And we are certainly upping our game both in-store.
But we are also going to spend significantly more in digital this year to touch our guests no matter how they are connecting with the brand.
In-store we have made significant progress in a very short period of time going from testing ship-from-store to now we are in 38 markets 136 stores where our stores are acting like flexible fulfillment centers.
You can shop there you can pick up there but they are also shipping to -- directly to our guests.
And allows us to cover 90% of our marketplace in a very short period of time.
Takes the pain away from that last mile.
So I think you are going to continue to see us make these points and that's a sneak peak of Target in the future.
And I think that is creating positive energy in the organization.
Kathee and I are hearing really positive things from our vendors.
Our organization knows we got to be more -- we got to show more agility we got to be responsive we got to make sure we are externally focused in following the guest.
I think you are seeing some of those things take shape today.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Best regards for the holidays.
Thank you.
You next question comes from Wayne Hood from BMO Capital.
Yeah Kathee I have questions maybe a little bit longer terms in places of the context of how you evolve a company and that is related to where you see AUR trending because you are talking about more of this is in kids and baby which typically is lower ticket and maybe pulling back on promotions and electronics because that's not cooler.
I am just wondering where you think you are AUR might land over the next few years in light of kind of 2% to 3% growth you've been experiencing under the existing strategy.
And then if you could talk about -- John if you could talk about the growth in inventory next year and its impact on working capital as you think about being better in stock on the ad merchandise and the like? Thank you.
We haven't modeled exactly what that will be yet.
But I would tell you I think it will be moving up for a couple of reasons.
So you heard Brian talk about those areas that we are going to focus on and really being famous for them in delighting our guests.
And when we are at our best we offer both expect more pay less together in all of these categories and that means a really thoughtful balance of good better best having clear features and benefits as we move up that ladder allowing guests to be able to buy whatever is important to them but importantly offering really good trade-up opportunities.
So you are seeing some of that right now in some categories.
But I think as we move forward and we become famous again for some of these categories there will be a lot of trade up opportunities.
So I would say overall seeing it moving up.
And Wayne your second question inventory I think the one thing I would say if you look at our number this quarter 6% to 7% all the US really only about a third of that do we view as temporary.
The vast majority of that was receipt timing.
But that curve we expect to stay around; we started that in second quarter this year.
We will cycle it again next year in second quarter somewhere around 2% to 3% increase for the first half and next year.
But offsetting that ultimately as we start to get back to positive comp sales we should see faster turn and that should ultimately lead to better payables leverage.
So not a meaningful impact overall once we get past fourth quarter here on our working capital.
Right.
Thank you.
You next question is from Greg Melich from Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
I have two questions that are maybe a little bit linked.
John if we start on dotcom which if my [indiscernible] writes around 2.5% of sales in the quarter.
What does that do to the margin going forward? I know you mentioned it sort of immaterial for the fourth quarter but tell us what it did in the third quarter and how we should think about it? I mean it's probably dilutive of some effect and whether it's more in gross margin or SG&amp;A? And then I had a follow-up.
On margin it's definitely dilutive Greg if for no other reason in the shipping expense.
And I think as it continues to grow that will put margin pressure on the P&amp;L and we've talked a little bit about this.
There are lots of puts and takes in gross margin as we think about it going forward that we're working through today.
As that business grows it will be margin dilutive.
But as we increase penetration of ship-from-store and pickup in-store that significantly not only improves our guest experience but significantly improves the P&amp;L.
We're also balancing how we look at pricing right now and balancing inventories across the network as we ship from store.
So some of those are up some of those are down.
And we're working through right now where ultimately gross margin will land.
And then the follow-up and maybe Brian you -- in your comments you talked about making sure in the five-key operating principles that invest to build capabilities.
I love your perspective on -- this year CapEx is down a lot and we're running I guess a little over $2 billion as the run rate.
What do you think is the CapEx need sort of going forward to invest in what Target really needs to do to be the best it can be? Greg we're assessing that right now as we think about 2015 and beyond.
But you should expect us to be investing in the capability to continue to build out our digital experience to continue to enhance our in-store experience to make sure we have the analytical tools to properly manage expenses and margin even more surgically going forward.
And I talked about -- while certainly in the early stages we're going to continue to look at smaller formats and how we use smaller formats to penetrate urban markets allow our guest a chance to interact with the Target brand both in-store but also continue to build out the opportunity for them to purchase online.
So we're in the early stages of assessing our long-term capital needs but you should expect us to be investing in the right capabilities and tool to provide long-term shareholder value and allow us to continue to fuel our growth and enhance both margins and continue to manage operating expenses effectively.
Would that mean CapEx would be above D&amp;A at some point in the future or do you think you can stay below that? Greg we think -- at least Brian said I think with the caveat that we're working through this right now we think we're probably in about the right range right now.
The spend may move around a little bit.
I think the one wild card is the point Brian made about small formats.
But I would note that obviously the investment there is significantly below what a prototypical Target would look like.
So it would take a lot of those to meaningfully move our CapEx number.
So like we've talked about something in for the US in that $2 billion -- $2.5 billion range still makes sense but we're doing the work right now.
That's great.
Thanks a lot.
Good luck for holiday.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
I know there's a lot of big picture questions to discuss but actually I have two quantitative ones related to the quarter.
First of all John can you talk about the expense the magnitude of the expense dollars that shifted from the third quarter to the fourth and talk about perhaps functionally speaking what they're related to? Yeah most of it is marketing moved around.
And the magnitude if you think about us beating by somewhere in the neighborhood of $0.09 is a little bit less than half the beat.
So somewhere in that $30 million to $40 million moved between the quarters.
Got it.
Thanks for that.
And then secondly you talked about running ahead of the fourth quarter plan.
Just as we think about the cadence of that plan obviously you had a tough January as did many retailers particularly given the breach.
So when you say running ahead is that running ahead of the 2% number as we speak or running ahead of a plan that's maybe a bit more nuanced than that as we think about where we are in the progression of the quarter and your compares a year ago? Well I wouldn't want to get into that level of detail.
Clearly last year pre-breach was stronger than post-breach and we took that into account as we thought about the calendarization of the plan and right now we're running ahead of that and we feel good about where we're at not only relative to the plan but on an absolute basis is what I'd say.
But there is a lot of business left to be done before we get to the end of January.
Got it.
Thank you for both of those appreciate it.
Thanks Matt.
Your final question comes from Michael Lasser from UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
It's on the food category.
And recognizing you're not going to deemphasize it you're just going to streamline it how are you thinking about the return profile of that space within the store? And then could there be any differences in amongst how space is allocated could that area get less over time? Yeah and let's drop back and make sure we clarify our point on the food category.
We have no intentions today to streamline those categories.
But Kathee and the team are certainly stepping back listening to the guests really understanding what the Target guest is looking for in food.
From an assortment standpoint from a newness standpoint we talked about the fact that as we go forward you should expect to see more natural and organic offerings.
We've seen a terrific response from the guests it's something that we call Made to Matter a collection of items that are on trend for our Target guest feature a number of exclusive items that Target from manufacturers that are in the organic and natural space that can bring great innovation gluten-free on-trend products to our guests.
And we certainly recognize that we have an opportunity to connect with the guests in a different way when it comes to food.
But you shouldn't expect us to deemphasize those categories.
That's not the point.
We're not streamlining our food offering but we are stepping back and really listening to the guest making sure we curate on their behalf the right items that are uniquely Target that meet the needs of our guests in the food categories.
So a lot more to come as we talk about this in the first quarter but to make sure we're really clear we're not streamlining food.
We're not de-emphasizing food we're not walking away from food.
But we certainly want to make sure we put our mark on the food category with items that are uniquely Target that are right for our guests that are on trend and you should certainly expect to see more natural organic offerings in that space because the Target guest has asked for them.
Okay that's very helpful.
And you think you can manage the return profile on that space to certainly meet the hurdle lights that you expect from it? We would certainly expect to see that and Kathee talked about some of the changes we're seeing in mix.
And certainly when we talk about natural organic when we talk about some of these unique items they tend to have a higher average unit rank.
So you should expect to see some mix changes but importantly food is an important part of our future.
We're not going to deemphasize the category we're not looking to take away space.
We want it to be more impactful more on trend and we want to fill it with items that the Target guest is looking for.
Okay that's very helpful.
And good luck with the rest of the holiday.
Thank you appreciate it.
That concludes Target's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 25 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Sorry about the technical difficulties that delayed us a couple minutes there.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan Chief Financial Officer; and Kathee Tesija Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer.
This morning Brian will discuss our fourth quarter performance and our priorities going forward.
Then Kathee will provide insight in the holiday and fourth quarter results across our merchandise categories.
And finally John will provide more detail on our fourth quarter and full year financial performance.
Following their remarks we will open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we are joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John and I will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Also in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
A reconciliation to our GAAP EPS is included in this morning’s press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
Finally given that we are hosting our financial community meeting in New York next week.
Our remarks today will focus on Target’s fourth quarter performance and our guidance for the first quarter of 2015.
At next week’s meeting we will describe in detail our longer term expectations including full year 2015 financial performance.
As a result we are shortening today’s call to 45 minutes and will look forward to spending another two-and-half hours with all of you next week.
With that I’ll turn it over to Brian for his comments on the fourth quarter and holiday season.
Brian? Thanks John and good morning to all of you.
I appreciate your patients this morning.
We are very pleased with our fourth quarter financial results which we announced earlier this morning.
Our fourth quarter adjusted EPS of $1.50 was 14.9% higher than last year and above the high end of the updated range we provided in our January 15 press release.
Our fourth quarter comparable sales increase of 3.8% was also stronger than the updated guidance we provided in January as we saw unexpected strength in our store channel sales in the last two weeks of the quarter.
And of course we look back at our point of view going into the fourth quarter comparable sales growth turned out to be nearly double our original expectation.
As our combination of products promotions holiday marketing fulfillment capabilities and in-store execution drove profitable growth in an intensely promotional environment.
We are pleased that comps in all three months of the quarter were positive.
And November strength was particularly notable given that we were analyzing a strong increase in November 2013.
We are also pleased that traffic was the primary driver of our fourth quarter growth as well as the fact that the digital channel growth contributed nearly a full percentage point to our fourth quarter comparable sales increase.
Our fourth quarter gross margin performance was also very strong with a favorable mix reflecting strength in signature categories.
Our merchant teams did an outstanding job managing inventory flow benefiting both in stock and gross margin which was particularly challenging this quarter in light of the slowdown in productivity at the West Coast ports.
Once again our store team did an outstanding job of managing costs in the fourth quarter delivering productivity improvements along with outstanding service to our guest.
As I’ve mentioned to many of you one of our priorities going forward is to harness best practices from our stores and apply them to the rest of the organization to modernize the way we work and derive productivity improvements or maintaining quality and everything we do.
If we look back at the full year it’s clear that 2014 was a year of transition in which we begin to lay the foundation for the transformation we will accomplish in the next few years.
A year ago we were in the recovery mode working to repair guest relationships following the data breach while we undertook an assessment of the long-term prospects for our Canadian business.
Fast forward to today and we’ve ended the year with the data breached fully behind us and that we’ve made tough decision to execute the Canadian business.
Our team is focused and aligned on five priorities I outlined in our third quarter call.
The first priority is to drive industry leading digital sales growth.
As we build the capabilities become a leading omnichannel retailer.
Our digital growth led the industry in 2014 and we’re working to build on that success in 2015 and beyond.
Our second priority is to clearly define roles for each of our merchandise categories and build appropriate plans for each of them.
While we’re in the early stages of this journey I’m pleased with our efforts to invest in the growth of our signature categories like style baby kids and wellness.
These are the categories we’re most famous for and our guest has asked us to lead with them in the years ahead.
Beyond these signature categories we’re defining appropriate roles for each of our categories.
And we’ll invest in them appropriately to ensure we’re providing our guests convenience through a differentiated inspirational and one-stop shopping experience.
Our third priority is to become much more localized in the assortment and experience we provide in our stores and more personalized in our digital interaction with our guest.
We are in the very early stage of these efforts and we see huge opportunity ahead of us.
So we’re investing these capabilities we’ll need to make progress on this priority over the next few years.
Our fourth priority is to build and test new formats that will help us better serve our guests over time.
We’re seeing strong financial results from our eight City Target stores and we’ve seen very strong initial performance in the test of our first Target Express location which opened here in the Twin Cities last August.
In 2015 of the 15 new stores we’re planning to open more than half of these are new formats with eight additional express stores and a new City Target set to open in Boston next to Fenway Park.
And finally we’re committed to reducing complexity and controlling costs in order to fuel our investments and the growth priorities I’ve just outlined.
As mentioned earlier our stores have been leading the way in these efforts.
So the next few years we are looking for opportunities outside our stores become more agile move faster gain scale efficiencies in the way we work.
We believe meaningful opportunities exist.
And the leadership team is committed to moving decisively.
The modernized way we work and create the capacity we will need to invest in the priorities that will drive growth and return on invested capital.
At our meeting with you next week we are looking forward to providing you more specific on how we’re planning to advance these five priorities while providing insight in how our plans will translate in the financial results both this year and over the long-term.
Our plan for the day is as follows I’ll lead off the day by providing details on our strategic priorities our approach to growth and the principles guiding our leadership team as we work to deliver on these priorities.
Then John will provide more detail on our financial expectations for each line of the P&amp;L going forward.
And he will provide full year guidance for 2015 financial results from continuing operations reflecting our plan to grow earnings per share this year.
Casey Carl will follow with details on our digital progress and his plans to transform the organization by developing new capabilities that will support our growth control cost and recapture the innovated spirit that’s part of the company’s DNA.
Then Kathee Tesija will provide more insights into our core guests and our plan to develop products experience and formats to serve those guests over time.
And then Jeff Jones will provide insight into the guest relationship with the Target brand and his team’s work to modernize our marketing and the way we interact with today’s core guest.
Finally we’ll end with a Q&amp;A session.
We are looking forward to the opportunity to share these plans with you next week and we’re confident that we can build on the early momentum we’ve seen over the last few quarters.
We have a fantastic foundation to build on with a great brand loyal guests and an outstanding team.
And we are committed to maintaining our focus on our key priorities and making the tough decisions to position Target for long-term success.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Kathee to recap our fourth quarter and holiday season performance.
Kathee? Thanks Brian.
Across the U.S.
retail landscape this year’s holiday shopping season began earlier and ended later than ever before.
This lengthening of the season reinforced a pattern we’ve seen for well over a decade where we saw the strongest sales in the early and late portions of the season and experienced a period of softness in the middle.
Specifically throughout November our comparable sales performance including the Black Friday weekend was very strong on both the one-year and two-year basis driven by strong promotions throughout the month combined with in-store events and Cartwheel daily deals.
In December following the characteristic lull that we have seen for more than a decade we saw a very strong surge in traffic and sales in the days leading up to and after Christmas.
And in January we continue to see unexpected strong results throughout the month.
As Brian mentioned we saw particularly strong trends in fourth quarter sales in our signature categories.
Specifically healthcare beauty apparel and home all grew faster than our overall sales.
Within apparel results were strongest in baby and kid and home comps were led by domestics and seasonal items.
In hard lines our toy category had a fantastic quarter recording a double-digit increase in comparable sales driven by a strong line up of Target exclusive items throughout the assortment.
Average retails were up across all of our categories as guests were trading up within assortments and we saw strong regular price sell-throughs in seasonal and markdown sensitive categories.
Digital channel growth also contributed to the growth in the average retail particularly in home and apparel both of which saw digital channel penetration growth of more than a percentage point in the fourth quarter.
Throughout the holiday season we were very pleased with the performance of our fourth quarter limited time partnerships with TOMS and Faribault Woolen Mill.
Guests responded to the stories behind these brands and were delighted by the combination of quality and price we could deliver.
I already mentioned the great quarter in toys which we supported this year with the launch of our Kid’s Wish List app.
A fun interactive way for kids to let their families know which gifts were at the top of their list.
We saw strong guest engagement with this new app as nearly half the families who used it created a list for two or more kids.
And by the end of the season thousands of new target.com accounts had been created by Wish List users.
Our attention getting offer to ship all digital orders for free during the holiday season provided compelling value and convenience to our guests.
The offer created a surge in traffic and conversion on both our conventional site and mobile which as expected was partially offset by a moderate decline in average transaction size.
Because our guest responded so well to this holiday promotion.
We were excited earlier this week to announce that going forward we are reducing the order threshold for free shipping from $50 to $25 with virtually no exclusions.
This new minimum is among the most compelling offers in digital retailing putting us ahead of many of our key competitors.
In our digital channel for the fourth quarter overall we saw a high single-digit increase in visits driven entirely by growth in mobile which includes both tablets and smartphones.
Orders were up well over 50% driven by very strong conversion increases on both the conventional site and mobile.
Mobile is becoming increasingly important to all digital retailers and given the profile of our guests it’s particularly important for Target as mobile accounted for more than 40% of our digital orders in the fourth quarter.
And notably on Black Friday 10% of our iPhone app revenue was from guests purchasing on their phone while they were simultaneously shopping one of our stores.
Our flexible fulfillment efforts play a key role in supporting our digital growth and we’re pleased with results of our store pickup program and our recent roll out of ship-from-store capability.
This is the second holiday season in which we’ve offered store pickup.
And since last year we’ve added more dry grocery items extended the pickup window from two days to four days and we’ve begun testing dedicated parking spots.
This year we had more than 400 000 store pickup orders on the Black Friday week alone.
And they accounted for half of our digital traffic in the last four days leading up to Christmas.
For the year in total 84% of store pickup orders where picked on time and 35% of the time guests who picked up a digital order also shopped the store on the same visit.
This is our first holiday season with ship-from-store capabilities having rolled out to a 139 stores at the end of the third quarter.
This capability allows us to ship more than 60 000 items directly from stores to our guest’s front doors dramatically cutting shipping times while reducing our shipping costs.
We were pleased with the ability of this initial group of stores to handle the shipments from their back rooms which peaked in the last week of November.
And importantly this capability allowed us to continue to fulfill holiday orders late in the season for items which were already sold through in our fulfillment centers but still available in our stores allowing us to capture incremental sales.
Before I move to our plans going forward I want to pause and discuss the situation at the West Coast ports.
As you know the slow down at these ports began several months ago and our fourth quarter performance clearly demonstrates that our team was effective in handling this slow down by rerouting expediting and preordering inventory to support in stock.
We were very pleased with last weekend’s news that a tentative agreement had been reached but what we know it will be sometime before the backlog at these ports will be fully eliminated.
In the mean time we have contingency plans to continue to work around potential issues.
But at times we may encounter periods of light inventory in some assortments.
Now I want to give you a few highlights of our plans going forward and of course we will have much more to cover with you next week.
Last year we began to test and roll out a variety of store presentation innovations to elevate the shopping experience and differentiate our brand based on the guest response to these changes we’re planning to accelerate our roll out in 2015.
For example following the addition of Mannequins at the apparel floor pad in more than 600 stores last fall we are planning to roll them out to another 400 stores this quarter.
And based on the guest response to our enhanced entertainment and electronics experience which is currently in 42 stores we plan to roll this environment out to another 275 stores this year.
In home we have begun testing highly inspirational vignettes to show product in lifestyle settings which we’re rolling out to another 15 stores this quarter.
Farther back in the testing phase we are looking at innovations to bring even more fun to our toy area.
With easier navigation interactive experiences larger than life displays and floor graphics.
We’re always looking for creative platforms to engage guests in new ways that are meaningful to them.
Snapchat provides a fun channel for us to quickly share exclusive behind the scenes content with our guests that they can’t get anywhere else.
If you were one get anywhere else.
If you were one of the fans who witnessed Target’s Snapchat debut you caught a glimpse of the first story which teased our history- making Grammy commercial with Imagine Dragons to announce the Target exclusive version of their new album containing four exclusive bonus tracks.
Jeff will have more to say about this groundbreaking Grammy moment at our meeting next week.
Guests are excited about the recent launch of our new plus-sized brand Ava &amp; Viv which launched earlier this month.
Designed by our own product design and development team Ava &amp; Viv feature stylish basics along with trend-driven statement pieces.
Similar to Target’s other apparel lines Ava &amp; Viv will be updated monthly with prices ranging from $10 to $80.
And the anticipation is building for our upcoming partnership with Lilly Pulitzer.
With a modern interpretation of the American resort wear brand’s exuberant prints and patterns the limited edition Lilly Pulitzer for Target collection features 15 exclusive prints which are original works of art created by Lilly Pulitzer artists specifically for this modern collaboration.
Available exclusively at all Target stores in the U.S.
And on target.com beginning April 19 250-piece collection includes apparel accessories and shoes for women and girls as well as home accents outdoor entertaining accessories beach gear travel essentials and more.
And finally as Brian mentioned wellness is one of the signature categories in which we’re investing to differentiate our brand and our assortment from competition.
We have a huge opportunity in this space because our guests have told us it’s particularly important to them.
Specifically nearly every household that shops at Target buys natural and organic products and more than half of them indicate that they’d prefer to purchase natural and organic products when available.
These guest insights are reinforced by their behavior in our stores.
While overall sales in the natural and organic industry are growing rapidly sales of these categories at Target are growing even faster outpacing the industry by 50% in 2014.
The Made to Matter collection remains one of the most prominent and active examples of Target’s focus on wellness.
Offering guests a selection of natural organic and sustainable products across multiple categories.
In 2014 sales of the brands featured in our Made to Matter collection grew twice as fast at Target than they did elsewhere in the market.
In 2015 we’ll reinforce our commitment to newness and better for you choices with a refreshed Made to Matter hand picked by Target collection.
This year’s collection will double in size compared to last year delivering more than 200 new and exclusive products from 31 leading and upcoming brands.
As we look ahead to the New Year our priorities in merchandising are clear.
We will build appropriate plans for each of our categories based on the role they play in supporting our brand and delivering a superior shopping experience.
In our signature categories we will invest in product development marketing fixtures and store service to elevate and differentiate both the assortments and the shopping experience.
Fully delivering on our Expect More Pay Less brand promise our fourth quarter results demonstrate that we are making some early progress in this work and we are dedicated to moving much faster in this transformation in 2015.
Now I’ll turn it over to John who will share his insights on our fourth- quarter financial performance and our outlook for first quarter 2015.
John? Thanks Kathee.
Our first quarter financial results were stronger than expected driven by better than expected sales performance in the U.S.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.50 was better than the high-end of the guidance provided in our January 15 update and about $0.11 better than our expectations for U.S.
performance at the beginning of the quarter.
Fourth quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations was $1.49 about $0.01 lower than adjusted EPS driven by a combined $0.02 of dilution from the reduction of the beneficial interest asset combined with net data breach expenses.
Partially offset by the benefit from the resolution of income tax matters.
Fourth-quarter GAAP EPS losses of $4.10 reflected $5.59 in losses from discontinued Canadian operations.
Our fourth quarter comparable sales increase of 3.8% was above the guidance of around 3% that we provided in our January update and nearly double the 2% growth we expected at the beginning of the quarter.
More than all of the sales outperformance in the last few weeks of the quarter was in our stores as digital channel sales came in a bit softer than expected in those last few weeks reflecting a slowdown in demand sales growth as we annualized over promotions from a year ago combined with returns which came in somewhat higher than expected.
Even so digital channel sales increased a robust 36% in the fourth quarter on top of a very strong increase in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And as Brian mentioned digital channel growth delivered about 90 basis points of our fourth quarter comparable sales increase up from a 60 basis point contribution in the third quarter.
U.S.
REDcard Penetration of 21.1% was about 20 basis points ahead of last of year and inline with our expectations.
As I mentioned in last quarter a strong trend in new accounts we believe this quarter represented a trough in penetration growth.
And we expect to see a moderate reacceleration in penetration growth in 2015.
This growth should benefit later in the year from the introduction of chip and pin technology for all of our REDcards and the change over to MasterCard on our legacy co-branded Credit Card program.
Our fourth quarter EBITDA margin rate of 9.9% was so much stronger than expected driven by very strong gross margin rate performance partially offset by a small increase in our SG&amp;A expense rate.
Specifically our fourth gross margin rate of 28.5% was nearly a percentage point higher than a year ago and the strongest fourth quarter performance we’ve seen since 2010.
This year’s rate benefited from a favorable mix of sales growth in our signature categories combined with better markdown rates as we annualized last year’s clearance and promotional activity following the announcement of the data breach.
I want to pause here and comment on our inventory position at the end of the quarter which was about 6% higher than last year.
This increase was intentional and reflects two separate decisions.
First in the last six months we’ve chosen to increase our inventory in commodity categories to enhance in stocks in these frequency driving businesses.
And second we are ahead in some import categories in light of the slow down at the West Coast Ports.
Bottom line the inventory increase as result of specific decisions we’ve made and we feel very good about our overall inventory level as we enter the new fiscal year.
Getting back to the fourth quarter P&amp;L.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we benefited from productivity improvements in the stores and overall leverage on pay in benefits.
Offset by higher marketing technology and incentive expense rates compared with last year.
Altogether our fourth quarter SG&amp;A expense rate was about 20 basis points higher than last year.
Moving to consolidated metrics fourth quarter interest expense was up about 6% from last year and we paid $330 million in dividends in the quarter an increase of 22% over last year.
As expected we didn’t repurchase any shares in the fourth quarter.
However as we discussed in our January update the exit from the Canadian market will meaningfully improve our credit metrics going forward.
And provided the wind down of our Canadian operations continues to push as planned we will be in a position to revisit the possibility of share repurchase later in 2015.
As always I will reiterate that we will only resume repurchase activity if we believe it can be accomplished within the limits of our current investment grade credit ratings.
As we look back at full year performance in the U.S.
our 2014 adjusted EPS of $4.27 was down slightly from $4.38 in 2013 driven by early year challenges as we recovered from the data breach.
However the healing of our business has been evident in the progression of our financial results throughout the year.
Specifically comparable sales digital channel growth and year-over-year gross margin rate performance all improved as we moved throughout 2014.
And expenses remained well controlled throughout the year.
Next week at our meeting with you in New York we will outline in detail our plans to build on this early momentum over the next few years.
Before I turn to the outlook for the first quarter of 2015 I want to cover a small change to our adjusted EPS reporting which we present in order to reflect the results of operations from what is now a single segment business.
Given that we have now amortized $151 million or two-thirds of the original value of the beneficial the beneficial interest asset related to the 2013 sale of our credit card receivables portfolio beginning in 2015 we will no longer remove the amortization of the beneficial interest from our adjusted EPS calculation.
This is because both the quarterly amortization amounts and the year-over-year changes in those amounts are expected to be immaterial going forward.
And therefore we believe our reporting will be streamlined be streamlined if we make this change.
In our reporting throughout 2015 prior year adjusted EPS results will also reflect this change to ensure consistency for comparison purposes.
With that let’s move to our outlook for the first quarter.
We expect our comparable sales to increase about 2% driven by an increase in digital channel sales of 30% or more combined with the modest growth in store channel sales.
While it’s still early in the quarter our results for the first few weeks of February are consistent with that forecast.
On our first quarter sales we expect our gross margin rate to improve 40 basis points to 50 basis points from last year.
As we annualize last year’s very intense promotions which we used to recapture traffic coming out of the data breach.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we expect our first quarter rate to be flat to down slightly from a year ago.
As we expect that the benefit from store productivity improvements will be offset by higher marketing and technology expense rates compared with last year.
We expect our D&amp;A expense rate to be about 10 basis points higher than last year reflecting the impact of continued investments in technology to support our digital and flexible fulfillment efforts.
Altogether we expect an improvement in our first quarter EBIT margin of 30 basis points to 40 basis points above last year.
First quarter interest expense should be approximately flat to last year.
And tax expense is expected to be about $15 million higher than last year reflecting improved profitability and a higher consolidated tax rate compared with a year ago.
Altogether these expectations would lead to first quarter adjusted EPS representing results of continuing operations in our single segment business of $0.95 to $1.05 compared with $0.92 year ago.
As John mentioned at the beginning of the call I’m going to wait till next week’s Financial Community meeting to provide specific guidance for full-year 2015 earnings growth as well as our expected financial algorithm over the longer term.
This will allow us to present our financial outlook in the full context of our specific business plans which reflect necessary investments to accelerate growth and build capabilities along with the opportunity to reduce costs over time providing fuel to fund those investments.
With that we’ll conclude today’s prepared remarks.
Now Brian Kathee and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Simeon Gutman from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Good morning.
It’s Simeon Gutman.
First question on gross margin for John or for Brian it was quite solid in the fourth quarter last year you had a little pressure but not nearly as much as I guess we all expected give some of the discounting.
So can you talk about what drove the expansion year-over-year in this year’s fourth quarter? Sure I’ll start and I’m sure Kathee will jump in.
I think overall what you observe is there’s strictly some savings relative to last year with clearance activity that went on but I think much more important to that is you saw the acceleration of the signature categories.
Home apparel style kids.
Many of those with margin rates well in excess of our average margin rate and I think for the first time Kathee and I couldn’t even remember the last time where both home and apparel outcome of the company.
So we’ve really saw a very strong mix in the quarter delivered by the product in the stores.
Yes on top of the mix I would also say that regular price sell-through was very high.
So less on clearance on markdown and more on full retail and which also contributed.
Okay.
And just one follow-up I’m sure this will get addressed next week but can you just tell us what the average wage for full-time associates and/or part-time associates are at Target? You know we don’t disclose the average wage for our team members.
What I’d tell you is the store’s team has always been appointed differentiation for Target and we’ve always prided ourselves and believe we have the best team in retail.
So very focused on ensuring we have competitive wages and that we’re developing our team members.
We’re all the time assessing the marketplace to determine competitive wages and making adjustments and we feel very confident that we’ll be paying the teams appropriately.
I think importantly if you look at our team leaders 60% of them came from team members.
So development is a really big part of what we offer to as they progress.
Overall as we look at some of the announcements that have been in the marketplace and the minimum wage legislation act really hasn’t changed our view of the quarter or the year really at all and won’t be material changes to us.
Okay.
I’m sure we’re going to receive this question again next week but to John’s point and our goal is to make sure we have the very best team in retail.
And we’re going to continue to invest in their development and make sure that from a marketplace standpoint we’re very competitive with the wages we provide.
So I’ve been very pleased to learn that over 60% of our team leaders actually started as part-time hourly employees.
That development is critically important.
It allows us to attract terrific team members.
And as John stated we do not expect to see any material change next year.
Okay.
Thanks.
See you next week.
Your next question is from Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks for taking my question.
I want to follow up on that last comment around wages.
Brian could you just provide some context around how much opportunity you think there is to reduce complexity and improve efficiency in case you needed to respond to wages or you wanted to respond? Well it’s certainly going to be an area that we’ll highlight next week.
I think you’ve captured it really really well.
Our focus right now throughout the organization is to reduce complexity simplify the way we work the way each and every day continue to empower our to make the right decisions that are going to impact the business.
We want to create an organization that’s much more agile that moves with much increased pace as we go forward.
And we deliver the right innovation and product that our guest is looking for.
So it is a significant area of focus for us.
We’re going to talk about it in great detail.
But we think it’s going to be a very important part of our strategy going forward is going to fuel the key growth priorities that we’ve been talking about we’ll go through in great detail next week.
But our goal is to make sure we eliminate complexity at Target we simplify our operating model we empower our team members and create an environment where we’re agile we’re taking advantage of marketplace opportunities and we’re bringing products and services to market that respond to the needs of our guest.
Thanks.
And just a quick follow-up on the higher online return rates.
Do you think that’s primarily a function of the free shipping offer? Is it more prevalent in certain categories? And is it related at all to error rates? Actually the return rates were higher than our expectation but they were essentially right on last year.
We had seen some improvement throughout most of the year and they basically just returned to last year so not a material change just a little bit different than our expectation for the last couple weeks.
Understood.
Thanks so much.
Your next question is from Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
The first thing I wanted to poke at was frequency.
Brian you mentioned that you were pleased with the frequency going up in the quarter.
Is that a focus for the company to drive frequency to the stores and kind of maybe as preview – how do you get it done? Scott while there’s certainly a number of critically important metrics as we look at the business going forward I can tell you that the entire leadership team is prioritized one increasing traffic to our stores and two visits to our site.
Those are critically important as we go forward.
So we’re going to do that by executing many of the priorities that we outlined today.
We certainly want to make sure we’re building the right digital and importantly mobile capabilities that drive greater visits to our site and build greater engagement with our guests.
Not only when they’re shopping at home but also when they’re shopping inside of our stores.
And Cartwheel is a great example of how we’ve used digital to drive greater engagement.
I’m really pleased and Kathee highlighted the fact that our signature categories drove our growth in the fourth quarter.
And it’s critically important that while we’re in the early stages we’re already seeing the guests react well to our focus on style on baby and kids and importantly wellness.
And the fact that healthcare and beauty and home and apparel outpaced our overall performance in the fourth quarter is a sign that we’re connecting with the guest and we’re certainly driving more of the traffic because of these great new offerings in store.
So our focus on elevating signature categories we think brings our guest back to Target more often.
They’re going to be coming back in to see what’s new.
And Kathee and her team have a great lineup in 2015 of new exciting products coupled with an improvement in our in-store experience and merchandising.
So those elements are critically important.
We think localization allows us to build a more meaningful relationship with the guest which will result in more traffic and more visits and certainly as we expand our smaller formats.
Both City Target and Target Express it’s a way for us to engage the guest in these urban settings that are critically important.
So all those are focused on making sure we build greater engagement but the metrics that are going to be important for us is to ensure it results in more traffic like it did in the fourth quarter and more visits to our site.
So we’re pleased with Q4.
Lots of work in front of us.
But I felt very good as did the entire leadership team that our comp increase of 3.8% in the fourth quarter was primarily driven by traffic.
And our industry leading growth in digital was certainly going to be fueled by more visits and better conversion from our site.
That’s perfect.
And I just had one quick follow-up.
I have a ton of questions but I’ll just do one quick follow-up to what you said Brian.
You did mention – although Kathee did.
She mentioned food.
How do you think of food in context to traffic? Then I’ll yield.
Thank you.
Scott I think you already know the answer to that and we’re going to talk about this specifically next week.
Food is very important to our guests.
And they’ve confirmed that with us as we’ve gone back and researched the food category through the eyes of the guest recently.
We all know food trips drive traffic.
And we want to make sure we compliment our signature categories with guests that are coming to us for the great food products we can curate.
We recognize we have a lot of work to do in food.
And Kathee and I were recently out in the market together.
We spent several days visiting our stores looking at competitive food retailers as we begin to build our reinvention plans for food.
But as Kathee will talk about next week we recognize we need to make changes to our assortment Made to Matter and some of the changes we’re making right now in our assortment that deliver more organic natural gluten-free items critically important to the guest.
And we also recognize we have to change the in-store experience and really make sure our food and grocery merchandising compliments the great experience we create at Target.
So a critically important area of opportunity.
We won’t get there overnight.
It will be a multi-year transition.
But food is going to play a very important role in complimenting our other signature categories and making sure we drive traffic to our stores in to our site.
Thanks that was great answer.
Appreciated.
Scott thanks.
Hopefully we will see you next week.
Definitely.
Looking forward to it.
Your next question is from Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
If you could frame some of the marketing and technology spending in the fourth quarter just let us know what that was directed towards.
I know you’re holding back to some degree on 2015 guidance but were some of those initiatives that you expect to persist through the upcoming year? Matt we’ll certainly go through much more of this next week.
I think if you were to look at the changes we made from a marketing standpoint in the fourth quarter the big change would have been a significant increase in our digital support of our brand.
So as we continue to make sure we’re connecting with our guests we are connecting with them the way they are looking to connect with the Target brand digital is going to play an increasingly important role.
And we were very pleased with our overall marketing in the fourth quarter.
We had some outstanding creative on air.
It received very positive response from the guest.
And we complimented that with a very strong digital campaign.
So I felt and the team felt very good about the progress we made from a marketing standpoint in the fourth quarter.
We had created that broke through the clutter connected with our guest – drove traffic to our stores.
We complimented that with really impactful digital and online communication and tied that back in with great in-store marketing.
So you’ll see more of that as we go forward in to 2015 and we will take you through a lot more of the investments and the plans we have when we see you next week.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Sean Naughton from Piper Jaffray.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on the food question and then specifically inside of the fresh component of the business.
This was supposed to be a big part of driving transactions to the store over the long-term.
Could you just maybe give us a little bit on where Target is with its fresh offering today? How is it evolving? And are you happy with the performance with the sales and margins on this segment of business? Yeah Sean we are going to talk about food in much more depth next week but fresh is a very important part of food not only traffic and number of trips for our guests but just in terms of what’s important to them in terms of wellness.
Fresh food plays a very important part.
And as Brian said we’ve got a lot of work to do here.
So both in Super Target as well as in P Fresh format and it centers around our assortment how fresh the product is and ways that we can improve upon that the presentation showing abundance in that great product.
So we have a lot of work to do but critically important to us because our guest has said they want to be able to eat better both natural and organic.
We see it in our results today and we know that there is much much more opportunity.
Okay then maybe as a follow up here just on the inflation front can you just give us an idea of how inflation trended maybe across the store in the quarter and your expectations kind of in near and medium term? Thank you.
Sure lots of variability across categories as always the case.
We saw some inflation in food.
We saw a lot of deflation in electronics like we always do but if you look at across the entirety of our business essentially flat to last year.
So no net impact to the business from inflation in aggregate but as I’ve said lots of variability within that.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Michael Lasser from UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
As you look back at the fourth quarter can you do mention what you think – how the performance was driven by your own initiatives the easy comparison versus last year? And just an improving macro environment due in part to the lower fuel prices.
If there’s any way you could potentially quantify that I think it would be really helpful.
Michael let me start.
I’ll let Kathee and John jump in.
I think you’ve certainly identify some of the big levers.
And I think as we sit here today we’ve recognize that the consumer confidence is certainly improved.
Lower gas prices certainly helping the industry overall.
We did have some favorable overlaps certainly as we overlap the breach.
But I also think we made significant strides from a merchandising standpoint from a marketing standpoint and we continue to deliver great execution and service inside the stores.
And when you look at the two years stacks we had a very challenging November a very strong November from 2013 that we overlapped and saw growth.
And that to me it was a sign that not only was the consumer healthier but they were choosing to spend their dollars in Target stores.
And they came back in December as Kathee alluded to we had a very strong close to the holiday season.
But importantly we felt really good about traffic and our performance in January particularly in the last two weeks of the quarter.
So a combination of – we certainly did have some issues from last year that we’re overlapping.
The consumer we do believe is healthier.
And we’re pleased that they’re spending in our stores both in our stores and online.
But I also think we made significant strides from a merchandising standpoint.
We had terrific marketing and a great digital connection with our guest.
We were able to leverage both an improved in-store experience the convenience of shopping online and picking up in store and we had industry leading online sales and we leveraged our stores to help make sure that we fulfill the needs of our guest.
So I think the combination of all those elements added up to a very solid quarter.
Okay thanks for that.
Please go ahead Kathee.
The only thing that I’d add to that is just that a lot of that focus came in our signature categories which is why you saw our growth there in particular.
Major investment in product both quality as well as aesthetic and number of SKUs newness that we brought to the market.
The marketing reinforce that and that was very well received by our guests.
And then coupled with presentation both online with enhancements in app and our desktop site and the presentation in our store driven by focus on signature categories really helped drive our growth.
Thanks that’s helpful.
The follow up question I had is are there any particular call outs you can offer about the strength in the last two weeks of the quarter? It just strikes as interesting and we’re curious about what drove that strength.
Thank you.
I think we continue to see gift card redemption.
We intentionally – we had a significant gift card promotion on Black Friday that was very successful.
We saw all of those come back in January.
I think that helped.
And we saw continued strength in the product in home and apparel very strong sales in home and apparel and I think that was an element of it as well.
I think it’s a combination of both.
And our wellness business is healthy as we turn the corner in to the New Year we saw that continue.
So that the trade up that we had seen during Christmas.
We saw continuing in to January which is just guest choice for products in our discretionary categories.
I think lots of things drove it.
Michael I think well summarized I’d put four elements on the list.
John talked about gift cards.
I think that was very important.
And we certainly saw our guest come back to Target with gift cards after the holidays and through January.
Our focus on wellness certainly well received by the guest.
We had great newness in our stores to start the New Year.
And our store teams did a terrific job of recovering after the holidays.
And we offered our guests a very strong in-store shopping experience.
So a lot of the basics.
But our gift card plans were well executed.
We saw the guests come back in January.
Our focus on wellness that important signature category well received.
We brought newness into the stores to start the year.
And our store teams did a terrific job of recovering after a very busy Christmas holiday season.
Thank you so much I appreciate it.
Thank you.
I think we’ve got time for one more question today.
Your next question is from Greg Melich from Evercore ISI.
That’s great.
Thanks.
I had a couple of follow-ups.
It would be great to know – you said the signature categories did well.
Do you have the actual numbers like which ones were better by category for food and wellness et cetera? Well health and beauty were both very strong.
In the health categories that spread across many categories.
I talked about Made to Mat ter.
I talked about better for you product in food.
But it was also in our health business.
And our style business both beauty was strong as well as in apparel it was driven really by kids and by babies.
And in home it was domestics and seasonal product.
Then in kids we had incredible season in toys with a double-digit comp.
We really were pleased with the overall holiday.
Greg as we mentioned earlier in the call wellness home apparel all comped in excess of the 3.8 we reported for the quarter so strength across all those categories.
And to win in the fourth quarter you have to win in toys.
Well our team won in toys and showing a double-digit comp was critically important.
So we felt very good about the early progress in those signature categories.
And we’ll build off of that momentum as we go into 2015.
And maybe to follow-up on that momentum and seeing the traffic get back to up 3%.
When you look after your first quarter that 2% expectation do you expect traffic to be half of that comp or positive in the first quarter? Or what was built in your expectation? I think Brian hit on in earlier right.
We continue to drive for positive traffic.
I think positive in the store and growing digital online and that’s part of our guidance.
Great.
And then John may be a quick follow-up on SG&amp;A it looked it and I could be backing the math out wrong here but SG&amp;A dollars in the fourth quarter accelerated to maybe 4% or 5% growth.
Was there anything that caused that in particular? Yeah I think like we said a little bit of deleveraging.
There was some marketing expense we talked about in November moved from November into – or from Q3 into Q4.
As Brian said we made some investments in marketing.
The other elements were ongoing all year.
We had some technology.
The thing that really drove a lot of it relative to the other quarters was incentive expense.
We clearly out delivered our expectations and that will be reflected in our incentive expense.
Thanks for joining us today.
That’s going to conclude our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
We appreciate everyone’s participation today and we really look forward to seeing you next week in New York City so thank you again.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conference call.
Thank you for participating at this time.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday May 20 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan Chief Financial Officer; and Kathee Tesija Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer.
This morning Brian will discuss our first quarter performance and priorities going forward then Kathee will provide insights into our first quarter results across our merchandise category and plans for the second quarter and beyond and finally John will provide more detail on our first quarter financial performance and expectations for the second quarter and the remainder of the year.
Following the remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following this conference call John and I will be available throughout the day to answer any follow up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Also in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure and return on invested capital which is a ratio based on GAAP information with the exception of adjustments made to capitalized operating leases.
Reconciliations to our GAAP EPS and to our GAAP total rent expense are included in this morning's press release posted on our Investor Relations website.
With that I'll turn it over to Brian for his perspective on our first quarter performance.
Brian? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John and good morning to all of you.
We're very pleased with our first quarter financial results which we announced earlier this morning.
Our first quarter adjusted EPS of $1.10 is 19.6% higher than last year and $0.05 better than the high-end of the range we provided at the beginning of the quarter.
Comp sales increased 2.3% in the quarter a bit ahead of our expectation.
This increase was driven by a healthy balance of growth in both traffic and average ticket.
First quarter digital sales increased 38% over last year driven by higher traffic and a substantial increase in conversion.
Digital growth contributed 80 basis points to our comp sales increase in the first quarter.
While we enjoyed a healthy pace of sales throughout the first quarter we saw particularly strong results in March as weather warmed across many parts of the country and Easter timing moved seasonal sales into the month.
In April we were thrilled with the overwhelming demand for items from our collaboration with Lilly Pulitzer with most of the collection selling out in the first few days.
We were disappointed however that our digital channels were not able to properly accommodate the surge in traffic at the time of the launch and the team is working to address root causes and learn from the experience as we prepare for holiday season peak later this year.
The first quarter saw a meaningful increase in our gross margin rate as we cycled over a promotional first quarter of 2014 and we benefited from very strong mix of sales in our signature categories this year both in stores and online.
First quarter comp sales in signature categories grew more than twice as fast as our comparable sales overall and mix in our digital channels was even stronger.
Specifically about two-thirds of our first quarter digital sales increase was driven by growth in Home and Apparel.
Kathee will provide more detail on category performance in a few minutes.
Once again our stores did a great job controlling costs this quarter while outside of the stores we continued to move to a leaner more agile way of working.
During the first quarter we recorded restructuring charges related to head count reductions at our headquarters.
While these reductions were very difficult for all of us I strongly believe they were a necessary step to remove roadblocks which were preventing us from moving more quickly and responsively to the guests' needs.
I want to thank the team for their perseverance during this time of significant transition.
I continue to admire the energy they bring to work every single day.
As you know we are committed to returning cash to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchase over time and I'm very pleased that this quarter we began returning cash through share repurchase for the first time in nearly two years.
This change reflects the improving health of our U.S.
business along with the cash flow benefit of our fourth quarter decision to discontinue operations in Canada.
For several quarters now I've been talking about the five priorities we're focused on as a leadership team: becoming a leader in delivering shopping on demand for our guests; establishing clear roles in our merchandising categories with particular focus on growing our signature categories Style Baby Kids and Wellness; developing capabilities to become more localized in our store experience and more personalized in our digital interaction with guests; continue to develop and test urban formats like CityTarget and TargetExpress; and finally transforming the way we work to create capacity to invest appropriately in the growth initiatives I just described.
I strongly believe if we make progress on these five priorities over the next few years Target will deliver outstanding financial results and become an even stronger retailer.
While we're at the early stages I'm encouraged with signs of progress on these efforts.
Specifically our strong mix of first quarter sales in signature categories demonstrates the value of the work to define category roles.
We continue to rollout upgraded fixtures in Apparel Beauty Baby and Home while investing in Wellness with programs like Made to Matter.
Our buying teams are focused on delivering enhanced newness quality and value to our guests and we're communicating this renewed focus in both traditional and digital channels.
Our digital sales growth of nearly 40% on top of 30% growth a year ago shows that we have a meaningful opportunity to generate comp sales growth through investments in digital channels.
And following our March head count reductions at headquarters our teams are taking a fresh look at everything we do and taking steps to remove approval layers and increase the speed of decision-making.
While there will certainly be a meaningful adjustment process I believe we will emerge with an agile and engaged team that is equipped and empowered to act quickly on behalf of the guest.
These signs of progress are meaningful to the team and demonstrate the value of our efforts and validate our strategic priorities.
Yet as we look ahead we realize we're on a much longer journey and need to accomplish many more things.
Specifically we're in the very early stages of our work on localization and personalization.
In the future these efforts should benefit both sales and gross margin rate.
And while we're still in the testing phase we're very encouraged by the progress in evaluating and rolling out urban formats like CityTarget and TargetExpress.
We opened two new Express locations in the San Francisco market this quarter both of which are quite different from our first location in the Minneapolis market.
We expect to open six more locations this year in a variety of markets and demographic areas to continue to learn how to operate this new format in a diverse array of sizes and settings.
Finally we are just beginning to reinvent our food assortment and presentation.
We have an opportunity to drive more traffic and sales in this critical area of the store by becoming more specialized in our assortment more focused on healthy options in support of wellness.
We're testing potential assortment and presentation options and this year we plan to study the guest response to potential changes before determining what we'll rollout more extensively next year.
While this quarter's results are encouraging we're focused on the work ahead of us as we transform ourselves to become a truly modern retailer and more relevant to our guests.
We're taking the necessary steps both in our investment decisions and the way we work to position Target for continued profitable growth in the years ahead.
The momentum we've seen so far makes us more confident than ever that we're moving the right direction and encourages us to move even faster.
Yet we know that long-term success depends on achieving the right balance between speed and the time it takes to confirm we're making the right changes that we can execute at scale.
Once we have that confirmation we're committed to moving forward both quickly and confidently to becoming the retailer our guests want Target to be.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathee to recap our first quarter results and plans going forward.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</strong> Thanks Brian.
In the first quarter we saw encouraging trends across many dimensions of our business including traffic sales merchandise mix markdown rates digital channel growth and overall profitability.
Within our sales our results reflect our continued focus on growing signature categories.
Beauty had another outstanding quarter and delivered more than a 5% comp but Apparel and Home were right behind with a mid-4% comp.
Given weather trends and Easter timing Apparel comps peaked in March but were strong throughout the quarter.
Among the drivers was swim where we saw better-than-expected results across the board in women's men's and kids.
In ready-to-wear we saw particular strength in Merona and our new plus-size brand Ava &amp; Viv.
And while it's small relative to the quarter the response to the Lilly Pulitzer partnership was the icing on the cake as more than 90% of the Apparel items sold out the first day.
Across the rest of our assortment food comps were just below the company average and hardlines experienced a mid-single-digit comp decline reflecting a very tough comparison to last year when we saw particularly strong sales from Disney's Frozen and elevated promotions drove sales in electronics.
As Brian mentioned first quarter comparable sales were driven by a healthy combination of growth in both traffic and average ticket.
Within average ticket an increase in average retail was partially offset by a decline in units per transaction.
This decline in average units was driven by category mix particularly Apparel along with channel mix as digital transactions typically have fewer units at higher average retail.
Besides channel mix growth in average retail was driven by a lower level of promotional activity this year and a trend in which our guests are trading up to higher quality and premium branded items.
We were really pleased with the pace of digital channel sales growth this quarter and even happier that it was driven by Home and Apparel.
But our digital goals are ambitious and we have a lot more work to do so we're continuing to invest in and roll out new initiatives to maintain our momentum.
The February launch of a lower $25 free shipping threshold drove a meaningful increase in conversion this quarter and guests continue to embrace store pickup which was up more than 100% from a year ago.
Subscriptions are also growing rapidly.
Sales on subscription grew 32% between the fourth quarter and the first quarter and the active subscriber base grew 20% within the first quarter.
And we continue to see great results from our ship-from-store capability which delivers shipping savings for us and reduced delivery times for our guests and we expect to roll out this capability to more than 200 additional stores this fall.
As I mentioned in the last call we were very happy to see the West Coast port situation resolved yet we knew it would take a few months for the shipping backlog to be completely relieved.
As of today I am pleased to say that those delays are fully behind us.
Consistent with our fourth quarter experience the team did a great job in the first quarter working around port-related issues by pre-ordering inventory and rerouting shipments.
However despite these efforts some categories including shoes saw spotty in-stocks in the quarter and saw sales accelerate as receipts began to flow and in-stocks recovered.
As we look ahead we are working to build on our current momentum in the second quarter and beyond.
In Apparel beyond swim we've been seeing encouraging trends in shorts dresses tanks and sandals and expect these businesses to be a key driver of second quarter sales.
In jewelry and accessories this morning we announced a new limited time partnership Eddie Borgo for Target that launches July 12.
Eddie has crafted a first-of-its-kind limited edition collection of customizable jewelry accessories and wall art featuring the designers' signature aesthetic and on-trend colors and finishes.
In Home we're seeing great momentum in our tabletop business and we'll expand the offering this quarter with a broader selection of both indoor and outdoor options for summer entertaining.
We're also excited (15:03) programs which will launch in July featuring more exclusive content from licensed and exclusive brands and do-it-yourself programs which will allow students to decorate their own journals notebooks and lockers.
In Wellness we continue to see amazing results from the Made to Matter collection.
Since the announcement of this collection featured brands are running up 25% to last year and the collection is on track to record $1 billion in sales this year.
And in Kids we have a blockbuster set of licensed programs planned for the second quarter and beyond.
In stores now we're offering about 150 items from the new Avengers movie including many that are exclusive to Target.
To support the release we've created an omni-channel marketing campaign that includes social media engagement and a uniquely creative stop-motion broadcast spot that brings the actual 12-inch action figures to life.
Also this summer looks for exclusive items across multiple categories in celebration of the June release of Jurassic World and the July release of Minions.
On target.com we've expanded our licensed offering by creating experiences for our top 29 licenses.
Each of these experiences includes favorite items that we carry in both channels plus extended assortments that include collectibles more apparel choices and hard-to-find toys.
We will continue to roll out experiences to more of our favorite characters throughout the year.
To celebrate the 65th anniversary of the iconic comic strip Peanuts we're rolling out a summer collection of more than 100 exclusive products.
These items are the work of our own product design and development team who partnered with current Peanuts cartoonist and the Charles M.
Schulz Museum to design fresh fun items that are true to the comic strip's roots.
We'll roll out more exclusive items across multiple categories throughout the year leading up to the release of the new Peanuts feature film in November.
And finally like moviegoers we're already excited about the December movie release from the most famous license of them all Star Wars.
Earlier this month as part of the worldwide 'May the 4th Be With You' event we allowed Darth Vader and Yoda to take over the target.com homepage offering special online-only deals on Star Wars licensed product.
We'll provide more details on our next earnings call but for now I can assure you that Star Wars fans will find plenty of reasons to visit our stores and target.com this year.
As we said many times we're encouraged by our progress but recognize that we are only at the beginning of a multi-year journey to transform our business.
We continue to roll out new store fixtures to enhance the shopping experience in Apparel Baby Electronics and Home and we're working quickly to develop and test ideas to reinvent our food area to become more specialized and more clearly embrace Wellness with local products naturals organics and clean labels.
And we continue to invest in our technology and supply chain capabilities to allow our guests to shop on demand and receive products where and when they want.
The good news is that even though we have much more to do the positive guest response to what we've already accomplished makes us confident we are moving in the right direction.
Now I'll turn it over to John who will share his insights on our first quarter financial performance and our outlook for the second quarter and beyond.
Thanks Kathee.
Our first quarter financial results were stronger than expected driven by better-than-expected sales performance particularly in our signature categories.
Adjusted EPS of $1.10 was $0.05 above the high-end of the guidance range provided at the beginning of the quarter.
First quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations of $1.01 about $0.09 lower than adjusted EPS driven primarily by pre-tax restructuring costs of $103 million combined with small adjustments for breach-related expenses and the favorable resolution of income tax matters.
First quarter GAAP EPS of $0.98 included a $0.03 loss on discontinued Canadian operations compared with a $0.24 loss on Canadian operations in the first quarter 2014.
Our first quarter comparable sales increase of 2.3% was just ahead of the guidance of 2% we provided at the beginning of the quarter.
We were pleased with the sales results throughout the quarter but they were particularly strong in March as weather warmed and Easter timing moved seasonal sales into the month.
Comparable sales growth for March and April combined which eliminates the effective Easter timing was stronger than we experienced in February.
Digital channel sales increased 38% in the first quarter on top of more than 30% growth in the first quarter last year.
Digital channels drove about 80 basis points of our first quarter comparable sales increase in line with our fourth quarter experience.
Comparable transactions were up both in the store and digital channels accounting for approximately 90 basis points of our comp increase.
REDcard penetration of 21.5% was about 110 basis points ahead of last year in line with our expectations.
This growth is faster than our fourth quarter pace and consistent with new account growth in the latter half of 2014.
Risk levels on the portfolio continue to run at historically low levels and this quarter we saw an increase in payment rates.
This increase is consistent with commentary from others and potentially explains what consumers are choosing to do with some of their savings from lower gas prices.
One other note; we've now begun piloting acceptance of chip transactions at our stores as the entire U.S.
payment industry prepares to move to chip technology later in the year.
Our first quarter segment EBITDA margin rate of 10.5% was stronger than expected driven by an unexpectedly strong gross margin rate.
Specifically our first quarter gross margin rate of 30.4% was nearly a percentage point higher than year ago.
This year's rate benefited from lower markdowns as we annualized the last year's promotional activity following the data breach and we saw a very favorable mix of sales in our signature category.
In fact the last two quarters are the only two in recent history in which sales mix has been a positive contributor to our overall gross margin rate.
This shows the value of our focus on driving growth in our signature category.
This quarter we grew sales and traffic while replacing promotionally-driven sales on lower margin items with higher margin sales in signature categories and the benefit to our P&amp;L was compelling.
On the SG&amp;A expense line this quarter we benefited from productivity improvements in the stores and overall leverage of pay and benefits partially offset by higher technology expense compared with the year ago.
Altogether our first quarter segment SG&amp;A expense rate improved about 20 basis points compared with last year.
Before I leave our segment discussion I want to comment on our inventory position at the end of the quarter which was about 9% higher than a year ago.
This increase was intentional and reflects some decisions we've discussed in the past calls.
First beginning last summer we increased our inventory commitment in commodity categories to support in-stocks in these frequency driving businesses.
And second our receipts this quarter reflected some pre-buying of imported product that the team had undertaken to mitigate risk before the West Coast port slowdown had been resolved.
Looking ahead we continue to feel very good about our overall inventory level and we expect year-over-year growth to moderate in the second quarter and beyond.
Moving to consolidated metrics.
First quarter interest expense was essentially flat to last year and we've returned $333 million to shareholders in the form of dividends in the first quarter an increase of 22% over last year.
As we mentioned during the last call the improvements in our business results and cash balance have positioned us to once again return cash through share repurchase within the limits of our capital structure goals.
As a result this quarter we bought back shares for the first time since the second quarter of 2013 investing $297 million in open market repurchases and another $265 million through an accelerated share repurchase agreement late in the quarter.
This means that in the quarter we returned over 140% of our net income through dividends and share repurchase.
Given our current cash position and continued strong cash generation by our business we expect to continue to repurchase shares in the second quarter and beyond and believe we will have the capacity to retire $2 billion or more of our shares in this fiscal year within the limits of our current investment-grade credit ratings.
One note we ended the quarter with about $1.2 billion remaining on our current share repurchase authorization meaning that if this activity continues as expected we would exhaust the current authorization later this year.
As a result we will be reviewing with our board the need to increase our share repurchase authorization at an upcoming meeting.
Before I turn to our outlook I want to pause and discuss our decision to begin reporting after-tax return on invested capital from continuing operations or ROIC in this quarter's earnings press release.
As you know from our previous discussions and the long-term performance incentives described in our proxy statement we believe ROIC is an important metric to measure the quality of our capital allocation decisions over time.
Also as you know we presented our long-term aspirations for this metric during our Financial Community Meeting in March.
Specifically we intend to reach the mid-teens or higher on this metric over the next five years.
Beginning this quarter we'll report how we have performed on this metric for the most recent trailing 12 months providing clarity on how we are measuring our own performance while allowing everyone to track our progress.
To provide additional context we're posting the last two years of quarterly calculations of this metric on our Investor Relations website in the Summary Financials section.
With that backdrop this morning we reported that for the trailing 12 months through first quarter 2015 our after-tax return on invested capital was 12.5% up about 60 basis points from a year before reflecting improved profitability on a relatively stable base of invested capital in our continuing operations.
Now let's move to our outlook for the second quarter and the remainder of the year.
In the second quarter we expect our comparable sales to increase between 2% and 2.5% reflecting expected growth in digital channel sales in the high-30% range.
Both of these expectations are similar to our first quarter performance and while it is still early our results through the first few weeks of the second quarter are consistent with that forecast.
We expect our second quarter gross margin rate to improve about 50 basis points from last year as we benefit from the comparison to last year's promotional activity while we continue to make price investments and add quality back into our owned and exclusive brand products.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we expect our second quarter rate will be 20 basis points to 30 basis points higher than a year ago as the rate benefit from productivity improvement is expected to be offset by a planned year-over-year increase in compensation expense.
You'll recall that compensation expense was unusually low in the second quarter last year as we significantly reduced our accrual for full-year incentive compensation in light of softening financial performance.
Combining our gross margin and expense rate expectations we're looking for improvement in our second quarter EBITDA and EBIT margin rates of 20 basis points to 30 basis points compared with last year.
Second quarter interest expense is expected to be about $150 million well below last year which was unusually high due to the retirement of some high coupon debt.
Our effective tax rate is expected to be just over 35% higher than last year's 33.7% rate driven by improved profitability.
Altogether these expectations would lead to second quarter adjusted EPS representing results of continuing operations in our single segment business of $1.04 to $1.14 compared with $1.01 a year ago.
While we've seen a strong start to the year so far it is early and we have a lot more to accomplish as the year progresses.
However our first quarter performance validates that we are focused on the right strategic priorities to propel our business forward and it certainly adds to our confidence that we can deliver on our guidance for the year.
As a result we've taken the lower-end of our prior full year guidance up by $0.05 and now expect full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $4.50 to $4.65.
With that we'll conclude today's prepared remarks.
Now Brian Kathee and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&amp;A roster.
Your first question will come from the line of Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Co.
Hi.
Congratulations on really solid results.
We're very pleased to hear about all the progress.
Regarding the comps in the back half should we think about traffic as the main opportunity or do you feel like ticket will also be an opportunity? And as we think about gross margin and your product assortment how are you balancing the idea of investing in price versus the innovation that you're conducting in your signature categories? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oliver good morning and thanks for joining us today.
As we think about the balance of the year I would ask you to think about three important variables and you saw those come to life in the first quarter.
We're clearly focused on driving traffic to our stores and we expect that to be a very important driver of our growth over the balance of the year.
But you're also seeing the benefit of our focus on signature categories and the higher ticket that that generates.
But importantly the third element is the increasingly important contribution we're seeing from our digital and online businesses.
So as we go forward we're going to continue to make sure we're seeing growth in traffic growth in our signature categories that leads to that gross margin rate improvement we saw in first quarter and the higher ticket but importantly the ongoing contribution of our online channel.
Brian you've been very agile with strategic decisions around the online and digital business.
As we look forward to back-to-school and holiday are there any key pointers in terms of the strategies you're undertaking particularly as mobile and shipping continue to be hot topics? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Oliver you heard Kathee talk about some of the key initiatives that came to life in the first quarter and you're going to continue to see us build off of that over the balance of the year.
We've completely rebuilt our app.
We're focused on improving our subscription and registry.
We're leveraging our stores to ship to our guests.
So we're going to continue to build on those initiatives as we go forward and continue to make sure that we're making the investments both in technology but importantly in the supply chain that brings that online business to life for our guests.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> And Oliver if we can go back for a minute to your question on thinking about price versus innovation and how do we balance those I would just say that we start from the guests looking at what it is that they expect from any given product category and then how do we build the very best product which is depending on what it is could be a combination of both price and innovation or more heavily leaning on one or the other depending on what we're talking about.
But very much guest-focused to make sure that we're offering them the content that's going to inspire them and resonate.
So there's not one size fits all.
It's really guest-focused driven by each category.
Thank you.
Congrats.
And that was very clear on Lilly Pulitzer.
Congrats on that as well.
Best regards.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oliver thank you.
Appreciate it.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
And I'll add my congrats as well.
My first question is on gross margin.
Does the gross margin guidance assume a continued mix shift to the signature categories that you enjoyed this quarter? And is the formula for Q2 in terms of price and quality investments kind of what we should be thinking going forward i.e.
you were down about 100 last year and you recapture about half according to your guidance.
Does that seem like a reasonable formula for Q3 as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me start with the gross margin and the focus for not only the quarter but for many years to come.
And we've been very clear about the importance of focusing in on our signature categories.
We believe that's our path to differentiating the brand.
So you should continue to expect us to focus on building our style categories.
And Kathee and her team are making great progress in Apparel and Home and Beauty and you saw the comps that those categories produced in the first quarter.
We'll continue to focus on Baby and Kids and accelerate our focus on Wellness.
So we believe those categories both in-store but importantly as we demonstrated in Q1 online where a significant portion of our growth in the digital channel was driven by Apparel and Home.
So that is a very favorable impact to mix both in-store and importantly as we improved and accelerate our online performance.
The other thing I'd add Matt more tactically between Q2 and Q3 that's really last year where you saw us transition from focusing on significant promotions that were primarily hardlines or some of our lower-margin categories focus to the business back-to-school and then into the holiday season.
So as we think about the way Q2 looks versus Q3 that promotional impact was real in Q2 but it was also we had a significant mix impact because of where we focused those promotions.
A little bit less of that as we go into Q3 and Q4 so the delta between last year's margin and this year's margin will change meaningfully.
And as Kathee said we continue to invest in price and quality across all of our brands.
That's very helpful.
If I could ask one follow up on the e-commerce business.
I'd love to get your insights perhaps using REDcard data in terms of how much digital growth do you think at this time point is incremental i.e.
are these new customers or infrequent customers? Thanks.
I think Matt I would answer it broadly and say that what we see across all guests is when they become engaged in the digital channel we see incremental growth in that channel and importantly incremental growth in the stores.
So their total engagement with us is very incremental we pickup incremental sales and importantly incremental profitability in both channels.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just wanted to get into a topic of traffic.
I mean I think traffic was up second quarter in a row that it's been up.
But I was wondering if you could maybe dig a little deeper into that someone in the grocery space talks about loyal households and it seems to me when you think about Target you guys want to build frequency and want to build these loyal households.
How are you thinking about that? Do you measure that? Is that measure improving? Some of our research suggests some of the early things you guys are doing should be building this number but I want to get your take on it.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> Yeah I would say that Scott it's pretty early in our transformation to say that we see momentum in that measure as it pertains to food.
I will tell you a lot of our growth in transactions is driven by new guests and that's driven more in the signature categories that we have been talking about.
Now we believe that we have an opportunity there to drive traffic in food and that's why we're in the midst of putting a lot of tests out in front of our guests both product and presentation to get that business on track and to make sure that we've got a really compelling point of view for our guests and then we will measure that over time to make sure that we're making progress.
But today I would say it's more driven by the signature categories that we've highlighted.
Yeah I mean that's actually where I was going not just food just on the idea that I think your heavy users are up 25 30 visits a year.
Are you seeing increase in those types of loyal households? It seems to me that might be a key driver here as we go forward to get that frequency up? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Scott it's certainly something that we're going to continue to monitor and measure over time.
It's still very early for us but that is a measure that we're clearly looking at.
We absolutely want to make sure we're building loyalty.
We want to build engagement and traffic.
We believe our focus on signature categories brings guests back to Target looking for what's new what's exciting.
And we also want to make sure we complement that with an improved food assortment because we know food is critically important to building engagement and driving overall traffic.
All right perfect.
And I had one other one we obviously are in stores quite a bit and I wanted to get your take I mean some of the pushback that we hear from investors is on the store level execution staffing levels in-stock position I think people which are maybe just be a little bit better and I was wondering what you think of that and are there initiatives to kind of improve some of those measures and where do you think you are kind of what inning do you think you are in on these areas? Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think as we would measure that and as we look at the guest feedback that we get Scott I would say store execution is very high.
Guests are very satisfied with the number of people that we have; their ability to help them.
I would say that we have an opportunity on the in-stock side and we've been working on that collectively stores and merchandising as we work through the port situation and getting those back in stock but also just our everyday basics.
And it's one of the reasons why our inventory is elevated as we talked about is that we have been making investments particularly in essentials category to make sure that we can raise our inventory levels appropriate to be in-stock in those categories.
So I think that's where we have the most opportunity right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Scott that's reflected in the key initiatives we've been talking about.
As we think about changes we're making in experience to elevate Apparel with mannequins to restructure our Home layouts to begin to make changes in Electronics we want to make sure we provide the guests with a great in-store experience particularly in those signature categories.
But as Kathee just noted we also need to make sure we're focused on the basics every day and we need to make sure we've got very high in-stock conditions particularly in those key consumable categories.
So for us execution at store level is critically important.
We believe we have the best team in retail and our focus now is on elevating the experience in those key signature areas of our store and ensuring that we're improving the in-stock conditions for basic essentials.
Perfect.
Our focus group of women was really pleased so keep up the great work.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Scott.
Appreciate the support.
Your next question will come from the line of Robby Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey.
Thanks for taking my question.
I think maybe for Kathee the comment you just made to Scott Mushkin about a lot of the growth in transactions being driven by new guests can you give us a little more insight to that? Is that a shift in traffic away from frequency and towards new guests? And how significant is that? And is there – how are you doing? Is it – are there some new marketing approaches you're taking to get people into the stores to alert them about the signature categories et cetera? Just some color on that would be great.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> Yeah so this is something that we aim to do all the time.
And of course right now we're comping against some pretty weak numbers post-breach last year so certainly that's part of it.
As we focus on signature categories I do think that's getting more new guests back into the brands and in a variety of different areas because signature categories cover so much from Beauty to Home et cetera to the different style categories.
And I think the way that we're doing it is really what Brian was just talking about presentations that are really compelling with product that's very inspirational and inviting them into the store through our marketing which resonates with them and then when they get to the store or online being able to convert them to a purchase.
So it's all of those things that I think are moving the needle.
And Kathee can you just comment more on the sort of propensity to trade-up for the guest? Is it – is there something changing there or is that just easy comparisons? Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> No we've seen this coming for a little bit now third quarter was the start of it continued into fourth quarter and now again in our first quarter.
But I think as we're improving quality as we're stepping up our assortments to be more aspirational we're seeing the guest really resonate with that product and move and that's broad across virtually all of our categories.
So not just in one segment of our business but really all of them.
So I think it's driven by the guest perhaps having a bit more money in their pocket.
I think it's the quality that we've put in they're recognizing those benefits and they're wanting to be able to trade-up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Robby the one point I'd emphasize so that we're really clear this isn't an either/or it's an and.
So we want to make sure we're delivering exceptional value every day on those core essentials and continuing to bring great quality newness innovation and value to our guests as they look for these more aspirational items.
So it's not a shift in strategy and it's not an either/or it's an and and we've got to make sure that both elements of our strategy include a focus on core essentials and more experiential offerings and when we bring those together that is the Target brand promise and experience.
That's where we bring Expect More.
Pay Less to life.
So both of those elements are starting to work together and I think you're seeing the guests respond very positively to it.
Sounds great.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Just I guess a regional question; in terms of the comp on a regional basis in the first quarter did you see any differences in your sales trends in states that are potentially a little more dependent on oil and gas? And then I guess the follow up there is can you also address any negative or potentially positive impact on the organization you see in areas that are increasing the minimum wage? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me start with the regional performance trends and we didn't see any correlation between what you just referred to changes in the oil and gas industry and an influence on our comps.
Obviously like everyone else and this happens every single year weather did impact regional performance.
We had some challenging days in the Northeast.
We faced the same ice storms that others did in the Southeast and in the Texas market.
But overall we saw very consistent comp performance across signature categories.
The growth Kathee talked about was strong across the country in Apparel and Beauty and Home.
And we've seen very consistent performance trends and responses from our guests across the country.
And to the minimum wage question no we haven't seen those types of impacts either.
Okay.
And then just secondly it looks like REDcard a nice pickup it looks like on a sequential basis and year-over-year.
Can you just talk about where management expectation is now on this particular product and where we think this could potentially go over the next two years or three years here? Thanks.
It's a great question Robby (sic) [Sean] (46:01) and I think we're sorting through that.
We wanted to get through annualizing past all of last year with the breach and the impact there.
We're really pleased that we saw 110 basis points of penetration growth.
We're seeing new accounts grow again roughly split equally between credit and debit.
I think as we learn a little bit more here as we go through this year we'll figure out where we want to go.
We still are very energized by REDcard as a product offering.
I think the opportunity for us is to tie that into a more holistic loyalty offering for our guests.
We're testing some of that now out East and you'll see us as the year goes on continue to test that take those learnings and apply it more broadly to the loyalty for our guests.
Okay that's helpful.
Best of luck in Q2.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi.
Thanks.
I had a couple questions.
I wanted to make sure I understood the SG&amp;A progression a little bit better.
I think John in the guidance you said we would delever at 20 bps to 30 bps in the second quarter which if I take your comp guidance it suggests it will be up around 5% in dollar terms.
Is that – are we thinking about that right? And what's the real run rate once you get through some of these other timing issues and the breaches on SG&amp;A dollars? Yeah I think yes you're right and all of that increase is really incentive expense offset by again some productivity improvements.
I think as the year progresses we'll continue to see improvements in SG&amp;A.
As we said throughout the year as the year progresses we'll continue to start to see the savings that we committed to the $2 billion $500 million of savings this year about half in COGS half in SG&amp;A.
In SG&amp;A that'll be offset somewhat by investments in technology.
So we should continue getting past the noise.
As the year progresses we'll continue to see leverage probably similar to what you saw in Q1 as we get into Q3 and Q4.
Okay got that.
And then Brian I think in your prepared discussion you mentioned some disappointment on digital execution particularly around the Lilly launch.
Could you give us a little more detail on what's being done to address those issues in terms of how the website actually works or supply chain? Will you ultimately invest more in fulfillment center capacity? Or just some actual actions to try and address that.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Greg in some ways you've answered the question for me and we've been very clear in the fact that we're going to make a $1 billion investment in technology and supply chain to enhance those capabilities to improve our capabilities to make sure we're partnering up technology with the ability to provide the product effectively through our supply chain.
So the Lilly event while a sensational event for the brand and we're really proud that we were able to create a Black Friday type event in the month of April with hundreds and thousands of our guests lining up waiting for that product but online we know we had some missteps and we're doing a deep dive we're looking at root causes and it's going to provide important learning for us as we get ready for the traffic we expect to generate during the holiday season.
But we are very committed to putting our capital behind improving technology capabilities and the supply chain requirements necessary to continue to grow that business at the accelerated rates we're delivering right now.
When do you think you'll know the things you need to get done for holiday? Is that something you'll know now or is it something to learn in the fall? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well this afternoon would be nice.
But we are actively tearing apart the learning and clearly want to make sure that we have the diagnostics in place as soon as possible and we're making the necessary adjustments and investments to enhance our overall digital experience.
So this afternoon would not be soon enough and the team has an incredible sense of urgency to ensure that we have the right capabilities so that we're constantly meeting the needs of the guests.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> And Greg I would just add that we're never done with that.
So certainly we're learning from the Lilly event and we will put that into play as soon as possible.
But as we're growing at the rate that we are and we're introducing new code all the time we are never done.
So this is an ongoing effort probably until the end of time.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys.
Couple questions.
First just on Made to Matter just can you give us how many brands have been designated with that? What categories you're seeing being most impactful so far? And what you're doing from a marketing standpoint to support them? Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> Yeah so Made to Matter's been a fantastic program for us Peter as you know we went from about 15 vendors last year and we increased that to about 30 vendors 31 vendors this year and we're seeing about 25% lift in sales.
So the guest is really loving the product that we're offering.
It's in a variety of categories.
There's certainly food products but there's Beauty products there's OTC there's Baby.
All of them though are really driven by simpler better-for-you product whether that's in food with cleaner labels and organic or whether that's in Baby where it's cotton and more natural materials but really great results and we marketed it most recently in the past month in what we call the rear seasonal area of our store where we brought all the products together for the first time and had really fantastic results.
There was a marketing campaign that went along with that that really resonated with the guests and then the in-store presence helped make it easy for them to find when they came to the stores.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Peter I think the great part of the program is it's just another point of validation that when we understand what the guest is looking for and we deliver the right curated assortment they respond really well.
And you know that we have over 25 million guests visit our stores every week.
We know that 98% of our guests purchase natural or organic products.
Thus we need to make sure we offer them the products and the selection they're looking for.
It doesn't mean that conventional products don't play a very important role going forward but our guest has voted.
We understand the guests better than ever before and Kathee and her team are just doing a sensational job of curating the right assortment and bringing the guests what they're looking for when they shop at Target.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's helpful.
Do you think is 30 vendors to 31 vendors a good number that you guys think you'll stick with? Do you think you'll add additional vendors to that program over the next 12 months or just maybe rotate out some and keep the number at 30 vendors 31 vendors? Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> I think that's a pretty good number.
We're still evaluating the program it's just we launched the new vendors this spring so we're still analyzing those results.
But to Brian's point the guests will guide that work.
The important part about Made to Matter is that while these brands might be carried elsewhere we have exclusive products with meaningful innovation within the program within Target and that's what's really resonating with the guests.
They recognize those brands are at Target and they love to buy them but they come looking for those new exclusive really innovative products.
So I think keeping the number at a reasonable amount so that we're sure that we can drive that right innovation that's very much a partnership with us and these suppliers.
So I think we're in the hunt with the right number.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
We've definitely seen it in the stores as well.
Quick one just on the food repositioning.
In terms of the cadence this year in terms of testing things what should we be looking at? Is there going to be space allocation changes? Is it going to be just new brands? And once you do decide what you're going to do is it going to be an early 2016 kind of rollout something that could impact a lot of that year? Or is it something that would happen kind of later in 2016? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Peter Kathee and I have been talking about this for several months now.
We're using 2015 to test and learn.
Kathee has talked about key categories within food that we really think Target should stand for and we're looking very closely at how we evolve assortment and how we merchandise those categories going forward.
But this is not about how fast we make the changes.
We want to make sure we really have a chance to test learn get the feedback from the guest iterate so that as we move into 2016 and beyond we move forward with confidence.
And with the confidence that the guest has guided us through the changes we're going to make.
So we're clearly focused on it the team is making very good progress but we're in that test and learn and validate environment right now and you should expect to see much more unfold as we get into 2016.
Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> The thing that I would add is as we're going to the testing as Brian mentioned we're testing many different things whether that's assortment changes that we're making presentation changes that we're making supply chain changes part of our testing is to try to isolate those tests so that we can get a good read.
So there's not going to be one place that you can go look at what is the new food innovation look like.
We've got it all over the place.
And the other thing that I would add is you know that we've just hired Anne Dament to run the Senior Vice President of Grocery and we're very excited about that.
She's been onboard now for about a month and brings us 19 years of experience in grocery and CPG.
So she's certainly learning and onboarding into Target and bringing a wealth of knowledge from grocery which will also impact what we put forth in terms of tests for the rest of the year.
But I think you can look to 2016 as we learn and prove out what's working with the guests what's resonating we will start rolling those in 2016 but don't expect the big bang on January 1.
To Brian's point this is really about getting it right and delighting the guests not moving fast.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Understood.
Thanks Kathee.
Thanks Brian.
Your next question will come from the line of Bob Drbul with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I just had a couple questions.
On the gross margin line did shipping expense at all impact you with the move to $25? And how many REDcard holders are utilizing their cards for free shipping? How do we think about that as e-commerce continues to grow? So certainly shipping expense went up when we moved to $25 but I would tell you not a material impact on the quarter.
And net-net as we've said as that brings more guests online they shop our store and so a net positive as far as we're concerned across the lifetime value of those guests.
I don't have the actual number of REDcard holders that use free shipping on the site but I can tell you the penetration of free shipping due to REDcard on the site is very very high.
In general we have a very high percentage of our shipping that goes out free from the site.
We talked about this last year when we shipped to free – switched to free shipping during the holiday season and I think that is why going back to what Brian said the supply chain investments we make are incredibly important for our guests because they provide speed to market from their perspective but they're incredibly important for us because they improve the economics of our online business meaningfully.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And then the second question I have is there's a lot of license initiatives that are coming over the next several quarters.
When you think about the year-over-year impact on the business overall are those gross margin accretive in terms of what they're trying to do? Would they be lower margin? And just how do we think about that as it relates to the mix and the gross margin overall? Chief Merchandising and Supply Chain Officer</span></strong> A lot of that depends on the categories.
I think the good part about licenses at Target is that our guests respond to them very broadly so it isn't just a toy or a video game.
For us there's Apparel involved there's back-to-school products like backpacks and notebooks.
So it's a pretty – they have a pretty healthy margin mix just given the breadth of category and most of them fall into our signature categories.
So we're very excited about the lineup of licenses and the fact that they start this summer and really go all fall.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
We have time for one more question.
Your final question will come from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
So two quick ones.
You originally guided the first quarter gross margin up 40 to 50 so I was curious what came in better versus your expectations? Was it mix or was it the level of promotions lapping the level of promotions year-over-year? And then I have a follow up.
It was mix is what came in better and I think we see that in two ways.
First of all there's just the mix of selling those products and then when we see strength in Home and Apparel of course our sell-throughs go up and so we have less markdowns.
And so the positive benefits of mix go on and on.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'd only add Christopher that again we saw that mix benefit both in-store and online.
So the combination of those two channels working together clearly impacts and improves gross margin rate.
Understood.
And then so the outlook – and you mentioned this going forward the outlook in the second quarter is predicated on recapturing both of those and then going on further in the year.
It's really expectation that the signature categories out-comp more the essential side? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That is certainly core to our strategy as we go forward.
And I think what you saw what we saw in Q1 very solid performance.
Kathee and her team did a terrific job of curating the right products particularly in those signature categories for our guests.
Despite some of the port challenges our supply chain teams did an outstanding job of making sure we had inventory in place for the guests.
I was very pleased with our marketing program and if you haven't seen the Target style campaign or some of the things we just did for Avengers its spectacular advertising and the guests are responding to it.
And our store teams just did a phenomenal job throughout the quarter despite port challenges and weather challenges of providing the guests with a good experience and it added up to really solid results in Q1.
So we hope that continues.
We're confident it's going to continue throughout the year but we feel good about the progress we know we've got a lot of work in front of us but that combination of strong in-store and online growth in the first quarter gives us a lot of confidence that we're heading in the right direction.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> So operator that concludes our call today.
I thank everybody for their participation and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Target Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday August 19 2015.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan currently our Chief Financial Officer who has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer effective September 1st; and Cathy Smith who is the named Chief Financial Officer effective September 1st.
This morning Brian will discuss our second quarter performance including results across our merchandise category and plans for the third quarter and remainder of the year then Cathy will provide her perspective as she prepares to join the team as Chief Financial Officer next month and finally John will offer more detail on our second quarter financial performance and discuss our outlook for the third quarter and full year.
Following the remarks we’ll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we’re joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following the call John and I will be available throughout the day to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Also in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure and return on invested capital which is a ratio based on GAAP information with the exception of adjustments made to capitalized operating leases.
Reconciliations to our GAAP EPS and to our GAAP total rent expense are included in this morning’s press release which is posted on our Investor Relations Web site.
With that I’ll turn it over to Brian for his perspective on our second quarter performance.
Brian? Thanks John and good morning to all of you.
We are very pleased with our second quarter financial results which we announced earlier this morning.
Our second quarter adjusted EPS of $1.22 is 20.6% higher than last year and $0.08 above the high end of the guidance range we provided at the beginning of the quarter.
We are also pleased that once again this quarter we were able to grow traffic and sales both in stores and in digital channels even as we were cycling over a very promotional second quarter from last year.
Our second quarter comparable sales increase of 2.4% was just ahead of our first quarter performance and consistent with our expectations.
Notably about two thirds of this comp increase was driven by a growth in traffic combined with the smaller increase in average ticket.
Second quarter digital sales grew 30% from a year ago slightly below our expectations as we compared against very intense digital channel promotions last year.
Digital growth contributed about 60 basis points to our comp sales growth this quarter.
Our second quarter gross margin rate was a half a percent point higher than last year.
As we continue to benefit from favorable merchandise mix and the comparison over last year’s promotional markdowns.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we had an unexpectedly strong quarter as we benefited from discipline throughout the organization along with the impact of expense timing as John will cover in a few minutes.
With these results we continue to benefit from very strong cash generation by our core business which enabled us to return a combined $1 billion to our shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share repurchase.
As we’ve outlined in last several quarters we’re working to define clear roles for each of our merchandise categories and avoiding resources to growing what we call our signature categories; style which includes the majority of apparel home and beauty categories along with baby kids and wellness.
While we are still in the early days of this work we’re already seeing a compelling benefit from our efforts.
Specifically comp sales in signature categories grew more than 7% in the second quarter three times our overall comp growth.
This performance represents an acceleration from the first quarter when comp growth and signature categories was about doubled Target's overall comp growth.
With strong signature categories performance comps in both Home and Apparel were in the 4% to 5% range this quarter.
In Apparel results were strongest in Baby and Kids along with women's ready-to-wear.
Within Home results were strongest in the core and seasonal including back-to-school.
Other categories highlights this quarter included toys part of our Kids focus in hardlines which saw more than a 12% increase in comp sales.
This growth helped offset comps decline in Electronics which is a primary beneficiary of the second quarter promotions last year and we were also seeing soft sales in tablets.
Outside out stores our focus on style was evident as more than 80% of our second quarter digital channel sales growth was driven by Home and Apparel.
In Home where digital penetration is much higher than average digital channel growth have of our total comp this quarter.
Looking ahead we'll continue to work to advance the key strategic priorities we laid out last fall.
First on our list is to become a leader in digital this is critically important because guest research shows that digital relevance drives traffic and engagement across all selling channels.
While we're pleased with the industry leading growth we've seen so far this year we have much more work to do and a key asset will deploy is our source.
We're already shipping digital orders from approximately 140 stores and by the end of this year we'll be shipping for more than 450 locations.
Ship-from-store capabilities allows us to balance inventory across the network leverage the capital and labor already in our stores and reach guest more quickly.
To highlight the benefits in improved shipping times this fall we'll begin testing what we're calling available-to-promise in which we'll the guest a specific delivery commitment typically 2 or 3 business days.
If the guest orders on a specific date we believe this capability will drive further increases in digital conversion rates which are already improving rapidly as guest respond to a faster and firmer delivery commitment.
Second on the list of key priorities is working on category roles beyond our efforts to grow signature categories we're also focused on testing and learning how we can reposition our food offerings to better serve our guests.
While this work won't be complete until next year we're engaged in many small tests throughout the country to gain a deeper understanding of our how guest would respond to potential changes in assortment and presentation.
Through guest research we already know we need to be more clearly highlighting Wellness in our food offering through both assortment and the information we provide.
We're also focused on ways to elevate our food presentation and experience to fit the way the guests live and shop.
We know we have an opportunity to provide fresh healthy options and more relevant and localized assortment as our guests responding to healthy choices we're offering today.
Within food our market share in Wellness is already doubled our food share overall and this quarter we continue to see double digit sales growth in these important categories.
This clearly shows that our guests are already responding when we enhance assortment of natural organic and better-for-you items in our stores.
As a result in the third quarter we'll continue to expand our Wellness assortment in food with new food items in our made to matter collection and nearly 50 new items across 6 categories in our simply balanced brand.
Our third priority is to develop capabilities to offer more localized experiences across our stores and a more personalized digital experience for our guests.
While this work is ongoing we're already seeing encouraging signs of the early progress on both fronts.
To inform our localization efforts we launched a small test in the Chicago market where we're working with a set of stores to test changes to assortment presentation and inventory commitments on certain items.
In these stores we're highlighting locally relevant items updating category adjacencies and changing shelf facings to reflect the demographics around these individual stores.
While this test is still early we're encouraged with the guest response so far specifically comp performance in this group of test stores has been 1 to 2 points higher than the rest of the Chicago market and a set of controlled stores.
Items featured in the tests are present in 5% to 10% of the guest baskets in these stores and we've seen a meaningful improvement in our guest survey stores for variety of products in these stores.
Giving these strong initial results we're working to quickly build on our capabilities and create an operating model that allows us to scale our efforts across a broader set of stores and demographic clusters.
As part of our personalization efforts last year we replaced the third party recommendation engine with internally developed product which incorporates both in-store and online guest history.
In 2015 we've expanded the use of engine across our mobile offerings email subscriptions and cartwheel.
This engine is driving a meaningful increase in conversion compared with our results on the prior third-party product generating incremental sales of $50 million to $100 million so far this year.
We've rolled out personalization recommendations to Cartwheel only a few weeks ago but early data indicates the change is driving more than a 10% increase in the number of offers downloaded per user a critical co-measure of engagement with this app.
Our fourth priority is to test and roll out new more flexible format in markets where populations are increasing guest affinity for Target is high and our store penetration is low.
This quarter we were very excited to open a new City Target store in Boston literally next door to Fenway Park.
And we're pleased with the look and feel of the store and the positive response we've seen from our neighbors.
We began work on develop the store a decade ago well before we had smaller formats and for this project we're able to open a full sized store in a dense urban area.
However this opening begs a question of the criteria we're using to designate stores as City Targets a Target Express or simply Target.
As a result we announced last month that going forward we will no longer use the City Target or Target Express names on any of these new stores.
This announcement doesn't reflect a change in our desire to open stores in urban areas.
It simply reflects our goal to become flexible and how we fit into every community with an ability to open up a variety of stores different sizes and layouts offer a locally relevant assortment and provide guests with easy access to items from our entire digital assortment through in store pickup.
Our fifth and final priority is to advance our growth initiatives by changing the way we work and becoming a more effective and agile organization.
This week we announced several changes to our team including John's promotion to the newly created Chief Operating Officer role and the hiring of Cathy Smith as our new Chief Financial Officer.
I am very excited about these changes and confident that John and Cathy will play a critical role in Target's long term success.
In the past year I developed a deep appreciation of John's knowledge and insight.
And I believe he is the right person to improve our operations.
Retail is changing rapidly today than any time in my career and we need to ensure that core operations keep pace with the new ways we're serving the guests.
Overtime Target has developed an incredibly complex supply chain built to serve an outdated linear model in which product flows from vendors through distribution centers to stores.
To serve guests today we are becoming much more flexible in a way we fulfill demand for products and services.
And this is stretching our supply chain well beyond its core capabilities.
And frankly as a result some retail fundamentals have started to suffer.
Specifically in stocks in our stores have been unacceptable so far this year.
And our guests deserve better.
In this new role I've asked John to focus first and foremost on improving the capabilities of our supply chain working across organizational boundaries to understand and address root causes that are hampering day to day execution.
Beyond these immediate needs I've asked John to continually assess and evolve our capabilities to ensure our operations keep up with our strategy and a rapidly evolving retail landscape.
As we plan to move John into this critical Chief Operating Officer role it was really important to me that we hired a Chief Financial Officer who is a proven leader.
Someone capable of upholding Target's strong track record of disciplined financial management.
So I'm very excited that we've convinced Cathy Smith to join our leadership team.
She served as a CFO at other large organizations including Wal-Mart where Cathy and I were colleagues.
I have the utmost confidence in Cathy as a strong financial and business leader.
She'll be an outstanding addition to our leadership team and John and I look forward to supporting her transition into this role.
One year ago I was only a week into my new position when I spoke on this earnings call.
As I look back at the last year I am very pleased with our progress and confident we're focused on the right strategic priorities because our guests are responding.
As we plan for this year we face the daunting challenge of sustaining traffic and sales without repeating last year's promotional intensity.
So far this year traffic and sales are increasing digital growth is far ahead of the industry and signature categories are leading the way yet we will not slowdown.
We'll continue to invest in newness innovation and presentation while we focus on maintaining strong execution.
We're seeing encouraging results in back to school and back to college and we'll work hard to maintain that momentum for the rest of the season.
Also this quarter we're excited about our new planned program including more than 50 items from our latest design partner Adam Lippes beyond Adam's design our planned takeover will feature 100s of other products across a broad set of categories.
Beyond apparel accessories home and pets you'll find planned soda bottles shampoo bandages paper towels and more.
We’re pleased with the early reaction and the media buzz and looking forward to rolling out these items throughout the quarter.
Target is also featured permanently in the September issue of Vogue which includes a 21 page insert where we’ve re-imagined some of the most iconic covers by incorporating products we sell.
This insert will be digitally shoppable so our guests can go behind the scenes to buy what they see and access additional content.
And while that becoming even more important in the fourth quarter we’re already ramping up our support around this year’s hot license products for kids both young and old.
For Minions to Marvel Avengers to Peanuts and of course Star Wars.
These licenses are prominent in our assortment of back-to-school backpacks and this fall we will feature them on Halloween costumes décor apparel toys and much more.
Before I end my remarks I want to pause and thank the Target team including the colleagues I met on my recent trip to India who are doing amazing work in sourcing and technology to support our strategic growth priorities.
For our team members around the world this has already been a very eventful year and we made changes to our team and our structure to better support our guests.
Throughout all these changes the team has remained resilient and energetic where the passion to serve our guest is contiguous.
Every day I step back and marvel at the amazing things this team can deliver iconic marketing amazing products at an incredible price fast and easy digital experiences and of course a unique store experience that brings our expect more pay less promise to life every day.
None of this would be possible without our great team.
And the outstanding results we’ve seen so far this year are a testament to their efforts.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Cathy Smith.
Cathy won’t officially begin her role until September 1st but I’m pleased that she is here today to introduce herself and share a few thoughts about Target and her new role.
Cathy? Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
Like Brian I have long admired Target as a retailer and an iconic brand and a great American company.
During my career I’ve had the opportunity to view Target through the lens of a competitor and of course a guest.
And now I am really excited and humbled to have the opportunity to join the team as we work to transform how we serve guests while preserving what consumers love about this brand.
While I won’t start working here until next month I’ve really enjoyed getting to know the leadership team and I have had the opportunity to meet with many of the members of the finance team this week.
Target’s success comes from many things beyond the iconic brand the company has an impressive array of owned and exclusive brands as a guest and someone who loves retail I’m constantly impressed by Target’s ability to delivery new trendy high quality items at amazingly low prices and I just know there are incredible product design developed and sourcing teams behind those items.
In addition in appreciate that Target has just added 1 800 well maintained great looking stores in convenient locations delivering a great shopping experience and near and dear to every CFO’s hearts we have a healthy balance sheet which when combined with our strong cash flow generation creates ample capacity to fund robust investments in growth and the return of billions of dollars to shareholders annually through dividend and share repurchases.
And lastly Target has its passionate team members who work tirelessly to serve our guests every day and who are proud of their Target.
Let me tell you a brief story as I was exploring the possibility of joining this amazing company I wanted to move beyond the familiar experience of shopping at my Target so I dedicated a couple of weeks to visit more than 65 stores across 10 states and I drove my family along for most of the ride.
I spoke to guests at every store I visited and I can tell you that they are clearly demanding enthusiasts they love Target and they enjoyed sharing their personal stories about why they chose to shop with us.
Before I close I want to say that I’m looking forward to reconnecting with those of you I know and getting to know those of you I don’t.
I plan to scale my first few months with the team amercing myself in the business to ensure I have a detailed understanding of where we’ve been where we are today and where we need to go in the future.
With that foundation I look forward to meeting you and hearing your perspective.
Now I’ll turn it over to John who will share his insights on our second quarter financial performance and our outlook for the third quarter and beyond.
John? Thanks Cathy and hello everyone.
We’re really pleased with our second quarter results as virtually every line on the P&amp;L came in at or better than our expectations.
Compared with our guidance going into the quarter overall comparable sales were in line with expectations but the mix of store sales was a bit stronger than expected.
Second quarter gross margin performance also met our expectations but SG&amp;A expense performance was much better than planned reflecting our continued efforts to control costs along with the impact of a timing change in marketing expense.
As a result our second quarter adjusted EPS was $1.22 $0.08 above the high end of the guidance range provided at the beginning of the quarter.
Second quarter EPS from continuing operations was $1.21 $0.01 lower than adjusted EPS as pretax restructuring costs and breach related expenses were 1 penny each were partially offset by $0.01 benefit from the favorable resolution of income tax matters.
Second quarter GAAP EPS of $1.18 reflects a $0.03 loss on discontinued Canadian operations compared with a $0.25 loss on Canadian operations last year.
This year's Canada losses were consistent with our expectations as an increase in our accrual for estimated probable losses primarily guarantee of leases was offset by an adjustment to the tax benefit from the Company's investment loss in Canada.
Our second quarter comparable sales increase of 2.4% was just ahead of our first quarter performance and consistent with our guidance at the beginning of the quarter.
Within the quarter comps were strongest in May and June however this year's monthly pattern was the mirror image of last year's second quarter when the comp growth was strongest in July which featured the most intense promotions in the quarter.
As a result on a two year basis monthly comp trends were very consistent throughout the quarter.
Importantly transactions were positive both in-stores and online throughout the quarter driving two-thirds of our comparable sales growth.
Digital channel sales increased 30% in the second quarter on top of more than 30% growth in the second quarter last year.
As Brian mentioned second quarter 2014 was intensely promotional and those promotions were a key driver of digital channel sales last year.
Looking ahead we'll continue to focus on achieving our digital channel sales goals through a combination of both traffic growth and conversion improvement.
REDcard penetration was 22.1% in the second quarter more than 130 basis points ahead of last year.
Portfolio delinquency and write off metrics are at historically low levels and we continue to see increase in payment rates.
This means the size of the portfolio continues to slowly decline but better than expected risk metrics are offsetting this impact.
As a result profit sharing income on the portfolio was up this quarter compared to last year.
One other note this week we began accepting EMV or chip-card transactions at all stores across the country.
As a result this quarter we will initiate the process of replacing all of our REDcard products with chip and pin cards including our private label credit and debit products.
While sales were in line with expectations our second quarter segment EBITDA margin rate of 10.9% was much stronger than expected.
Our second quarter gross margin rate of 30.9% was half a point higher than a year ago right on our guidance.
Consistent with the first quarter this year rate benefited from lower marked downs as we annualized last year's post breach promotional activity and we saw a very favorable mix of sales in our signature categories.
I mentioned this last quarter but I want to emphasize it once again it is really important that we've been able to grow our traffic in sales even as we cycle over very intense promotions last year.
Beyond the benefit of growing sales there was a compelling gross margin benefit from growing our signature categories three times as fast as the Company which more than offsets the pressure on our cost to goods from investments in quality innovation and presentation.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we had a standout quarter with a rate improvement of about 60 basis points compared with last year.
This performance was driven by outstanding discipline across the enterprise combined with the benefit of our cost control initiatives.
These benefits more than offset a 40 basis point headwind from incentive compensation which was unusually low in the second quarter 2014 in light of the financial performance we were experiencing at the time.
As I noted earlier marketing expense timing was a meaningful benefit this quarter.
As last year’s second quarter spending was unusually high to support our promotions and this year we've retimed some spending into the third quarter in support of our back-to-school licenses and Target style.
This timing shift benefited our second quarter SG&amp;A rate by about 30 basis points or about half our overall rate favorability and we expect this shift will reverse in the third quarter.
Before I leave our segment discussion I want to comment on our quarter end inventory position which was about 4% above last year.
This reflects a meaningful improvement from the 9% year-over-year increase we reported at the end of first quarter driven by issues at the west coast ports.
While we've made a lot of progress in the second quarter the year-over-year increase is moderated even further so far in August.
As our quarter end inventory supported back-to-school sales that moved into early August as a result of retiming of some tax-free holidays.
Bottom line we feel very good about overall inventory levels in relation to our sales plans; however we have a big opportunity to improve in stock levels which I'll cover in a few minutes.
One note you'll see on the balance sheet that we've moved pharmacy inventory into the other current assets line in all periods reflecting the current status was held for sale pending the close of our transaction with CVS.
Moving to consolidated metrics second quarter interest expense was $148 million flat to second quarter 2014 excluding last year's $285 million charge for early debt retirement we paid second quarter dividends of $331 million up 22% from last year and we invested in other $675 million to retire shares that adds up to a total of $1 billion return to our shareholders this quarter representing more than 130% of net income.
Looking ahead with healthy business results and an ample cash position we expect to have the capacity to continue to returning a meaningful amount of cash through both dividends and share repurchases within the limits of our current investment grade credit ratings.
As anticipated given our continued desire to repurchase shares in the second quarter our Board of Directors approved a $5 billion increase in our share repurchase authorization.
As of quarter end under this program we have retired more than 65 million shares at an average price of just over $67 a share for a total investment of about $4.4 billion.
With the expansion of the program we expect that sufficient repurchase authority well into next year including any potential repurchase resulting from the proceeds of the CVS transaction.
Regarding that transaction things are continuing as expected as we work with CVS and regulators to advance the process of gaining approval for the sale.
Given the uncertainty of potential timing for regulatory approval and the closing of the transaction the guidance we provide to-date does not reflect any expected impacts of the transaction which includes application of proceeds and removal of prescription sales costs and assets from our financial statements.
As I described last quarter this year we began reporting return on invested capital from continuing operations or ROIC because we believe it is an important metric in assessing the quality of our capital allocation decisions overtime.
And as we covered in the financial community meeting in March our goal is to reach the mid teens or higher on this metric over the next five years.
Not surprisingly given our strong operating results we reported a meaningful improvement in trailing 12 month ROIC this quarter as it grew 2 full percentage points to 13.3% compared with 11.3% a year ago.
Now let's move to our outlook for the third quarter and the remainder of the year.
In the third quarter we are cycling over stronger sales results from last year both in stores and digital channels.
And we expect the consumer competitive environment to remain choppy.
As a result we are planning for a third quarter comparable sales increase of 1 to 2% including expected digital channel sales growth of about 30%.
We expect our third quarter gross margin rate to increase 20 to 30 basis points compared with last year reflecting a continued mix from the signature category sales and a benefit from cycling last year's promotional activity partially offset by investments in quality and price on our owned and exclusive brand products.
On the SG&amp;A expense line we expect our third quarter rate will be about flat to last year.
As the benefit from cost control is expected to be offset by a 30 basis point headwind from the shift in marketing spend from Q2.
Combining our gross margin and expense rate reductions we're looking for improvement in our third quarter EBITDA and EBIT margin rates of 20 to 30 basis points compared with last year.
Third quarter interest expenses is expected to be approximately flat to last year and tax expense is expected to increase by about $60 million reflecting improved profitability and non-recurring favorable tax items in third quarter last year.
Altogether these expectations would lead to third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.79 to $0.89 compared with $0.79 a year ago.
Note that this includes the impact of the shift in marketing timings which translates to a $0.05 per share headwind in the third quarter.
As we look ahead to the full year we are certainly pleased with our results so far which have been notable stronger than expected and we have been pleased with comp performance so far this month including back to school sales which reflected retiming of some tax free holidays into early August.
At the same time we remain mindful of the intensely competitive nature of our holiday season and have noted the inventory levels we're seeing with some competitors.
Taking both of those factors into account we're updating our guidance for the full year adjusted EPS to $4.60 to $4.75 a $0.10 increase compared with the prior range.
Before I conclude my remarks I want to pause and comment on my priorities as I enter the new role as Chief Operations Officer next month.
As Brian mentioned the number one priority for my new team is to improve the way our supply chain functions from end to end achieving this goal lead to many benefits perhaps the most visible of which is an improvement in our in stocks.
Given the breadth and complexity of our business it will always be a challenge to the in stock on every item in every store in every moment of every day.
But our guests need us to be consistent in delivering everyday essentials and unfortunately in the last couple of quarters our in stocks have been deteriorating.
This challenge is understandable because we've been asking our supply chain to move well beyond its original design and become more flexible in the way we serve our guests.
However while we understand the reasons the simple fact is that our current performance is unacceptable.
So beginning this quarter my team will be looking for both quick and more comprehensive solutions to make improvements in the supply chain both this year and overtime and beyond this initial effort we will work to ensure that our preparations and strategy move in lock steps enabling us to serve our guests in a rapidly evolving retail landscape.
I look forward to updating you on our progress over the coming months and years.
With that we'll conclude today's prepared remarks.
Now Brian Cathy and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Company.
Brian as you’ve been so successful in this journey as traffics back to the stores just a bigger picture question how do you think your priorities have kind of dynamically changed throughout the year and where would you say Target is in terms of customers coming back to the store versus increasing customer spend? And John I had a question relating to the comp guidance as well.
Oliver overall I think we’re making really good progress against our key strategic initiatives that we’ve been talking about for a year now.
The change we announced this week is to make sure that we elevate our focus on execution and really ensuring operational excellence throughout the organization.
And that is why I am so excited about John stepping into this new role to make sure that we complement the focus we have placed upon creating strategic clarity with a recommitment to operational execution.
And I think the combination of those two elements is critical to continuing to drive traffic make sure we delight the guest seeing improvement in our net promoter scores and make sure that both in-store and online we are continuing to see an acceleration in traffic and visits to our site.
So I think we’re making very good progress right now.
I think that is showing up in the results we delivered this quarter but we’re not satisfied and we know we’ve got more work to do to ensure that we do meet the needs of the guest every time they shop and critically important in meeting those needs is to make sure that we provide a great in-store experience and dramatically improve our in stock conditions particularly around core essentials.
So I think very good progress I think this is an excellent quarter where the entire team performed well but we know we’ve got more work to do and we got to make sure both in-store and online we deliver a consistently great experience for the guest.
And John I just had a question on the comp guidance would you expect this to be a pretty broken up between traffic or ticket or do you think it’s going to be more traffic led and as you do embark on the opportunity in supply chain what are you highlighting as your lower hanging fruit in terms of timing and I was just curious about the categories that you seen the most opportunity for when you think about further advancing your supply chain? Sure.
On the comp guidance we don’t breakout traffic and ticket but I’ll tell you just from a business perspective we’re very focused on driving traffic overtime ultimately we have to bring people in our stores we need to bring people at our site on to mobile devices and so that’s a key driver for us for our sales as we continue to move forward.
Related to the supply chain there is the team has done a great job responding to the needs of the organization overtime to develop more flexible ways to meet the needs of our guests and really fulfill on demand shopping I think we are just at a point now where we need to step back and build broader capabilities across the entirety of the supply chain as we continue to expand the way we want to serve our guests.
So there is not one particular area of the company or one particular part of the business that we’re completely focused on absent I would tell you and as I said and you heard from Brian in-stocks are a key priority and in specifically being sure day-to-day in every store we’re in-stock on essentials.
That’s a key priority for our guest.
We hear it from them.
It’s a key focus for the team and we have teams working on improving those in-stocks across our essential categories to-date and that will be a focus as we go forward.
Oliver I can build on that because as we talk about improving our focus on operational and executional initiatives now I go back to some conversations we’ve had in the past.
I actually believe we have the best team in retail.
Our store operations Tina and her team do a sensational job.
But one of the things that John will be focused on is ensuring we simply the work and we make it much easier for them to execute each day and take care of the guest.
So we want to complement a very strong store leadership team that does a sensational job each and every day executing store by store by simplifying some of the work by making sure that we push work upstream and allow them to focus even more on the store experience and the service we provide our guest.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo.
First I was wondering to what extent you are using price to drive the 3x growth in signature categories can you comment on what the growth and gross profit dollars for those categories has been like? Yes Matt I’d tell you that the improvements we’re seeing is really driven by mix and as we’ve talked about we’ve invested heavily in ensuring we are on trend.
We are bringing great quality to the guests.
We’re extenuating our position in key categories.
We were really pleased during the quarter to see how well we connected with sub-cats like swim.
We’ve seen really strong performance in ready to ware and most recently a very positive response to the changes we made in denim so the improvements we're seeing in those categories are really driven by great quality following the trend curves bringing great style and fashion to our guest and it has not been driven by a reliance on pricing.
And then secondly your comments regarding the supply chain being stretched I realized that the analysis is just starting or in the early days but do you believe that there is a significant refinement required in the supply chain in terms of either DCs or FCs or something else? No Matt we are in a place where we have we believe just great-great assets across the supply chain great distribution centers great upstream distribution centers food distribution centers fulfillment centers and of course the stores.
I think we've said over the past couple of years our focus of our investment has been supply chain and technology in support of becoming an on demand company that will continue to be the case.
We're going to continue invest in technology and supply chain but the physical asset side we feel really-really good about.
Okay that's great news and then if I could just sneak one more in the early back-to-school strength and the marketing shift is that fully embedded into the Q3 comp guide? It is and it would be and we're seeing a very positive start to back-to-school and back-to-college.
Your next question will come from the line of David Schick with Stifel.
Wondering if you could give us a few more examples concrete examples of how you are driving that localization success in Chicago categories or items and separately if you could talk a little bit about digital approach outside of your own platform so we've seen it and we've heard from you what you're doing and that's exacting and driving growth but we've seen a little bit of your outreach to bloggers and how you're working with them if you could talk about the full view of how you're thinking about digital outside of the Target's headquarter that will be helpful as well? Thank you.
Sure David let me start with localization and as I said during the couple of calls this is still a very nascent effort for us.
We're in one market a handful of stores in Chicago but we’d really been focusing on a handful of areas where we recognize we need to change our assortment change our presentation be more relevant and really recognize the needs and the demographics of these local markets.
So there is a handful of categories I might list up one craft beer and really making sure that in a category like craft beer we have locally relevant items and we recognized that even in a market like Chicago those need to be tailored neighborhood by neighborhood.
So we have looked at specialty foods.
We have looked at categories like craft beer.
We have looked at categories like patio and grills and recognizing in that end the suburbs of Chicago we can offer and should have in-store large patio sets five burner grills but for our stores located in more of the urban neighborhoods of Chicago we need Easter tables and we need two burner grills because those guests are living in condos and apartments they've got small patios and we need to make sure we tailor our assortment and our presentation to recognize their needs and to make sure we're more locally relevant.
So we're certainly seeing a lot of time looking at food and as we think about the food reinvention a lot of this is going to be driven by making sure we have locally relevant brands those hometown favorites and also in broader categories like patio and furniture making sure that we're matching up our assortment in-store with the needs of that local guests.
So a lot of additional work for us to do but we're really pleased with the progress and I talked about 1 to 2 point lift versus the test and control stores adds a very important measure for us to continue to evaluate.
And working with John and our merged team we'll be looking o rapidly rollout the learning from Chicago into other relevant markets.
From a digital standpoint David obviously we continue to see really positive response to some of our efforts like cartwheel and cartwheel has now been downloaded over 18 million times.
And every time I am in-stores I run into guests that have their smartphone in their hand and they're looking for their offers from cartwheel but we also recognized that Target is a brand that is talked about in social media everyday thousands of times every day.
So if you were to visit our headquarter here in Minneapolis just down the hall from my office we have what we call guest central it is our guest command center where we're monitoring what people are talking about what they're blogging about how Target is being referenced in the news and we're making sure we're very engaged with those bloggers and making sure that we're in the discussion.
So it's a very important part of how we think about the brand and making sure that we incorporate social into our overall brand development initiatives.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Looking forward to working with you guys in your new capacity as we move forward.
The stock obviously was up a lot earlier today it has kind of rolled over and I think it's the sales line that people may be a little concerned about.
The 1% to 2% guidance in the third quarter but also that we'll look out over time SG&amp;A saves obviously tapered down and so as you look out to '16 and '17 getting the sales line moving is going to be more important here.
I know Brian you pointed to some things like the signature categories but I was wondering what else gives you confidence we actually have a lot of confidence because we got a focused group that stay in touch that people are really responding to what you guys are doing.
But in your words what gives you the confidence we can see sales trend higher overtime? I think it starts Scott with the reaction we've seen from the guests at some of the changes we made in signature categories.
And when I think about in today's marketplace apparel growing at 4% to 5% the changes we've seen and the reaction we've seen from the guest to our home offering.
The fact that within kids toys growing this quarter at 12% and while again still in the early stages the reaction to some of the changes we're making in our food assortment.
The reaction that guests is taking to made to matter and our wellness initiatives gives me a tremendous amount of confidence that as we continue to bring great design fashion quality and excitement to our signature categories and combine that with the opportunity to reinvent food to bring the right assortment that meets the needs of our guests that to me is the magic to unlock sustainable sales growth to Target and make sure we're driving traffic to our stores more visits to our site and it gets back fundamentally Scott I believe we win and will continue to grow by combining a great store experience the convenience of allowing our guests to order online and pick up in our stores whenever they want and also be able to ship directly to their homes and using our stores as flexible fulfillment centers to make sure that response is a quick one.
So I'm very optimistic about the future.
I think you're starting to see that embedded in the results and the results in signature categories is very encouraging for us.
We're getting great feedback from the guests.
As I think about the third quarter we expect plan to be a really exciting initiative and the buzz that we're seeing already is really positive.
So we've got work to do on food but when we reinvent food and get the assortment right there and improve the presentation I think that gives us all great confidence that we're going to continue to drive traffic to our stores and that's going to convert to really solid and sustainable comps.
And maybe just I hate to be the short term focus but the question I get all the time as we look at the fourth quarter where you're going to be going over a pretty significant comp from last year.
How should we think about that I mean a lot of people look at stacks you guys have good stacks or how do you think we should start framing the fourth quarter maybe a thought there? I think we can all drive ourselves crazy doing two year three year five year stacks whatever you want but in this case I do think the two year of stack is important.
We've continued to see our two year stacks improve if you do last year's Q4 against the previous Q4 you know the average there is about or the number there is about a 1-3.
So we expect to cycle past that this Q4 and we've seen putting our putting the implied guidance you guys can do a rough number around that putting that against last year's comp will be an acceleration of our two year stack and so we feel good about that and I think to the points Brian just made part of it is we need to continue to grow we feel confident we’re going to continue to grow and comp against whatever it is we delivered in the prior year and we feel good about doing that we feel great about our fourth quarter plans we're cognizant that that's an intensely competitive time of year we'll be very promotional we're not going to get beat on promotions and we'll be in the game and we feel really good about what we'll offer the guests in Q4.
And Scott honestly we'll update our guidance for the fourth quarter at a later date but trust me we're spending a tremendous amount of time evaluating our plans week by week in the fourth quarter.
I spent time just yesterday with our team going through our fourth quarter plans our merchandizing plans our marketing plans how we’re going to approach the key holiday periods.
And to me it's all about making sure we've got the right content we have got to have great product.
We certainly know we need to make sure we're winning from a promotional standpoint but then we got to make sure we surround the guest with a great experience and really iconic marketing.
And I think we're going to combine a great in store with an online experience and be very competitive and well prepared for the fourth quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt McClintock with Barclays.
I was just wondering if we could focus just I know we focused on you have talked a lot about the signature categories you have talked a lot about supply chain but could we focus on and you've also talked about food can you focus a little bit on electronics continued weakness there clearly the industry itself is a little bit challenged but a lot of consumer interest in new products in that category especially as we go into the holiday season this upcoming holiday season you’re talking about the fourth quarter maybe dive a little bit into what you’re doing there in that specific category to maybe try to gain market share and what is the challenge category? Thank you.
Yes so Matt I’m not going to go through the details of our plans.
We’ll kind of maintain that powder for the fourth quarter but we’re certainly looking at newness in electronics.
We’re looking at categories where we think we’re uniquely positioned to win so working very closely with our suppliers to ensure that we have the right newness that we’re ready with the right presentation I think there is a lot of exciting things in the pipeline.
We certainly think as we continue to focus on wellness that variable technology is a space where we can and will win.
But we also recognized right now that many of those categories are waiting for new innovation and we’re working closely with our key suppliers to make sure that we’re going to be bringing that innovation to the guest and featuring it throughout the fourth quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Two quick ones first on the digital side obviously impressive growth 30% I think the longer term plan closer to 40% so curious two things one what kind of gets that channel growing faster the next couple of years and related to that a number of large retailers out there are opening up dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers.
I don’t believe you guys have those is that something that make sense for Target as you think out over the next few years? I’ll take the second one first and then let Brian comment on the growth.
I think on our supply chain for the digital channel we actually have six dedicated fulfillment centers and we think the combination of fulfillment centers with our exciting regional distribution centers and along with the stores gives us all of the capability we need and then you’ll see us continue to grow the store channel our regional distribution channel all three of those channels as ways to fulfill depending on the product and how quickly the guest wants it.
Yes and Peter I’ll step back and just talk about the fundamentals.
We got to continue to make sure that we build awareness.
We got to make sure that as our guest engages with us digitally we make it really easy and we make it easy to find product and easy checkout experience.
We believe that available to promise which will roll-out this fall will give our guest the confidence that they know where the product is and when it will arrive for them either in a store for them to pick up or being available directly to their home.
So we’re focused on making sure that we provide not only a great in-store but a great digital experience and we’re going to make sure that we continue to make our site easy to work with and more and more that’s the mobile interchange that we’ve got to make sure is easy for our guest to find product and checkout.
We want to give them the confidence that when they order they know it’s available to promise and we’re going to have it there for them when they need it.
And to the point John made we don’t need to be building upstream DCs we’re going to continue to convert more of our stores and as we go in the fourth quarter close to 450 that will act as flexible fulfillment centers to make sure that we can quickly and efficiently get product to the guest.
So those fundamentals are critically important as we think about driving industry leading growth.
Sorry my bad on the DC question but thank you for that.
And quickly over to SG&amp;A I think you guys have outlined 1.5 billion over the next couple of years in savings $500 million maybe coming this year where are you trending towards those savings how are those savings kind of corporate versus in-store I’m just curious kind of how like store level payroll dollars compared today versus let’s say a year ago? Yes so we’re right on track with the savings we’ve got programs identified to deliver the entirety to 2 billion to 1.5 billion in SG&amp;A plus the cost of good saving so we feel really good about that we’re on track for our commitment for this year as well.
One of the things we talked about when we had first announced this and we’ve talked about it in a great detail and the company is -- the stores are already productive and if we’re going to take hours out of the store it will be because we eliminate work to the point Brian made earlier move work upstream into the distribution centers.
And so we’re not focused on taking hours out of the store.
We’re focused on taking work out and we are in the process of working through that that’s a little bit longer lead process than some of the other things we’ve done.
But we’re focused on essentially freeing up those hours in the store and then we’ll decide do we need them for improved guest service or how we’ll utilize them.
But in fact we have -- there is a couple of areas where we have invested hours back into the store as we have put in the whole merchandising sets and as we have put in mannequins we’ve realized the need for dedicated store team members who can merchandise those displays and make them look great all the time.
So that’s an area where we’ve invested back into the store.
Your final question will come from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
John I can’t let you get promoted without hitting with a finance question so how much the credit helped you said credit I think was a benefit in the quarter profit share how much did that help in the quarter and linked to that how should we think about SG&amp;A dollar growth I mean it sounds like third quarter will be up 1 to 2 in the comp but it was flat in the second quarter what's the normal run rate there now? Good question on the credit side the benefit it was up but not meaningful and it was less than I would say less than half a penny of improvement versus last year so very-very small we are pleased it was up given that as we said payment rates continue to go up and so we're seeing the portfolio continue to shrink so clearly a portion of where the gas dollars are going at least from our perspective.
SG&amp;A through time we'd expect to lever SG&amp;A go up over the long-term here go up modestly slower than sales growth.
I think we said we're going to continue to take expense out but we also said that the majority of that expense will likely get reinvested so I wouldn't count on big reductions in our SG&amp;A overtime there will be places where we have to add back expense to meet the needs of our guests I just talked about in the stores.
So modestly slower than sales growth over the long-term would be what I’d say.
Okay thank you.
And for all you that concludes our second quarter earnings conference call.
And I really appreciate you joining us today so thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday November 18 2015.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Vice President - Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan Chief Operating Officer; and Cathy Smith Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Brian will discuss our third quarter performance including results across our merchandise categories and plans for the fourth quarter and remainder of the year; then John will provide an update on our operations and priorities going forward; and finally Cathy will offer more detail on our third quarter financial performance and discuss our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Following the remarks we’ll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we’re joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following the call Cathy and I will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Also in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure and return on invested capital which is a ratio based on GAAP information with the exception of adjustments made to capitalized operating leases.
Reconciliations to our GAAP EPS and to our GAAP total rent expense are included in this morning’s press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website.
With that I’ll turn it over to Brian for his perspective on our third quarter performance.
Brian? Thanks John.
And good morning everyone.
As we step back and look at our third quarter results and our year-to-date performance it’s clear that our strategy is working and we’re delivering on the financial commitments we laid out last March.
Following an extended period of declines traffic has turned positive over the last four quarters and it’s been accelerating on a two-year basis.
Sales in signature categories have been growing much faster than our overall sales and they’re clearly exceeding industry benchmarks.
So while consumers continue to spend cautiously we feel confident as we enter the holiday season.
And we’re focused on continuing to deliver on both our strategic priorities and our financial goals.
As we mentioned in our last conference call our third quarter plans were based on the knowledge that we are facing stronger prior year comparisons than we had experienced earlier in the year.
Now with the quarter behind us I am pleased to report that not only did we meet our forecast we saw continued progress on our strategy.
Specifically two-year growth trends in comp sales traffic and signature category performances each accelerated in the third quarter following strong performance in the second quarter.
Our third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.86 was 8.6% higher than last year and above the midpoint of our guidance range we provided at the beginning of the quarter.
Third quarter comparable sales were up 1.9% also near the high-end of our guidance and driven primarily by growth in traffic.
We are really pleased that our guests are responding to the investments we’re making in our assortment presentation and shopping experience.
And we’re focused on building on this year’s traffic increases in both stores and our digital platforms in the quarters and years ahead.
Our third quarter gross margin rate was down slightly to last year reflecting the benefits of a favorable merchandising mix and the comparison over last year’s intense promotional markdowns.
These benefits were offset by reimbursement pressure in pharmacy combined with the impact on investments in quality and innovation on our owned and exclusive brands.
Third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were solid and in line with our expectation as Cathy will cover in a few minutes.
We reported a very healthy after-tax return on invested capital of 13% this quarter nearly 2 percentage points higher than a year ago as progress on our strategic priorities has driven improved profitability on a relatively stable base of invested capital.
Given the stable performance we continue to have capacity to invest in our business while returning a compelling amount of cash to our shareholders.
This quarter we will return well over $1 billion through a combination of dividends and share repurchases bringing our total cash return to well over $3 billion so far this year.
Consistent with our guidance our third quarter comp sales increase was somewhat smaller than the second quarter.
From a category perspective the entire change of pace in sales was attributable to apparel and electronics.
In apparel third quarter comp sales grew just under 3% compared with nearly 5% in the second quarter.
This slowdown was correlated with warm weather in September followed by a reacceleration when somewhat cooler temperatures arrived in October.
In the electronics category we saw a double-digit decline in the third quarter comp sales.
This performance reflects the comparison over last year’s most intense electronic promotions which occurred in August and the continued softness in tablets consistent with industry trends.
One standout in electronics was wearable devices part of the signature Wellness category where we saw nearly 100% growth in comparable sales.
Another standout was our Toy category part of the signature Kids business which matched its second quarter growth with another 12% comp sales increase this quarter.
Beyond strength in licensed products growth in toys was broad-based across multiple sub categories including small dolls LEGO action toys and board games.
We were also pleased with third quarter results from seasonal programs beginning with solid performance in back-to-school and back-to-college all the way through Halloween when we saw very strong increases in costumes and décor and solid growth in candy.
And to show you why are we so excited about the upcoming Star Wars release we had the number one market share in Star Wars when we launched it in our store back in September.
Looking through the lens of our category roles third quarter comp sales growth was led by signature categories which grew more than two and a half times as fast as our overall sales.
And as I mentioned given the tougher prior year comparisons our two-year stack comps in signature categories were stronger in the third quarter than either of the first two quarters of this year.
Beyond toys and wearable electronics our third quarter standouts within signature included baby and kids’ apparel women’s ready to wear and wellness items and food.
In food overall for the first time this year third quarter comp sales growth outpaced comp sales overall as our work to reinvigorate this category is beginning to shape our performance.
In key categories like yogurt where we added premium and better-for-you brands we saw high single digit comp sales increase in the third quarter.
We saw similar comp increases in craft beer and wine reflecting our work to enhance the assortment and bring locally relevant brands to our guests.
Looking forward we will continue to enhance our food assortment with a focus on wellness local relevance and seasonally appropriate items.
And following the holiday season we will begin testing changes to food shopping environment in a set of 25 remodels scheduled for the LA market along with a set of SuperTarget remodels scheduled for next year.
Digital sales increased 20% in the third quarter contributing about 40 basis points to our comp sales increase.
While significantly outpacing the industry this performance was well below our expectation of 30% growth which we outlined in the last call.
As we look at the drivers of this performance it’s clear the third quarter softness in electronics was particularly impactful online.
And like our stores digital sales growth in apparel was slower during much of the quarter correlating with the relatively warm weather across much of the country.
We know that our digital investments drive engagement and sales in all of our channels.
And we are pleased that our third quarter sales were near the high end of our expectations.
However we believe we have an opportunity to accelerate digital transactions by enhancing the experience on Target.com.
Beyond our efforts to streamline the guest experience on our site our team is rolling out multiple initiatives that we expect to drive digital traffic and sales over time.
And once again this holiday season we expect to be offering free shipping on all digital orders.
We are very pleased with the guest response to this offer a year ago and we expect it to be a key differentiator for Target again this holiday season.
Regardless of where our guest demand is ultimately fulfilled in a store or in a guest front porch we know the vast majority of our sales in all of our channels are digitally enabled.
For example our guests access our brands through a digital device both in advanced hub and during their trip to one of our stores.
As a result we don’t think that digital is simply a selling channel but a critical enabler of the shopping experience in all of our channels.
This has significant strategic implications both in terms of organizational structured and the way we reward our team.
Since I arrived last year we have been evolving our approach to focus first on our core guests and build a total Target assortment that best serves the needs and expectations of our guest.
Only after we have determined the appropriate assortment do we plan on how to offer it to each of our selling channels.
Consider efforts in signature categories.
For more than a year now we’ve been investing in these categories with the expectation that they will grow most rapidly and we’ve seen this play out in all of our channels.
In fact even while our digital footprint remains relatively small we’re approaching $1 billion of annual sales in our home category making us one of the leading digital retailers in the states.
As we look ahead to the holidays we are excited about our merchandising and marketing plans and we believe we’ll further differentiate Target during a critical retail season.
In hardlines Toys has already turned in a terrific performance so far this year.
And we expect this strength to continue throughout the fourth quarter when we simply generate half of our annual toy sales.
This year more than 15% of our toy assortment is exclusive to Target including the exclusive BB-8 Droid from the upcoming Star Wars movie which we expect to be a top seller.
We’re also bringing back our Kids’ Wish List back this year with enhanced features to make it easy and fun for family and friends to shop for the perfect gift for every kid in their life.
Our gift catalog featuring more than 700 items was distributed to 40 million guests this year through direct mail newspaper and distribution in our stores.
On Cartwheel we’re seeing great results from our daily toy deal which is featuring a different toy at 50% off every day through December 24th.
And finally we’re bringing everything together on our kids gifting hub on Target.com which is designed to make shopping easy for parents and gift givers while create a destination as fun and inspirational for kids.
In electronics we’re excited to be one of the few retailers offering the Apple Watch in stores this season.
And we expect this item to be a top gift item in wearable categories.
Also in wearables we partnered with UNICEF to offer their kids our band which encourages kids to get more active and based on the point they accumulate improve the lives of kids around the world.
We also expect drones [ph] to be a big hit this season.
So we’re featuring nearly 20 in-store and about four times as many online.
We’re planning for a big season in video games a key gifting category where hardware prices continue to moderate and software libraries continue to grow.
And in entertainment where we’re very excited to be featuring a Target exclusive version of Adele’s new 25 release that features three bonus tacks available only at Target.
As we enter the holiday season about 1 400 of our stores are featuring mannequins in apparel which is around double the number we had a year ago.
Also this year we’ve enhanced the shopping experience by updating presentations in home and electronics in more than 200 additional stores for each group.
So we feel great about the ability of our stores to showcase our assortment.
And this year when our guests shop at Target for the holidays they’ll find assortment focused on three key things entertaining; decorating; and gifting.
To support each of these themes we’ve invested in quality and differentiation featuring real marble hand carved wood copper accent and genuine leather.
In fact more than 20% of our holiday gifting items are handcrafted this year.
In food we’re highlighting exclusive brands and flavors including Republic of Wine our new exclusive brand which features unique discoveries from around the world.
We’re rolling out classic holiday and flavors in Archer Farms and we’re offering exclusive indulgent seasonal flavors from great natural brand partners with M&amp;M’s Hershey’s Dove and Ghirardelli.
And finally anticipation’s building for Black Friday which is just over a week away.
Once again this year we’re opening our stores at 6:00 pm on Thanksgiving and our team is already preparing to deliver a combination of great deals and a shopping experience that makes Target different from everyone else.
But we’re committed to offering compelling savings value beyond the traditional Black Friday event.
Beginning this Sunday we’ll launch 10 days of deals on electronics kitchenware toys and more which will run through Tuesday December 1st.
This Sunday’s Weekly Ad we’ll also revel special deals from our Black Friday presale which takes place on Wednesday November 2015.
For our guests who prefer to shop digitally all of our Black Friday deals will be offered on Target.com.
And finally guests who spend $75 or more on Friday November 27th will receive a voucher for 20% off on future purchases redeemable from December 4th through the 13th.
Last March in our meeting with the financial community we outlined our plan to grow profitably by focusing on a set of key enterprise priorities.
And while we have much more work to do we remain committed to that plan and our pleased with our progress so far.
Through the first three quarters of 2015 we have successfully grown traffic sales and profits a bit faster than we originally expected by focusing on our core guests and providing them with differentiated assortment and the experience they expect and deserve.
But we’re not slowing down because we see enormous opportunity still ahead of us.
We are going to continue to focus on elevating the assortment quality and the presentation in our signature categories.
Across every category we will differentiate Target assortment by providing exclusive items from both our national branded partners and one of a kind items from our outstanding product design and development team.
And while we’re encouraged with the recent acceleration in food sales we are still in a very early stages of our work to provide a unique assortment of fresh local and healthy items to our guests.
And finally while I’m pleased we’ve already made early progress in our efforts to improve our in-stock performance I believe we’ve got a multiyear opportunity to improve our reliability both in-stores and in digital channels by modernizing way we work and refocusing on retail fundamentals.
Now I’ll turn the call over to John Mulligan who will discuss this team’s early efforts to improve operations as well as John’s priorities going forward.
John? Thanks Brain.
Good morning everyone.
Today I’m going to provide an update on our initial efforts to reinforce our retail fundamentals particularly our in-stock position and I’ll cover our priorities and progress in our work to modernize the supply chain in support of our strategic initiatives.
The good news is that while we have lots of work still ahead of us we have seen meaningful improvement in key in-stock measures based on changes we’ve made in the last few months.
While we stride to be in-stock on every item in every store throughout every day we know that need-based commodity categories are the most critical.
If our guests don’t believe that they can rely on Target to have their shopping list items available every time they shop they will begin to skip some trips to Target even though they enjoy shopping our more discretionary categories.
As a result when in-stock metrics on our core commodity categories began deteriorating this year we created an out of stock action team to conduct deep dives by category to identify both short-term and long-term solutions.
When the team identifies solutions within a category we can quickly test them to confirm they improve our performance and then determine if those solutions can be applied more broadly.
This team focused first on our household personal baby category and more recently they’ve done work on our center store grocery category.
In a short amount of time they’ve identified opportunities related to the way we generate vendor orders optimize tradeoffs between order quantities and frequency and our reliance on system generated solutions versus manual processes.
In high-volume stores the team has implemented adjustments to planograms to enhance holding capacity on fast turning SKUs reducing the need for frequent store replenishment.
And in our distribution centers the team has identified opportunities to reduce lead-time variability tighten delivery windows and in some cases increase safety stock on key items.
I should note that this increase in safety stock is one of the drivers of the 4% inventory growth we reported at the end of the quarter.
In a very short-time the results of our efforts have been encouraging.
In household personal baby we’ve been able to reduce overall out of stock measures by approximately 50% in about eight weeks.
In centers for grocery in less than a month the team was able to reduce out of stock measures by about 25%.
And importantly we’ve been able to reduce out of stock even further on the items most important to our guests.
Given these encouraging initial results the team is moving quickly to scale these solutions to a broader set of categories throughout the store and conducting additional deep dives in categories like health and beauty.
Looking ahead the team has a number of key priorities including work to optimize case packs which will better accommodate variability in store sales volume across our network.
In addition they are implementing technology and process improvement to improve count integrity throughout our stores and distribution network.
Included in these efforts will be a test of RFID technology in a few of our apparel categories to gauge the effectiveness of the technology relative to the cost of implementation.
This work has been supported by the rollout of an agile technology development in partnership with Mike McNamara our new Chief Information Officer and our newly hired Senior Vice President of Operational Excellence Anu Gupta.
We are very excited to have Anu on the team.
She has more than 20 years of relevant experience in driving operational excellence by leveraging best practices in a variety of operating models including procurement and lean six sigma process redesign across the range of industries including retail.
We are confident Anu will accelerate the efforts of the outstanding team we already have in place.
Beyond our work to improve reliability our store teams are working diligently to support Target’s efforts to become more flexible in the way we fulfill guest demand.
As a result of last year’s rollout of ship-from-store capability stores have already shipped more than 10 million items directly to guests so far this year.
And the percent of digital orders delivered in a three-day window has more than doubled compared with a year ago.
To showcase this improvement in our capabilities last quarter we rolled out new functionality we call available-to-promise which offers guests a more precise shipping window.
With available-to-promise we expect nearly two-thirds of our digital orders will offer our guests a delivery window of three business days or fewer compared with our typical window of four to seven business days prior to the rollout.
We recently expanded our ship-from-store capability to more than 300 additional stores bringing the total to more than a quarter of the chain.
This will enable about 40% of digital transactions to be shipped from our stores in the fourth quarter.
In addition two new direct-to-guest fulfillment centers became operational in the third quarter in advance of the holiday season.
With the expanded capacity these changes provide we expect to continue making progress on shipping speed next year.
As Brian mentioned most of our store sales are digitally enabled so we continue to integrate digital experiences into the stores.
Guest increasingly use Cartwheel a digital savings app with more than 20 million authenticated users to plan their store chips in advance and then use the app to search for additional deals while shopping in store.
In addition because 10% to 15% of our digital orders are picked up in stores we’re exploring ways to streamline the pickup process by expanding holding capacity at the service counter and implementing process improvements to reduce wait times.
For next year’s LA25 remodels we will feature all of latest merchandising enhancements.
We will test changes to the frontend that will make order pickup even more convenient including dedicated investors to help store guests better understand Target’s digital capabilities.
Before I turn the call over to Cathy I want to thank our store and distribution center teams for their great performance so far this year and for their current efforts to ensure we provide an outstanding guest experience this holiday season.
It’s an enormous challenge for both our stores and distribution teams to accommodate the surge in volumes we see at Black Friday.
But our store teams don’t focus only on moving merchandise.
They focus first on our guests and do an amazing amount of preparation to ensure guests have a pleasant and safe experience.
It’s one of the many things that makes Target unique and one of the reasons why guests love our stores and our brand.
With that I will turn it over Cathy who will share her insights on our third quarter financial performance and our outlook for the fourth quarter and full year.
Cathy? Thanks John.
And hello everyone.
As Brian mentioned earlier we’re pleased that this quarter’s performance was near the high-end of our guidance for both sales and adjusted EPS.
As is often the case when you get into the detailed P&amp;L there were some ins and outs within the quarter that generally offset each other which I’ll cover in a few minutes.
This quarter adjusted EPS was $0.86 above the midpoint of our guidance range and 8.6% above last year.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.76 $0.10 lower than adjusted EPS driven by $0.05 of asset-impairments $0.03 of data breach expense and $0.02 related to the corporate restructuring we announced last spring.
Third quarter GAAP EPS was $0.87 compared with the $0.55 a year ago as this year we recognized $0.11 of tax benefits related to our investment losses in Canada while last year we incurred $0.27 of after-tax losses related to Canadian operations.
Let’s turn to third quarter segment results.
Among the drivers of our 1.9% comparable sales growth we are pleased that traffic grew a very healthy 1.4% in the third quarter.
This growth is even more encouraging when we look at performance on a two-year basis as we faced a tougher comparison in the third quarter than either of the first two quarters of the year.
October marked our 12th straight month of traffic growth.
And we are laser focused on his metric as a key indicator of the health of our business over time.
Breaking out our sales growth between stores and our digital platforms the stores accounted for a little over three quarters of our comparable sales growth while digital contributed about 40 basis points to our third quarter comp.
Consistent with results from earlier in the year our digital growth continues to be driven by a meaningful improvement in conversion.
And although we have seen an acceleration in the last two months we haven’t seen a growth in digital traffic we expected to see this year.
We believe our biggest opportunity to drive traffic continues to be our work to streamline and enhance the digital experience.
Third quarter REDcard penetration was 22.3% up about 130 basis points from a year ago.
And we remain on track to meet our guidance for an increase of 100 basis points or more for the full-year.
As you’ll recall we tested REDcard rewards in the Kansas City market for a year before we launched the program nationwide.
With the benefit of that head start penetration in Kansas City continues to run well ahead of the rest of the country giving us confidence that we have continued room to grow this rewards program in the years ahead.
In addition we are optimistic that the industry’s move to EMV or Chip-and-PIN technology will help restore confidence in the U.S.
payment system and increase the willingness of consumers to add new cards to their wallets.
Regarding our move to EMV we are pleased to be one of only a few large retailers in the United States that are accepting chip cards for both credit and debit transactions in advance of this holiday season.
We’ve already reissued chip cards to about half of our Target branded debit and credit card holders.
And we expect to complete the rollout early next year following a pause for the holiday season.
Our third quarter segment EBITDA and EBIT margin rates were both about 20 basis points higher than last year consistent with our guidance as strong SG&amp;A performance offset the impact of a lower than expected gross margin rate.
On the gross margin line third quarter performance was about 10 basis points below last year short of our expectations.
While we continue to benefit from the comparison to last year’s promotions the benefit is waning as the intensity of those promotions began to taper in the third quarter of last year.
In addition consistent with results from earlier in the year we are seeing continued margin pressure from quality investments in our owned and exclusive brands.
Finally this quarter we saw a reimbursement pressure in our pharmacy business which we expect to continue until we complete the sale of this business to CVS.
I want to pause for a moment and comment on the CVS transaction.
We continue to work closely with the CVS team to obtain regulatory approval for the transaction.
And while we don’t have an update on the potential timing for the transaction to close we are pleased with our progress to-date.
Turning back to the third quarter P&amp;L on the SG&amp;A expense line we saw unexpectedly strong performance in the third quarter about 30 basis points lower than last year.
As part of our efforts to control cost this quarter’s expense rate benefitted from the discontinuation of an outdated little used retiree medical plan but we also saw discipline across the organization which drove outstanding underlying performance.
Even on the marketing line where some expenses were retimed into the third quarter from the second quarter last year we recognized savings in other programs that led to overall favorability compared with last year.
As John mentioned and consistent with last quarter our inventory position at the end of the third quarter was about 4% above last year.
This reflects a significant improvement from the higher year-over-year increases we were seeing earlier this year.
And while inventory growth is slightly higher than our pace of sales it reflects changes in receipt timing compared with last year combined with the intentional investments we are making in commodity categories to improve our in-stock position.
As a result we feel very good about our inventory position going into the holiday season in relation to both our sales planned and our work to improve in-stock reliability.
Turning back to consolidated metrics third quarter interest expense was a $151 million $5 million higher than last year.
Our third quarter effective tax rate on continuing operations was 34.3% up from 30.6% last year when we recognized a $30 million benefit from the resolution of tax matters.
We paid third quarter dividends of $352 million up about 7% from last year.
And given our cash position and continued strong business results we have the opportunity to invest another $924 million in share repurchase this quarter.
Given our long ranged plan to generate profitable growth we believe the continued opportunity to retire shares will prove to be a productive use of cash.
To illustrate that point under our current $10 billion share repurchase program we have retired more than 77 million shares representing more than 12% of our current shares outstanding at an average price of less than $69.
As Brian mentioned our after tax return on invested capital or ROIC was a very healthy 13% for the trailing 12 months through the third quarter.
This is nearly 2 percentage points higher than last year when our business results were under pressure following the data breach.
Given our plan to generate profitable growth on a relatively stable base of invested capital we expect to continue to grow this metric over time with a goal to reach the mid teens or higher in the next five years.
Now let’s turn to our guidance for the fourth quarter and what that guidance implies for our expected full year performance.
As we look ahead to the holiday season we are mindful that the consumer remains cautious and there are indications that heavy inventory levels at some competitors.
However we remain focused on the things we can control and what has been working all year.
These include our ability to deliver on our expect more pay less brand promise by offering great products at a compelling value iconic marketing that guests love and an outstanding store experience that differentiates Target from everyone else.
With that context we expect to deliver a fourth quarter comparable sales increase of 1% to 2% consistent with our third quarter guidance.
Underlying that guidance we expect digital growth of about 20% consistent with our third quarter performance.
Before I move down -- further down the Q4 P&amp;L I want to pause and discuss a challenge we hear a lot which is based on the acceleration in two-year stacked performance we are planning for the fourth quarter.
John answered this question last call but I think it’s worth addressing in more detail today.
Last year our fourth quarter comparable sales growth was 3.8% but that was on top of a 2.5% sales decline in the fourth quarter 2013 when we announced the data breach on the weekend before Christmas.
So while the analysis of multiyear sales performance isn’t always useful I think in this case it’s important to think about a three-year stack of our comp sales.
Specifically if we hit the midpoint of our fourth quarter sales guidance the simple three-year stack would be a 2.8% comp slightly less than the 3% three-year stack we’ve delivered year-to-date.
So while there are always risks to every sales forecast we don’t believe the two-year stack provides useful insight in this case.
Moving back to the P&amp;L we expect our fourth quarter EBITDA margin rate to be flat to down slightly from last year’s 9.8% rate.
Among the drivers of EBITDA margin we expect moderate gross margin rate decline to be offset by a similar improvement in our SG&amp;A expense rate this quarter.
We expect our fourth quarter interest expense to be consistent with our third quarter and our tax rate is expected to be approximately 34% as we annualize over last year’s favorable resolution of tax matters.
With our current cash position and expected business results we’ve planned to continue repurchasing our shares this quarter and we’ll continue to manage the magnitude and pace of repurchase activity with the goal of maintaining our current investment grade ratings.
Altogether this performance would lead to fourth quarter adjusted EPS of $1.48 to $1.58 compared with a $1.49 in fourth quarter 2014.
Let’s look at what this guidance implies for our expectations for full year 2015 financial performance which I’ll compare to the guidance we provided at our financial community meeting last March.
At that meeting we laid out an expectation for 2015 comparable sales growth in the range of 1.5% to 2%.
Given our year-to-date performance and fourth quarter expectations we expect our full year comps to remain firmly in that range.
I would note that the channel mix of our sales has been different than expectations.
Specifically with year-to-date digitals sales growth of 29% and our expected 20% growth in the fourth quarter it’s clear that in 2015 we don’t expect to attain the longer term 40% goal we laid out in March.
However we’ve delivered on our overall comparable sales goal every quarter this year and we still expect to deliver industry leading digital sales growth both important benchmarks for us.
In March we laid out an expectation to grow our segment EBITDA margin rate by 20 to 30 basis points for the year and we’re on track to outperform that expectation with growth closer to 40 to 50 basis points in 2015.
Regarding capital deployment we are on track to meet our guidance for 5% to 10% dividend growth this year and we’ve already met our goal for $2 billion or more in share repurchases through the first three quarters of the year.
And finally we told you in March that we expected to generate $4.45 to $4.65 in adjusted EPS for the year.
And despite a challenging backdrop with our updated guidance today we’re positioned to deliver performance at the high end or above that range for the year.
Beyond my love for the brand I was attracted to Target because of our singular focus on delighting our guests and our tremendous desire to win.
It’s evidenced across our stores online team distribution centers and headquarters.
I recently visited one of our stores and had the opportunity to meet Bev who has been with the Company for an amazing 44 years.
In her current role Bev is involved and they ship-from-store process and she says their whole team loves this new capability because it allows our stores to drive sales by serving guests in new ways.
Now that I’ve been emerged in our business for the past three months I’m mindful of the opportunity ahead of us and the work we still need to do to accomplish.
But I’m encouraged by the progress we’ve seen already.
Traffic has increased for a full year; signature categories are leading our sales every quarter and with a renewed focus on retail fundamentals and the dedication of team members like Bev we are delivering on our vision to provide shopping on demand while maintaining our focus on everyday in-stock reliability across our store network.
The ultimate measure of this year’s accomplishment can be seen in our earnings.
We’ve delivered a 16.9% increase in our adjusted earnings per share so far this year.
And with our fourth quarter guidance we’re well-positioned to deliver double-digit growth for the year.
We’re excited about this initial progress and we remain laser focused on building on this momentum over time.
With that we’ll conclude today’s prepared remarks.
Now Brain John and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo Securities.
First Brain I’m hoping that we can get a little bit of a pulse of the consumer from you.
Clearly there’s been some weather impact in September and October but we’re hearing negative comments about November from another -- a number of retailers.
So it feels like there’s something else happening either from a macro or maybe a competitive standpoint.
I’d love to get your sense for what you’re hearing from your customers or guests? Matt I’d tell you we’re feeling really good about the trends we’re seeing the reaction we’re getting from the guests.
Certainly the growth in traffic for us is really encouraging.
So we’re seeing more Target guests come back to our stores and visit our sites.
And they are continuing to respond very positively to the work we’ve done in signature categories.
So sitting here today we are very confident about our position.
We think we are connecting with the consumer and our guest.
And I feel fantastic about the plans we have in place for the fourth quarter.
So while obviously still cautious as we sit here early in November we feel very good about the way the consumer and the guest is responding to our brand.
And I feel as if we are really well-positioned for the fourth quarter.
That’s great to hear.
And then just shifting gears to gross margins.
I’m wondering if you can call out the impact of the reimbursement pressure in healthcare and any sense for the total impact or a run rate impact following the closure of your deal with CVS how that could help you next year? And then secondly on gross margin you did call out in the press release private brand investments.
And I’m just wondering if you could dimensionalize the potential size of that over the next few years? Thanks.
Let me talk about the owned brand investments we’re making and then let Cathy talk through the RX implications.
But as we have consistently talked about throughout the last year and year and a half now we think one of the things that differentiates Target is the value; the quality of the innovation we bring to our own brands.
So we’re clearly looking to make sure we bring more value to our owned brands.
I talked about the number of handcrafted items we are going to have for the fourth quarter.
And we’re being very surgical with those investments.
But we’re seeing a great reaction from the guest as we elevate the value we offer in our owned brands.
So we’ll be very surgical very selective but we’re certainly seeing a great return through the investments we’re making.
With regards to the pharmacy reimbursement pressure as we said when we announced the transaction with CVS that we lack scale and we knew that we are going to continue to see pressure here over time.
So what we’re seeing in this quarter is in the range of 15 to 20 basis points of pressure in the quarter and which is why we are excited to be partnering with CVS because they will be able to help with that scale.
Your next question comes from David Schick from Stifel.
Wonder if you could give us any extra color or update on the localization work in Chicago? Right now we are still very focused on testing localization in Chicago; we’re very pleased with the results.
And certainly a lot of the localization’s taking place in our food and beverage offerings; we’re seeing the guests respond to that.
And we are going to take the learning from Chicago and apply it to the 25 stores we’re remodeling in Los Angeles.
So we will continue to expand the learning take it from Chicago to LA.
But I’m very pleased with the progress we’re making.
And we’re partnering with John and the store and supply chain teams to make sure over time we can scale the learning from Chicago and Los Angeles to multiple markets around the country.
So last time you had updated us I think you said 100 to 200 basis-point comp lift.
Does the very pleased sort of mean it’s we’re continuing to see that? We are consistently seeing those kinds of returns.
Got it.
And then quick on the dotcom side of the business.
There was some deceleration and still good growth in that line.
Can you talk about any other metrics that help us understand the shift; is it time spent on the site capabilities what is driving the difference in the growth rate? And it sounds like a growth rate you are comfortable with for next quarter.
I think the most important measure to look at is what’s happening with online growth overall.
And just in last 24 hours we saw the October e-commerce growth rates in the U.S.
and it was up about 8.6%.
The outlook that NRF has for e-commerce growth in the fourth quarter is somewhere between 6% and 8%.
So while our 20% growth rate is not in line with our expectations it’s still dramatically outperforming the industry.
And I think the most important measure we are looking at is the fact that over 80% of our guests start their shopping journey online either at home on their desktop or via the mobile device.
And that digitally influenced guest is coming into our stores more often.
So as we’ve talked about our strategy our strategy is to make sure we allow our guests to shop anywhere anytime they want with Target.
And what we’re seeing right now is they’re voting with their feet to spend more time in our stores.
They are downloading our Cartwheel app; I think 20 million downloads so far to-date.
So I think we’re seeing an overall slowdown in digital growth across retail and we’re really pleased that we continue to outpace the industry dramatically outpace the industry but our digital efforts are driving more traffic into our stores and helping us grow our overall comp.
So while there has been a slowdown broadly across the sector we continue to outpace the industry and that’s our fundamental goal.
Your next question is from Kate McShane from Citi Research.
It’s encouraging to hear that a lot of the investments especially in the signature categories are panning out well for you.
In your merchandising strategies specifically where do you think you still have the most work to do and what can we expect year-over-year when we see those categories for holiday? I think we’re making some very good strides starting in apparel.
And while 3% in Q3 was slightly less than the growth rate we saw in the second quarter compared to many of our peers we recognized that we’re continuing to build traffic and growth in an important apparel category.
So the work we’ve done with mannequins with changing the in-store experience clearly paying off.
One of the changes that we’ve announced recently is the addition of 1 400 visual merchandisers to make sure we combine the changes that we’re ranking with mannequins and fixtures and layouts with experts in-store that can maintain that great in store merchandising experience.
So that’s a new venture for us; we’re standing it up for the holidays; we expect that to continue to strengthen the in-store experience.
And we know with our signature categories we’re still at the very very early stages of standing up our wellness position.
But we feel like we’re in an excellent position with baby and kids feel very good about our performance in the third quarter with kids apparel certainly toys has been a highlight throughout the year and we feel as if we’re well-positioned coming off of second and third quarter comps in toys that were up 12%.
The reaction we’ve seen from the guests to our Star Wars assortment where we captured an industry-leading position and expect to be a destination during the holidays.
So while we still have much more work to do we feel very good about the progress we’re making in signature categories.
And I think the addition of visual merchandisers in-store will help us maintain our merchandising appeal throughout the holidays.
Your next question is from Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.
So I wanted to get back into the food discussion if we could and I think you’re testing stuff in Chicago; you’re going to roll that into LA.
Brian maybe a lot of people don’t know this maybe they do but you had a good experience back when you were at Safeway and then onto Sam’s I think you’ve talked about 200 basis points you were initially seeing.
But what can we expect out of the Company? I think Safeway saw more than that as they kind of brought in some kind of refurbishments.
And when can we expect to see more from Target as far as refreshing the décor and maybe doing a fuller rollout; and is 200 basis points a good expectation? It seems to me it could actually be higher than that as you refine your lift but wanted to get some more details there.
Scott I am glad you asked the question.
I do think one of our highlights in Q3 was the improved performance in food.
I was actually seeing food comp acceleration throughout the year.
And while we haven’t made major changes with fixtures and in-store décor we’ve been very focused on assortment changes and bringing more natural organic local items into many of our categories and we’re seeing the guest react very favorably.
So to me it’s getting the basics right.
And before we start making fixture changes and décor changes it has to start with the right assortment and making sure we have the items the brands our guest is looking for when they shop food at Target.
So the acceleration you’re seeing right now is driven by section-by-section getting the assortment right bringing more appealing items to our guests adding more natural organic gluten-free items that are on trend to those categories.
We made some significant changes in yogurt in the third quarter and saw very very positive responses high single-digit growth rates in those categories.
So while we’re not shouting about it we’re making steady progress in food.
We’ll learn a lot more in 25 stores in Los Angeles where you will see some changes in fixtures and décor.
And as we learn we will continue to grow.
So I think we do have significant upside.
But Scott this is about making sure we get it right.
And we’re going to take a slow steady approach solid consistent results every quarter and continue to deliver what the guest is looking for from an assortment and experience standpoint when they shop food at Target.
So I mean obviously key I think Cathy said you’re measuring one of the big things you look at as frequency and this is obviously a core to that so we look forward to seeing more.
But my follow-up question is on the investment side.
We get it a lot whether it’d be e-commerce whether we’d be in the food in the logistics.
Can you talk us through why there won’t be a massive ramp up in investment as we go out the next couple years and that you have enough money in the CapEx and then kind of SG&amp;A to kind of handle what the Company needs to do? Scott we’ve looked at this very carefully.
And I know we’ve talked about it at a number of times.
We feel very confident that the CapEx budgets we’ve had in place will be very adequate over time to make the changes we need to make from a technology standpoint a supply chain standpoint continue to refresh our stores and maintain our focus on maintenance investments.
So sitting here Cathy and I spent a lot of time recently.
Obviously John has been a great steward of our CapEx spending.
And we feel very comfortable that our current spending levels will allow us to modernize the organization enhance technology improve supply chain and make sure we are on the way we are continuing to enhance the in-store experience and match that up with a great online experience for our guest.
I would offer just real quickly to add to that because we have kind of pressure tested this one ourselves a lot.
We have not -- Target has not underinvested over the years.
And I think that bodes will with the state of where you find our stores as well as our technology and supply chain investments we need.
So I feel very good about where we are.
And with that level of investment we have been pretty consistent.
Your next question is from Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
I would like to ask a two-part question the first relates to the cost cutting initiatives that you discussed at your analyst meeting earlier in the year.
You spoke about the $1.5 billion in SG&amp;A and $0.5 billion on cost of goods over two years.
If you could talk about the run rate that you are at now against those goals.
And I guess another twist on Scott’s question the degree to which you’ve had investments inside that would offset some of those; I think that was also part of the plan that you set forth? So I will jump in and take that.
I think from a tracking perspective what we said right to your point $1.5 billion of SG&amp;A $0.5 billion of margin and we would deliver in 2015 about $0.5 billion of that.
We are running a little bit ahead of that pace and both in the cost of goods and in the SG&amp;A space both are running perhaps a little bit ahead of what we envisioned going into the year.
So we feel really good about that.
I think stepping back and kind of tying this back to Scott’s question the other thing we said at the time was we are taking $2 billion out of the P&amp;L but we didn’t expect EBITDA margin expansion.
And our view was that we would need this to fuel the investments exactly some of the expense investments that perhaps Scott was referring to and this would provide the capacity to do that.
And that is in fact what we are seeing.
We are seeing greatest discipline across the corporation but where we needed to invest we have had the capacity to do that.
If I could ask a quick follow-up.
Can you talk about $0.5 billion this year; is that delivered? I know it’s not been delivered to the bottom-line because there are some offsets but is that annualized run rate achieved or is that actual cost cuts that would have come out on a gross basis against your cost base offset by some of the investments? We will take out $600 million this year.
Yes.
And then the part of next year will be annualization of that and part of it will be incremental.
And then a very quick follow-up on wages.
Obviously Walmart made an incremental announcement since your last call.
Any sense as to whether this issue is kind of bring up organically in the field as you think about hiring and you think about intrinsic wage pressure in the marketplace and how you are thinking about that relative to your plan? Yes we don’t see any material change in the marketplace.
Again we have talked a lot in the past about making sure we are investing to have the best retail team.
And we look at this very surgically year-after-year market-by-market and we think we are in a great position.
And we think we are hiring terrific talent.
And we are excited that we have got a great team in place as we get ready for the holidays.
Your next question is from Greg Melich from Evercore ISI.
I guess my two questions are a bit of a follow-up one on the last one.
If you look at the fourth quarter guidance if I am getting this right SG&amp;A dollars are kind of flattish.
And is that basically that cost out with the reinvestment going in? And then the nature of that question is really I think John you mentioned 40% of digital you thought would be shipped from store in the fourth quarter.
What has it been running and what does that due to the labor model? I will take the first part of it.
To answer your question yes we expected to be essentially flat and it will be pretty much offset; we will have pluses and minuses.
So the savings we are getting we will continue to reinvest as we have planned.
John will answer the 40% digital shipment.
Sure Greg 40% this quarter and it will peak a little bit higher than that actually typically running more in the 20% to 25%.
But as we peak this is a great way for us to utilize our store assets.
The labor model what happens here is actually it’s quite efficient because we have dedicated teams in those stores who do the picking do the packing and we are just able to use them utilize them more efficiently.
So while there is more store labor that we are using the offset clearly comes in our shipping expense because we are much closer to the guest we are shipping to and then on the same P&amp;L line but it’s an outstanding trade for us.
Greg I think it’s important as you tie out the math on the ship from store.
Last year at this time we had just over about 120 stores where we were shipping from store.
As we sit here today we are up to 462.
So we have expanded the base.
We are going to leverage and swept the assets I think much more effectively.
But importantly that enhanced base allows us to deliver to our guests in a much shorter timeframe.
So we would expect that to grow during the holidays.
We have certainly ramped up for it.
And we think that’s going to provide a much better shopping experience and allow us to deliver products to our guests in a much shorter period of time.
That’s helpful.
And if I could follow up I think earlier you talked about private label penetration little bit.
Could you talk about how the stronger dollar or falling raw material costs or lower fuel costs could be impacting gross margin today differently than you would have thought few quarters ago? I’ll answer it briefly and then anyone can chime in.
We’re really not seeing an impact on it in our product cost or in obviously in our margins.
So it’s really been kind of non-event for us.
And remember Greg with many of those items those are long-lead time items.
Yes.
So we’ll certainly be watching that over time.
But as we seat here today many of those orders and deals were placed many many months ago.
So we’ll continue to monitor that over time but we certainly like our position with our own brands as we enter the holidays.
And that’s an important way that we differentiate.
Well operator it looks like we have got time for one more call.
Okay.
Your final question comes from Bob Drbul from Nomura.
Just two quick questions the first one is on the apparel performance.
You talked a little bit about margin pressure I think in private label and exclusive -- was that new to the third quarter; and how do you see that playing out in the fourth quarter? And then the second question I have is on the e-commerce business.
Just give us an update on like the subscription offerings and how that’s going from a fulfillment perspective as well.
Bob first on ANA side again we think the guest is responding really well to some of the changes we’ve made with our own brand assortment.
And the investments that we talked about today we’ve been consistently talking about for over a year now making sure that we’re reinvesting in quality in innovation in style making sure that we deliver that expect more pay less brand promise.
So the guest is reacting really really well to that.
And we’re going to continue to make sure that we deliver great value in our own brands.
So it shouldn’t be a new phenomena; it’s something that we’ve been very clear and transparent about.
And we think it’s paying off with increased traffic and growth in those core signature categories.
So it looks like we’ve run out of time for today.
I do appreciate everyone calling in.
And that will conclude our third quarter earnings call.
So thank you everyone for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Target Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Release Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will invite you to participate in a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 24 2016.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hulbert Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
We apologize for the delay.
We were informed that some people were having trouble accessing our webcast and we delayed in order to make sure that they could access this call along with everyone else.
On the line with me today are Brian Cornell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Mulligan Chief Operating Officer; and Cathy Smith Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Brian will discuss our fourth quarter performance including results across our merchandise categories.
Then John will provide an update on our efforts to improve in-stocks and build our supply-chain capabilities and finally Cathy will offer more detail on our fourth quarter and full year financial performance.
Following the remarks we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder we're joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast.
Following the call Cathy and I will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Also as a reminder any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties the most important of which are described in our SEC filings.
Also in these remarks we refer to adjusted earnings per share which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
And return on invested capital which is a ratio based on GAAP information with the exception of adjustments made to capitalized operating leases.
Reconciliations to our GAAP EPS and our GAAP total rent expense are included in this morning's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website.
Finally one note.
Given that we're hosting our financial community meeting next week our remarks today will focus on Target's fourth quarter performance and our guidance for the first quarter and full year 2016.
At next week's meeting we will provide insights into our strategy and priorities and how they will drive our financial performance in 2016 and beyond.
As a result we are shortening today's call to 45 minutes and we'll look forward to spending another couple hours with all of you either online or in person at next week's meeting in New York.
With that I'll turn it over to Brian for his comments on the fourth quarter and the holiday season.
Brian? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As we look back at both the fourth quarter and the year we are very pleased with the progress we made throughout 2015.
Traffic increased in all four quarters and the team delivered on our comparable sales and operating margin rate goals by driving rapid growth in our signature categories.
And our full year adjusted earnings per share of $4.69 was above the top of the range we provided last March keeping us on track to deliver our longer-term financial goals.
In the fourth quarter our business generated adjusted earnings per share of $1.52 up $0.03 from a very strong performance in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Comp sales grew 1.9% in the fourth quarter building on a 3.8% increase in last year's fourth quarter.
Target's great store experience unique items at an unbeatable value and broad simple promotions resonated with our guests and drove this growth.
Transactions our measure of traffic increased for the fifth quarter in a row up 1.3% in the fourth quarter reflecting growth in all of our selling channels.
Digital sales increased an industry-leading 34% in the fourth quarter on top of 36% growth in the fourth quarter of last year.
Strong Black Friday and Cyber Monday weeks drove this increase.
In fact after setting a new digital daily sales record in the week of Black Friday we shattered all previous records on Cyber Monday.
Our offer was broad and simple 15% off everything on our site.
And the guest response was exceptionally strong.
Our holiday season merchandising and marketing plans were focused on delivering broad simple and compelling offers like our 10 Days of Deals Black Friday doorbusters and the site wide offer on Cyber Monday and the bounce back coupon we offered to guests in our stores on Black Friday all supported by cohesive marketing plans featuring outstanding creative work.
This plan delivered record sales over the November and December period driven by comp sales in our signature categories: style baby kids and wellness which grew nearly 7% over that two-month period.
Sales in kids were particularly strong with the fastest growth in toys and kids home products.
In style we saw the fastest growth in women's apparel led by double-digit increases in ready-to-wear.
And in wellness wearable electronics and food led the way.
Across our traditional category designations apparel grew in the low-single digit range.
In hardlines toys grew comp sales more than 10% in the quarter marking the third quarter of double-digit comp growth in toys.
This strength helped offset a sales decline in electronics where sales benefited from robust growth in wearables but also reflected the impact of industry-wide softness in tablets.
Consistent with the third quarter fourth quarter comp sales in food grew faster than our overall sales outpacing trends in the first half of the year validating the changes we're making to the assortment presentation and freshness.
And finally home grew about 4% in the fourth quarter.
With this performance home delivered a 4% comp sales increase for the full year the strongest annual performance in this category in more than 10 years.
Finally prior to the holiday season we reimagined the See Spot Save area in the front of our stores which is large and a very profitable business and transformed it into Bullseye's Playground.
We've modernized the environment making it easier to navigate more appealing and fun incorporating our much-loved mascot into store displays.
While we love the new look our guest reaction is what really matters.
And the fourth quarter results showed they loved it too as comp sales in Bullseye's Playground grew more than 25% compared to See Spot Save in the fourth quarter of last year.
December marked an important milestone for the company as we closed on the sale of our pharmacy business to CVS Health.
Our team has been working closely with our colleagues at CVS both before and after the sale to ensure this transition is seamless for our team members and our guests.
And while that transition is not yet complete we're very pleased with the progress we've made so far.
A small number of our store pharmacies have already been rebranded as CVS locations and over the next six months we'll complete the rebranding of all of our pharmacies and clinics in stores across the country.
We believe this transaction will create value for our guests providing them access to the capabilities of a best-in-class healthcare provider while they're shopping our stores.
And we expect both Target and CVS to benefit from this transaction allowing both companies to leverage their respective strengths.
Importantly we believe CVS will be able to grow traffic in our store pharmacies faster than we would have been able to do on our own given our lack of scale when we ran this business.
In addition to the ongoing value we'd expect to realize from this arrangement the sale has already provided more than $1 billion of net cash that we'll use in support of our capital deployment priorities.
Turning to capital deployment we generated very strong cash flow in 2015 which we deployed to the benefit of our shareholders.
Beyond funding capital investments in support of our strategic and financial goals in 2015 we returned nearly $5 billion through dividends and share repurchase well ahead of the goal we set at the beginning of the year.
Even with this robust return of cash we ended this year with a very healthy cash balance positioning Target for another strong year in 2016.
Now before I turn the call over to John I want to pause and thank the entire Target team for what they accomplished in 2015.
As I look back to a year ago I believe we're operating on a much stronger foundation today.
And while we've got much more to accomplish on this journey the team today is agile and aligned around a small set of key enterprise priorities allowing us to move much more quickly.
Today the team is taking an outside-in approach to our work understanding how Target fits into the consumer and retail environment as we work to grow the company on behalf of our guests.
When Cathy began working with us last year her first observation was how talented this team is and how passionate they are about both Target and our guests.
Not surprisingly that was my first observation when I arrived at Target in 2014 and something I know John has experienced throughout his career with this great company.
With that I'll turn the call over to John who will discuss his team's progress in efforts to improve our operations.
John? Thanks Brian.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'm going to provide you with a brief update on our work to improve operations.
And I'll provide more detail about our strategy and future plans at the meeting next week.
Our work to reduce out-of-stocks is continuing to pay off as metrics improved sequentially from the third quarter and even more dramatically when compared with the fourth quarter a year ago.
Specifically for the fourth quarter in total out-of-stock metrics were 20% better than last year and notably by the end of the quarter Target's out-of-stock metrics were 40% better than a year ago as the improvements we've implemented allowed for a faster post-holiday recovery this year.
We saw out-of-stock improvements across every category in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned in the last conference call our work has been focused primarily on essential items for which reliability is particularly important for our guest and I'm really happy with our progress.
For the set of focused items we've designated in essentials our out-of-stock metrics are better than we have ever measured.
While this progress is exciting I'm even more pleased that this improvement has been accomplished through systematic and therefore sustainable changes.
In other words this isn't an example of temporarily adding resources to work around systems and processes.
Rather this is a case of making improvements to those systems and processes to support a sustainable improvement in performance.
Because upstream variability in the supply chain hampers our ability to keep our stores in stock and provide tight shipping windows to our guests a key pillar of the team's work is focused on improving freight flow through the supply chain.
As part of this effort the team has created smart systematic rules governing safety stock and distribution centers and they've optimized pick frequencies on priority items.
In the fourth quarter the team began an array of tests to reduce variability of inbound shipments at our DCs with a goal of reducing inbound variability by 50%.
Similarly the team plans to engage in tests to optimize outbound volatility which will further improve overall freight flow.
While we are still early in this journey the team's work on flow was a key reason we saw a much faster recovery this holiday season and why we entered 2016 with a much better in-stock position than a year ago.
Beyond in-stocks we are entering 2016 with very little clearance inventory even compared to a strong position a year ago.
As you'll recall last year's fourth quarter sales were much stronger than expected as we planned for a 2% comp and ended up with growth nearly twice as high.
With last year's unexpectedly strong sales we saw very high sell-through percentages on seasonal merchandise.
However as a result of great product and of the changes we've implemented this year quarter-end sell-throughs on seasonal merchandise were slightly better than last year putting us in a very clean inventory position at the beginning of the year.
These are just a few examples of the team's work to implement quick solutions that are already having a tangible impact on our results.
At the same time we are working to build capabilities that will support our future growth.
I'll provide a lot more detail on these future focused efforts in my remarks at next week's meeting.
As you know we have been building our flexible fulfillment capabilities for several years and this holiday season highlighted the power of these capabilities to serve our guests and drive business performance.
And while we've added capacity across our entire direct-to-guest network our fourth quarter experience demonstrated the power of relying on our stores to fill digital demand.
This holiday season our stores fulfilled 30% of our digital orders through the combination of order pickup and direct-to-guest shipments.
On Black Friday weekend alone our stores fulfilled more than one million digital orders.
And even though the traditional view of Cyber Monday doesn't even include brick-and-mortar Target stores set an all-time record for order pickup on that day with more than four times the volume compared with last year.
And like last year order pickup became even more important in the days leading up to Christmas growing to half our digital volume.
While our stores help us save meaningfully on shipping costs and allow us to fulfill guest demand faster they also help us capture more sales.
Because we now have a single view of inventory encompassing all of our distribution center and store locations we can rely on our entire network when fulfilling digital orders keeping us in-stock on a greater percentage of digital orders.
Specifically during the holiday season about 40% of our order pickup and store shipped volume consisted of items that were out of stock in our web fulfillment centers.
This preserved sales on orders we would have otherwise missed had we only accessed inventory in our web fulfillment centers.
Before I turn the call over to Cathy I also want to provide an update on our decision to bring visual merchandising talent into our stores.
Last fall we announced we were filling more than 1 400 new visual merchant positions in our store organization.
In scoping responsibilities for these roles we benchmarked industry-leaders to define the necessary capabilities and enhanced our interview process to better assess for these skills when interviewing potential candidates.
The majority of these positions have been filled by external candidates with experience at other retailers but we have also tapped into talent that we identified within the organization.
Our visual merchants are focused on style categories in our home apparel and seasonal areas and they are trained to rely on sales and inventory data while developing compelling visual presentations in our stores.
As a result their job requires that they balance art with science and productivity with creativity.
Because of their unique qualifications this team is responsible for training their store team colleagues to understand the latest product trends so the entire store team can better assist our guests as they shop our stores.
Although visual merchandising team is just ramping up its processes and tools you can already see the early impact of their effort in our store displays.
And we are very excited about the potential of this effort to elevate both signature categories and our store experience.
Thinking back to the year just ended it's amazing for me to realize that we only formed our new operations team about six months ago.
In that time we have already seen meaningful improvement in our operations and we're entering the year with a much stronger in-stock position than a year ago.
As we look ahead we see multiple opportunities to improve and end processes and build the foundation for our future growth while improving the shopping experience for our guests and enhancing our business results.
I look forward to discussing these opportunities with you in New York next week.
With that I'll turn it over to Cathy who will share her insights on our fourth quarter financial performance.
Cathy? Thanks John and hello everyone.
As Brian mentioned earlier we are really pleased that our team delivered strong traffic and sales growth in the fourth quarter.
Our financial results continue to validate the strategic changes we've made confirming that we are focused on what's most important to our guests.
Our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.52 was well within our guidance range and up $0.03 from last year's very strong performance.
Fourth quarter GAAP EPS from continuing operations of $2.31 was $0.79 above adjusted EPS reflecting the $620 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our pharmacy business to CVS Health.
Comparable sales grew 1.9% in the fourth quarter on top of a 3.8% increase in 2014.
Traffic was the primary driver of our comp growth up 1.3% building on a really strong 3.2% increase last year.
This quarter marked our fifth straight quarter of traffic growth and we are committed to driving continued traffic growth in 2016 and beyond.
As I mentioned last quarter results in our fourth quarter 2014 reflected a bounce back from the impact of the breach in the fourth quarter of 2013.
However even on a three-year stacked basis our traffic was stronger in this year's fourth quarter than earlier in the year demonstrating continued momentum from the strategic changes we've implemented.
One note fourth quarter reported sales were down a little less than 1% from last year reflecting our comp sales increase offset by the impact of the sale of the pharmacy business which closed in mid-December.
Digital sales grew 34% in the fourth quarter.
And we saw the most dramatic increases in the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weeks.
These increases were driven by our simple broad and compelling offers and as John mentioned our flexible fulfillment capabilities played a key role in driving our fourth quarter digital sales growth.
REDcard penetration was 23% in the fourth quarter up about 190 basis points from 21.1% last year.
This increase represents a moderate acceleration from the trends we were seeing earlier in the year combined with the impact of the removal of our pharmacy sales.
Because a meaningful portion of our pharmacy sales consisted of reimbursements from third parties REDcard penetration on our total pharmacy sales was very low.
As a result the pharmacy sale will increase REDcard penetration throughout 2016.
And to add clarity we've provided an apples-to-apples comparison in our press release schedules.
For the fourth quarter REDcard penetration would have been up about 160 basis points from last year had pharmacy sales been removed from both years.
Our fourth quarter segment EBITDA margin rate of 9.8% was flat to last year's strong performance.
Among the drivers fourth quarter gross margin rate was down about 60 basis points from last year reflecting a small benefit from sales mix including the removal of pharmacy sales offset by investments in promotions.
As John mentioned earlier last year's stronger than expected comparable sales growth drove very strong gross margin rate performance in fourth quarter 2014 as regular price selling on seasonal items was unusually high.
This year with sales in line with our expectations our gross margin rate reverted to a more normal level given the competitive dynamics we faced in the fourth quarter.
Every holiday season we gain insights into the evolution of our guests' shopping behavior and this year's results showed us that clear compelling broad based offers are appealing to our guests.
This insight will inform our strategy as we work to further refine our promotional effectiveness in 2016.
Favorability in our selling general and administrative expense rate offset the fourth quarter gross margin rate decline.
This performance reflected an increase in our store payroll expense rate driven by investments in our store team including the visual merchants John mentioned earlier partially offset by underlying improvement in unit productivity.
However the pressure from store labor expense was offset by favorability in our marketing and bonus expense rates and disciplined spending across the organization.
At the end of the year our merchandise inventory was up about 4% from a year ago a bit more than our current sales trends.
As John mentioned we ended the year with a very clean inventory position and the year-over-year increase reflects intentional inventory investments which are supporting record in-stock levels in our focus categories.
Turning now to capital deployment.
We paid dividends of $345 million in the fourth quarter up 4.4% from a year ago.
Our business results and cash position also enabled $1.3 billion in share repurchases in the fourth quarter meaning we returned more than 110% of our net income through dividends and share repurchases.
And even though we returned about $4.8 billion to our shareholders in 2015 we ended the year with a healthy cash position including cash from the CVS transaction which closed late in the year.
Before I turn to our guidance for the first quarter and provide some insights of our financial plan for the year I want to review last year's performance against the guidance we provided a year ago.
Let's start with sales.
A year ago we laid out a plan to grow total sales 2% to 3% on comp sales growth of 1.5% to 2.5% led by growth in our signature categories.
We achieved our comp sales goal by generating very solid growth of 2.1% and comp growth in signature categories was more than two and a half times as high as our comparable sales growth overall.
Total sales grew slower than comps this year due to the removal of the pharmacy sales beginning in December.
Of course the sale of the pharmacy business was not reflected in our guidance a year ago as we didn't enter into the deal until June.
However while the sale of the pharmacy business will continue to affect our total sales this year we first articulated the expected benefits of the deal in June which include faster traffic growth higher profit dollars and rates and higher ROIC from the upfront capital we received from CVS.
Now let's turn to digital.
A year ago we laid out a goal to grow Target's digital sales an industry-leading 40% and while we didn't quite make this ambitious goal we did lead the industry with 31% digital sales growth in 2015.
With this growth we delivered our financial goals and we gained deeper insights into how our guests want to interact with Target.
Moving down the P&amp;L a year ago we said we expected to grow our segment EBITDA rate 20 basis points to 30 basis points in 2015.
Given – driven by modest improvements in both our gross margin and our SG&amp;A expense rate we ended the year ahead of that goal up about 50 basis point points reflecting favorability on both the gross margin and the SG&amp;A expense lines.
Turning to capital deployment a year ago we were expecting 2015 capital expenditures of $2.1 billion planning for a 5% to 10% increase in the quarterly dividend in the middle of the year and we expected $2 billion or more in share repurchases for the full year.
How did the year turn out? We spent about $1.4 billion on capital expenditures in 2015 we hit the middle of our guidance with a board-approved 7.7% dividend increase in June and we exceeded our share repurchase guidance with about $3.4 billion in shares retired this year.
Our 2015 share repurchase capacity reflected robust cash generation by our business and of course additional capacity from the closing of the sale of our pharmacy business in December.
Regarding capital expenditures our 2015 spending reflected the retiming of certain projects resulting from prioritization efforts initiated by our new Chief Information Officer Mike McNamara and his team.
Following his arrival in the middle of the year Mike dramatically reduced the number of non-infrastructure technology projects in order to refocus resources on the highest priority initiatives and make faster progress.
In addition Mike's team began hiring hundreds of additional engineers in order to reduce our reliance on contractors and vendors.
These changes reflect our commitment to prioritize spending on both capital and expense to best support our enterprise priorities and in the current environment our spending priorities are currently tilting towards expense including investments in technology engineers in our store team including the hiring of visual merchants and in our headquarters teams in the areas of data science and operational excellence.
So how did the elements of our 2015 P&amp;L translate into adjusted EPS? By achieving our comp sales goal while exceeding our guidance for profit margin and share repurchase we delivered $4.69 of adjusted EPS this year above our guidance range of $4.45 to $4.65 and more than 11% higher than 2014.
And while we didn't provide specific guidance for return on invested capital in 2015 we reported after tax ROIC of 16% this year.
I'll quickly note because the ROIC calculation doesn't adjust for nonrecurring items this year's performance included the gain on the sale of the pharmacy business.
Excluding this gain our business generated a very healthy after tax ROIC of 13.9% for the year up well over a percentage point from 2014.
So with full year 2015 performance as context let's turn to our detailed guidance for first quarter.
I will also provide some high level details of our plan for the year and discuss those plans in more detail at our meeting next week.
I'll start with our view of comparable sales for the full year.
We are planning for comp growth in the 1.5% to 2.5% range in 2016 consistent with our performance throughout last year.
Given that we're one year into a multiyear journey at next week's meeting I'll discuss why we believe we have the capacity to grow comps a bit faster than this range over time.
However in the current environment we believe this is a prudent range to plan for this next year.
With that context on full year sales I'll turn to the first quarter.
As we plan our first quarter comp in light of competitor inventory positions we're anticipating growth in the lower end of the 1.5% to 2.5% range we're planning for full year.
First quarter reported total sales are expected to decline 4.5% to 5% reflecting the removal of pharmacy sales from this year's results.
One note on our sales guidance we haven't specified a goal for digital sales growth.
I'll discuss our reasoning for this change in more detail next week but for now I'll simply stress that our commitment to digital is as strong as ever.
And while we will continue to include digital metrics in our financial reporting this year we are going to gauge our success based on Target's overall traffic and sales growth without making an arbitrary distinction between channels.
This change is consistent with how our guests think about shopping as we've confirmed with our guest research.
Moving onto the first quarter P&amp;L on the EBITDA margin rate we are expecting an improvement of 60 basis points to 70 basis points in the first quarter driven by an increase in our gross margin rate partially offset by a moderate increase in SG&amp;A expense rate.
The expected gross margin rate improvement primarily reflects the benefit of the removal of low margin pharmacy sales from the mix combined with a moderate improvement in the underlying business.
On the SG&amp;A line our forecast anticipates some pressure from the investments we're making in our store team along with incremental expense from the reissuance of REDcard debit and credit cards as we move guests to much more secure chip-and-pin technology.
On the depreciation and amortization expense line we are expecting 20 basis points to 30 basis points of pressure in first quarter reflecting the removal of pharmacy sales and a slight increase in D&amp;A dollars over last year.
We expect first quarter interest expense dollars to be flat to last year.
We're planning for a first quarter effective income tax rate of 35% to 36% and we expect to continue to engage in meaningful share repurchase given our cash position.
All together these expectations position us to deliver first quarter adjusted EPS of $1.15 to $1.25 compared with a $1.10 a year ago.
Turning back to full year we expect to deliver full year 2016 adjusted EPS of $5.20 to $5.40.
And I'll provide more detail on the individual P&amp;L items next week.
For now I would note that this performance would exceed our longer term financial algorithm to generate annual adjusted EPS growth of about 10% as it reflects the expected share repurchase benefit of the incremental cash we'll deploy from the sale of our pharmacy business.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Brian who is going to provide a quick preview of next week's financial community meeting.
Brian? Thanks Cathy.
Before we take your questions I thought it'd be helpful to cover our agenda for next week.
In New York next Wednesday I'll open the meeting with an update on our strategic priorities and the initiatives for 2016 then John will provide deeper insights into the work his team is doing to transform supply-chain and their efforts to drive operational excellence across the enterprise.
And finally Cathy will provide insights into how we expect to continue to deliver on the long-term financial algorithm we laid out last year.
Following the presentations we'll have a Q&amp;A session with all three speakers along with several other members of our leadership team who will be attending this meeting.
At last year's meeting I outlined our enterprise priorities and told you that I hoped it would remain consistent for years.
So here's the spoiler alert.
Our priorities today remain consistent with a year ago.
We made progress but we have a lot more to do.
And our tactics will always be evolving but this year's results demonstrate we're focused on the right work.
At this year's meeting we plan to show you how we're getting even closer to our guests gaining a deeper understanding of their wants and needs and how Target fits into their daily lives.
We also plan to show you why we're so excited about all the new products we've developed for this year.
And for those of you who will be with us in New York you'll see vignettes showcasing newly-developed products across multiple categories including our incredible new Kids brand Pillowfort.
So whether you plan to be with us in New York next week or listening to our webcast we hope you'll join us to gain a deeper understanding of our strategic and financial plans going forward and why we're so excited about the prospects in 2016.
With that we'll conclude our prepared remarks.
And now Cathy John and I will be happy to respond to your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Kate McShane with Citi.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Can you hear me? We can now.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
My first question is on CVS.
You had mentioned in your prepared comments that you've already converted some of the pharmacies.
And I know it's early days but wondered if you could provide any detail and if you've noticed any notable changes in traffic in those particular stores? And just how disruptive is the rebranding across the chain over the next six months? Well it's still very early and we'll be tracking this carefully over the next few months.
John Mulligan was actually down in the Charlotte market just a few weeks ago where we rebranded some of the very first CVS pharmacies inside of Target.
So John why don't I let you share some of your impressions.
Yeah I think overall I don't think the rebranding will be a significant disruption for the store or the technology changes that are going to go on.
As we walked the store it looked fantastic.
The CVS brand looks great.
I think they've done a good job a great job between our team and theirs tying it into the total Target store environment.
When we did this we spoke a lot about the tools that CVS would bring not only to our guests but to our teams.
The teams were certainly excited about the tools that CVS is bringing to them to help them do their jobs so that they can focus more fully on guest service.
So we're very excited about that.
And we're excited to see like Brian said as we go along later in the year we'll see more marketing to talk about the relationship of the two companies.
And also see the reaction of our guests as those capabilities are made more front and center for them as well.
I'd only add we've been working for months and months now with our colleagues at CVS to make sure this is a very smooth transition.
And the plans we have in place will minimize the impact on the guests.
So we're very excited about what this brings to Target what it brings to our guests and to our shareholders and expect it to be a very seamless transition over the next six months.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Go ahead please.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question a two-parter.
Number one is on the promotional activity.
Can you give us a sense for how much you think that impacted the sales for the quarter and how is that going to influence your promotional posture moving forward? And then the second part of my question is on some of the stats very helpful stats that Mr.
Mulligan provided on the in-stocks how much do you think that the increase in in-stocks helped in the fourth quarter? Thank you so much.
Why don't I start by talking about the promotional environment? And we approach every year recognizing that the fourth quarter this holiday season is a very important time of the year for us.
And it's going to be a very promotional environment.
And as we sit here today we really believe our playbook that we rolled out during the holiday drove traffic to our stores drove traffic to our site allowed us to accelerate our comp performance.
And remember we were comping a very strong Q4 from 2014.
So we felt very good about the effectiveness of our promotions.
They were broad.
They very were simple and they worked both in store and online.
So we feel great about the performance during the holiday where our signature categories performed well.
We've worked with Nielsen and NPD to look at market share performance and clearly recognize that we gain market share as a by-product of our playbook in the fourth quarter.
So we feel very good about our approach.
But to your question about the future we're always stepping back and analyzing promotional effectiveness looking back at our playbook.
And as we plan for next year we'll continue to enhance and refine and make sure that we have very broad very simple and very effective offers that continue to drive traffic and profitably grow our sales.
John you want to talk about the impact of in-stocks? Yeah I think we certainly can analyze triangulate around the sales impact of in-stocks but that would be providing you very rough estimates.
What I think is much more important when you talk about essential categories ultimately this is about the guests trusting that you will have the merchandise they want when they come in our stores.
If a new mom takes her baby out in 10-degree weather for diapers and formula you better have diapers and formula in your store.
And so really it's about the trust that they have in the Target brand to always deliver wherever and whenever they want and over time there is no doubt in our minds that that will drive sales growth for the long-term.
That's very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Thank you Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you so much and good morning.
Good morning.
I'd like to talk for a moment about the SG&amp;A line and just to put in context the cost cuts that you announced at last year's meeting I guess about $1.5 billion annualized talk about where we are in recognizing those and just thinking about the expense performance that you had against that.
And as part of that if you could address whether there's any incipient wage pressure that you've noted in the market would be very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Go ahead.
I'll start out and then I'll let Cathy and John also build on it.
But as we talked about last year we've had a very clear multi-year plan.
We targeted over $2 billion of savings.
And in 2015 we've made very good progress against that plan.
We're on or ahead of all the key metrics that we're tracking and we expect that to continue as we go forward.
So John and Cathy are working across the organization to make sure that those initiatives stay in place.
And as John continues to build his team and we bring people like Anu Gupta on board to focus on operational excellence we expect to find even greater opportunities for further improvement.
So I think we're well positioned today.
I feel very good about the progress we've made to drive productivity across the organization.
And you should expect that to continue in 2016 and beyond.
I'll just add on a little bit.
With regards to our performance with SG&amp;A the beauty of what we're seeing with the plan we laid out last year is we're delivering upon it but we're also recognizing how we can reinvest back in the business on the priorities that matter to our guest.
And so if you think about our investment in visual merchandise leaders that's a great example 1 400 stores now have someone who is an expert at helping to showcase the categories that matter most to our guests.
And so we're seeing the ability as we save on one line we can invest in other areas in our business.
And you had asked about wage pressure.
I'm going to just put a plug in.
We believe in having the best team in retail and that has always been a differentiator for Target and we believe more today than ever that that is going be a differentiator.
It's our wonderful team member engagement with our guests every single day any way they interact with them.
So we're going be competitive in wage.
We always assess it market-by-market because we believe in fielding that best team in retail.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I just wanted ask a little more detail on the guidance Cathy that you outlined.
If you think about all of 2016 how much buyback is there or isn't there in that guidance? And also how should we think about CVS impacting the guidance however you want to frame it in terms of – you mentioned sales but also margin like should we expect a certain margin benefit if it's 50 bps to 70 bps up in the first quarter is that a good run rate for the year or how should we think of it? Yeah so Greg thank you.
First off I'm going to put a plug in to say that we look forward to seeing you next week because we'll obviously unpack a little bit more of it then.
But with regards to the share repurchase comment in our guidance we did assume a consistent level of share repurchase like we've been talking.
However we're also sitting – we're ending the year with a pretty heavy cash position because we closed the transaction late in December.
And so you'll see us provide additional color into that.
But suffice it to say it'll be at the level of this year or higher.
And we've included that in our EPS guidance of $5.20 to $5.40.
And on the margins? Yeah so as we said it obviously was an impact on sales but very little on the aggregate EBITDA line which is what we said longer term.
So your full-year guidance assumes some slight EBITDA margin increase it seems? Yeah – yes.
Thanks.
Look forward to seeing you next week.
Thanks Greg.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Just on Q4 the gross margin was just a little bit lighter than I think consensus and we were modeled at.
Could you provide just a little more detail on the variances or puts and takes in gross margin versus the internal plan that you had or was that 50 basis point decline in line with your expectations? Sean as we think about our performance in the fourth quarter it played out pretty much as expected.
We know the fourth quarter is going to be very promotional very competitive.
We certainly saw the guests respond very positively to our offers and that drove great traffic.
It allowed us to build market share in our signature categories and I think it positioned us well for 2016.
So as we sit here there's a lot of variables that go into building our plans for a quarter like the fourth quarter but we're very pleased with the way our plans drove traffic to our stores visits to our site allowed us to accelerate comps on top of a very strong quarter last year.
And we saw very broad increases across many of our signature categories as we reported.
So I think our plans were in line with our expectation for the quarter.
Okay.
Great.
And then just real quick a follow-up for just on how you're thinking about 2016.
Just from getting a number of questions about how you feel about cost of goods sold where are you seeing any inflation or deflation potentially in some of those categories and specifically in Food how is that playing through on the P&amp;L right now? Thanks.
Yeah Sean again a number of puts and takes as we look at the impact of changes in currency and the cost of goods.
But it's all baked into our outlook for next year.
And I think we approached 2016 with a lot of confidence that we've got great plans in place terrific momentum and as you'll see next week at the conference the team's done a terrific job in building some exciting new brands that we'll showcase next week and we're already seeing some really positive responses from our guests to our new kids' line Pillowfort.
So we're excited about 2016 and we look forward to seeing you next week.
With that I guess operator we've got time for one last call today.
Your last question comes from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks Brian.
A quick question that was I guess follow-up on something the top line versus gross margin tradeoff.
First I take it you're pleased with the outcome.
I recognize it's very difficult to optimize but can you tell us maybe at least the growth you saw in digital was that existing customers versus new? I'm trying to gauge the stickiness of some of the customers that came to you in the fourth quarter.
Yeah we're going to spend a lot more time unpacking this next week.
But we recognize that today our Target guest interfaces with the brand in a number of different ways.
Sometimes they're in our store.
Sometimes they're shopping online.
We certainly heard many times because of some of the proprietary items that we offered during the fourth quarter they were shopping online but as John referenced quickly coming to our stores to pick up those items.
So we felt really good about the way the guests responded to our offers during the fourth quarter and a great combination of in-store traffic more guests than ever before clicking and collecting items in our store.
And then the fact that we were able to leverage our stores this year over 460 where we were shipping from stores to our guests' homes.
That overall package came together really effectively throughout the holiday.
So we feel as if we had a winning strategy in the holidays.
It drove great comps on top of a very strong performance last year.
And you and many of the others that are on the call have asked me repeatedly throughout 2015 would we be able to comp the 3.8% increase in 2014? Well hopefully we answered that question.
We answered it with strong momentum and we were able to see both strong performance in our stores and we delivered industry-leading performance online.
So we feel really good about the way we're exiting Q4 and well-positioned for 2016 and beyond.
So we're looking forward to seeing all of you next week in New York.
And thanks for your patience this morning.
I know we started a few minutes late but hopefully it was worth your time and we look forward to seeing you again next Wednesday.
So thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.