Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation first quarter 2011 earnings release conference call.
Please note that this call is being recorded and is also being simultaneously webcast.
At this time I will turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Mark McAndrew.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning is Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer; Larry Hutchison our General Counsel; and Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2010 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Net operating income for the first quarter was a $129 million or $1.62 per share a per share increase of 7% from a year ago.
Excluding the $6 million of United Investors earnings from the year ago quarter net operating income per share from continuing operations increased 12%.
Net income was $106 million or $1.33 per share down 13% from a year ago primarily as a result of a $15.5 million dollar realized investment loss on the sale of our holdings in MBIA.
Excluding FAS 115 our return on equity was 13.2% and our book value per share was $49.45 a 9% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities carried at market value book value grew 15% to $50.70 per share.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue excluding the United Investors grew 4% to $431 million and life-underwriting margins increased 7% to $119 million.
Life net sales declined 5% in the quarter to $81 million while life first-year collected premiums were down less than 1% to $61 million.
I feel good about our potential for growth in our life premiums and underwriting margins.
While we currently expect relatively flat life sales in the second quarter we believe we will see high single-digit growth in life sales in the third quarter followed by double-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
I am also very pleased with our initial efforts conserve our existing life customers.
In 2010 we produced $330 million in net life sales but we lapse $252 million at in force premium.
As we are able to fully implement our conservation efforts over the next few months we believe we can reduce our lapses in the 10% to 20% range.
At American Income life premiums were up 8% to a $146 million and life-underwriting margin was also up 8% at $48 million.
Net life sales declined 5% for the quarter to $33 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the first quarter was 4 039 down 4% from a year ago but up 3% from year end.
It is also up 8% from its low of 37 24 at the end of January.
I am very encouraged by the progress that we made at American Income.
In addition to the growth and agents the number of new agents achieving our top bonus level for the first time grew by 38% in February and March which will have a positive impact on our new agent retention.
Our mid level sales management ranks also increased 4% during the quarter.
In our direct response operations at Globe Life life premiums were up 5% to a $152 million while life underwriting margins were unchanged at $38 million.
Net life sales were down 2% to $36 million.
The outlook for direct response is also very positive.
For the past few months we have been testing and analyzing an enhancement to our underwriting utilizing applicants’ prescription drug records and the initial results are encouraging.
For our insert media adult business which represents 40% of our total Direct Response life sales we estimate this change will reduce our mortality cost by roughly 17% resulting in additional underwriting margin of 4% of 5% of premium on this block of business.
This additional margin will in turn allow us to expand our distribution.
This change will also impact our direct mail sales but further analysis is necessary before we can quantify the effect.
We currently expect mid single-digit growth in life sales in the second quarter with improving double-digit growth in life sales in the second half of this year.
Life premiums at Liberty National declined 2% to $73 million and life underwriting margin was up 20% to $17 million.
Net life sales declined 12% to $9.4 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National at the end of the first quarter was 1 844 down 17% from a year ago.
As I’ve mentioned previously the turnaround at Liberty National is not a quick and easy fix but we are making progress.
The underwriting margins have improved significantly.
Through our conservation efforts we should stop the decline in life premiums.
On the marketing side the number of new agents achieving the maximum bonus level for the first time was up 34% in the first quarter which again will have a positive impact on our agent retention.
We have however reduced our life sales estimates at Liberty National for 2011.
We now expect to see a continued decline in the second quarter followed by roughly flat sales in the third and single-digit growth in the fourth quarter of this year.
On the health side premium revenue excluding part D declined 5% to $192 million.
Our health underwriting margin grew 4% to $37 million.
Health net sales declined 16% to $14 million.
As a percentage of premium we expect to help margins to hold at that 19% level for the balance of 2011.
Premium revenue for Medicare part D was $49 million for the quarter down 5% and the underwriting margin was $5 million down 2%.
Administrative expenses were $38 million up 2% from a year ago and inline with our expectations.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer for his comments.
Thanks Mark.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment portfolio excess investment income capital and share repurchases.
First the investment portfolio.
On our website we are prescheduled to provide summary information regarding our portfolio as of March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
As indicated on these schedules invested assets are $11.2 billion including $10.5 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
As of the fixed maturities $9.8 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus.
Below investment grade bonds are $758 million down from $863 million at December 2010 and $891 million a year ago.
The decline in the first quarter was due to a $82 million of dispositions and also $24 million of net upgrades of bonds to the investment grade.
The percentage of below-investment great bonds to fix maturities at 7.2% is the lowest that it has been since the second quarter 2008.
That percentage may still be higher relative to our peers however due to our significantly lower portfolio leverage the percentage of below-investment grade bonds to equity excluding OCI is 19.6% which is likely worse than the peer average.
Overall the total portfolio is rated BBB-plus same as a year ago.
During the quarter we recognized realized losses of $23 million pre tax or $15 million after tax.
These losses resulted from the sales of the company’s entire holdings as NBIA bonds which had a presale book value of $63 million.
We have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $156 million compared to gains of $108 million at year end 2010 and net unrealized losses of $185 million a year ago.
The increase in unrealized gains in the first quarter is due primarily to the previously mentioned sale of NBIA bond.
Regarding investment yield in the first quarter we invested $265 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in industrial sectors.
We invest at an average annual effective yield of 6% an average rating of A-minus and an average life of 27 years.
For the entire portfolio the first quarter yield was 6.62% compared to 6.65% in the previous quarter and 6.78% in the first quarter of 2010.
The decline in the yield is due to the lower new money yields.
As of March 31<sup>st</sup> the yield on the portfolio is 6.61%.
Now turning to excess investment income excess investment income is our net investment income less the interest costs on the net policy liabilities and the financing costs of our debt.
In the first quarter it was $74 million up $2 million or 3% from a year ago.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income was $0.93 up [17%] over the first quarter of 2010.
As a component net investment income was up $8 million or 5% in line with the 5% increase in average invested assets.
Despite the lower yields in the bond portfolio investment income increased at the same rate as the related assets because we held significantly more cash and short-term securities during the first three months of 2010 than we have in 2011.
The interest costs on the net policy liabilities increased $6 million or 7% in line with the 7% increase in the average liabilities.
Now regarding RBC as we mentioned before we plan to maintain our RBC ratio at or around the 325% level.
This ratio was lower than some peer companies but it is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
At December 31<sup>st</sup> 2010 consolidated RBC was 421% and adjusted capital was approximately $385 million in excess of that required for the target 325% ratio.
The ratio and excess capital were higher than normal due to the impact of the sale of United Investors on December 31 2010.
Finally regarding share repurchases and parent company assets in the first quarter we spent $187 million to buy 2.9 million Torchmark shares.
So far in April we used $30 million to buy another 450 000 shares.
For the full year through today we had spent $217 million of parent company cash to acquire 3.4 million shares.
The available liquid assets of the parent consists of assets on hand and the expected free cash flow from operations free cash flow results from the derivatives received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the dividends pay to Torchmark shareholders and the interest paid on the debt.
The parent began the year with liquid assets of $205 million.
We expect to generate approximately $655 million of free cash for the entire year.
Thus the total free cash available for all of 2011 will be around $860 million the same amount that we projected in our previous call.
In the first quarter we generated about $391 million of our free cash flow and that included the $305 million resulting from the sale of United Investors.
As mentioned the parent used a $187 million in the first quarter for Torchmark share repurchases.
As a result the parent ended the quarter with $409 million of available liquid assets.
And that’s comprised with a $205 million ending asset plus a $391 million of free cash during the quarter less 187 million of share repurchases.
Now along with the $409 million as on hand at the end of the first quarter we should generate approximately $264 million of free cash flow over the next three quarters of the year.
As of today after deducting the $30 million of April share repurchases the parent will have approximately $643 million available between now and the end of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible and if market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
First quarter earnings were in line with our projections and our previous guidance and we are affirming our guidance for 2011 of expected earnings per share in the range of $6.75 to $7.10.
Those are my comments this morning.
[Nalini] we will now open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go first to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Couple of questions.
Mark I was interested in your comments on conservation efforts as it relates to some of the business that lapsed or that I guess in elevated level of lapse station could you maybe give us a little bit more detail on exactly what you’re trying to accomplish what – how you’re going about that? Sure.
And it’s not an elevated level.
In fact our persistency of our life business is actually been improving over the last few years.
So it’s not an elevated level of lapses but number of months ago we decided that we were really going to focus on trying to conserve as much of that business as possible and we have spent a lot of time over the last few months analyzing and tracing back to the source what is causing the lapses in our different distribution systems.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
And so – it’s not one single thing that we’re doing because there is a lot of different areas but we have now identified where those lapses are originating and what the causes are and we’ve outlined plan for each of those areas on what we can do to reduce those.
Some of those changes in our procedures will be pretty quick to implement.
I think achieving a 10% reduction in our lapse rate – in our lapses is something we can achieve in the next few months.
To get to the 20% that’s going to take a little more time that things are need to test or people we need to hire and train as far as people who take phone calls and do some telemarketing.
But I think over the next 12 months I think something towards the high end of that 20% range is achievable.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then two more real quick ones.
One is just on investment income the excess investment income Gary are you where you wanted to be as far as cash and liquid assets getting invested or is there still some marginal pick up we should expect?  We are pretty much invested.
One thing though it took a little bit longer in the quarter.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
To get the money invested the markets are – is still little hard to find the bonds.
But as far as within the insurance companies I think we are now about 150 million of short term money which is not unusual.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then finally just an update since there is I guess been a little bit more news recently now on DAC accounting changes the deferral of certain costs or lack of deferral of certain costs that used to be deferred.
Can you give us a sense for what your plans are there and how should we think about potential retrospective charge? Well we will definitely retroactively adopt and… Okay.
I really don’t have any much more add that we did last quarter last quarter we talked about the fact that we think that are ride down to be somewhere between $300 million to $300 million dollars which is after-tax which is above 8% of our book value.
Okay.
But going forward as far as the impact on earnings we will have a negative in terms of reduced expenses that we can defer but we’re going to have a positive by the fact that we’ll have reduced amortization.
Yeah.
And when you net those two if we don’t do anything else we’ll have a small positive but there is about a $100 million of agency related non-commission expenses that meet the criteria for the deferral.
We are in the process of looking at those expenses with first in mind to reduce those expenses to cut what we can or reduce what we can.
And then also there is a secondarily to that is that we maybe able to recast some of those expenses to into commissions which would be deferrable.
To the extent that we can do those two things the deposit earnings will be even greater.
Okay.
So the net impact here at least even if you can’t accomplish that sort of work is we should see the write down of DAC will reduce your future amortization enough that this is a modest positive on the earnings side? That’s correct.
Yeah.
John we’ll have as Gary mentioned we have a reduction our book value but corresponding increase on our return on equity but also just want to reemphasize what Gary was saying.
We are going just by each distribution system and taking a hard line by line and look at all of those expenses that are no longer going to be deferrable.
And we will be very much concentrating on what we can do to reduce those expenses between now and the first year.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
And adoption date would be the end of this year I think right? Yeah it’s a January 1<sup>st</sup> 2012 adoption day.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay terrific.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner	 with FBR Capital Markets.
Great thank you.
Mark I just wanted to clarify on the sales kind of guidance you gave us quarter-by-quarter.
I just wanted to clarify that effectively the AIA American Income guidance and the direct response guidance that we had previously which was mid single-digit I think at American Income and kind of high single-digit at direct response.
It sounds like that guidance is in place and it’s only Liberty National that changed.
Is that the correct interpretation? Yeah I think that’s right Randy.
We still – when you look at the full year… Yeah yeah.
We still are expecting high single-digit growth and direct response and mid-to-high-single digit growth at American Income but it’s one of things that it will be accelerating each quarter as the year progresses in both of those distribution systems.
We have lowered our expectations at Liberty a little.
It’s fair enough.
And then so what you mentioned you got your sales manager middle manager count up 4% and I think that was maybe the key focus at American Income.
And that’s really the most important area to turn sales around.
But what else is working there or is it all about sales managers? What else is working and giving you that confidence of the turnaround in sales there? Well there is two things there I mean growing the middle management is definitely important.
And in fact we’ve got some new incentives coming out June 1<sup>st</sup> that I think will add to that growth in our middle management.
The other key thing when I look at last year the percentage of our new hired agents who achieve that maximum bonus level the first time was declining.
And that’s when I’m saying the last two months have been very strong there up over 30%.
A number of new agents were hitting that bonus level because those are the people we retain.
We’ve seen agents who don’t achieve that bonus level we basically retain none of those people for a year.
We have very good retention of the agents who achieve that bonus level.
So that is we’ve again we done some restructuring of our incentive compensation for management and really just have a renewed focus on doing a better job of training and working with agents to get them to that bonus level and that will pay dividend.
Our new agent retention will improve.
That’s great.
Very helpful.
Keeping with sales real quick here over to direct response.
It sounds like the effective the underwriting margin improvement that comes from using the prescription drug records I guess that allows you to self-fund increased by distribution? Is that the way we should think of it? Just a little bit more color too on what's driving the more bullish comments at direct response? That’s one of the number piece because that is an important piece.
When we if on 40% of our sales where low in our mortality cost by 17% it does allow more margin.
One we would do some additional rate test to again trying on the optimum pricing level.
We know that it is very price sensitive.
If that improvement in our mortality cost allow us to bring our rates down 10% we seen from past experience that that will improve our response rates by something in that 20% range and also improve the persistency of the business resulting in higher profitability.
So we’ve also had some very successful package test you are in the last three or four months that will add to that but those are number of factors in that but there is no doubt the change in underwriting is a big piece of it.
Yes thanks for the responses.
We will take the next question from Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Thank you good afternoon.
A few questions Mark.
First could you talk a little bit more about the health side.
The first two collective premiums where down a lot more than I thought they would be maybe that’s just because I was just have to launch on the forecast.
But I am wondering if you could give me some sense of what’s going on in the health side and I have a couple of follow-ups.
Well Ed there is a not a whole lot new to report from the last caller to you on the health side.
Health sales were down a little more than what we anticipated and part of that was for example like American income and someone need to take a look at.
We’ve by moving to a laptop sales presentation I don’t know that we’ve done a good job of trying to move some of the health products into that.
Not something we can adjust but they come down to its pretty in line with where we thought we would be and borrowing we don’t see any big resurgence in medicare at this point in time.
So it’s about in line with where we expected to be.
Merrill Lynch</strong> So how should we think about that you know for looking at sort of the outlook over the next few years just generally is that a business that continues to decline.
Well again Ed you’ve been following as long enough its hard to predict what the medicare certain marketplace will do.
I think the Liberty National sales as total sales stabilize and start to move forward those should not decline or should turnaround and same way with the American Income we can bring those back up but as far as the other we basically discontinued those underage 65 products.
Until there is a major change in the medicare advantage then I don’t expect to see growth in our health premiums.
I still think we’ll see some improvement in our health underwriting margins as some of that business continues to run off but I don’t expect to see growth in our health premiums for the balance of this year or probably in the next year anyway.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Okay.
And then I guess it’s a good lead into my next question you highlighting how long I’ve covered this company because I wanted to talk about Liberty National.
And I think for as long as I’ve covered the company you guys have been trying to figure out how to turnaround that distribution channel in one way or another.
And I’m just curious at what point or is there a point where that business is more valuable as just a run-off book than trying to just sort of turn it around? I don’t know that we ever get there Ed I mean it’s still the business we generate I mean if we ever got the point where the new business we generated was not giving us a reasonable return on investment then we would have to take a look at that but we are not there and we don’t expect to get there.
So I haven’t given up on Liberty there is obviously a lot of challenges there but again I think we can stop the decline through our conservation efforts and it will turnaround through the course of this year.
Some of the things well it’s so different from American Income and we’re continuing to address the issues that arise but I don’t see it ever becoming just a run-off block.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Okay and just one final question.
Could you just quantify if you achieve a 10% reduction in lapse rates what that equates to in terms of dollar amount of premium? Well again you can look last year we lapsed $252 million of life premium annualized premium.
I think our projections for this year if we continue down with us – just the same path that we’ve been going we estimate it be closer to $260 million of lapses for this year.
So again achieving if we can conserve 10% of that $26 million 20% is a little over $50 million.
So this is really a big deal.
It was probably one of the bigger things we’ve done in quite a number of years.
If you look our total life in force premium last year in the last 12 months I think we grew $58 million.
So if we are able to conserve $50 million of lapses it will take our life premium growths to significantly higher level.
And I will point out that the business we’re conserving because we’ve already made the big upfront investment.
We’ll have a significantly higher margin than the new business we’re writing.
The $330 million that we wrote last year and we spent roughly $500 million to put that business on the books.
To conserve this business if we are able to conserve $50 million and I don’t think we’ll spend $5 million conserve that business.
So it will have although we haven’t included any of that in our current guidance hopefully by next quarter we will have a little better be able to have a more confidence and what impact that we’ll have for the balance of the year and reflected in our guidance for the balance of the year.
But there would be in the margin on that conserved business I mean how should we think about is it almost all margin or is there.
Well no obviously you still have mortality costs and… Merrill Lynch</strong> Yes beyond that though in terms of expenses do we just need to think about the margin being kind of the gross margin tax affected? Pretty much I mean let’s take for example American income we still would be paying renewal year commissions on that business.
So there is still some commission expense but its not that we’ve already got the high first year expense definitely indirect response we’ve already spent the money upfront.
So the cost of conserve that again I don’t think it will be 10% of premium versus well over a 100% that we spend on our new business.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Okay.
Very good thanks a lot.
We’ll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi thanks.
I had a question first on just the agent count in American Income.
It did rise a little bit this quarter.
It went up in the first quarter of last year too but then it declined so what your outlook is there? Secondly on just what gives you confidence that Liberty National life sales will improve in the second half of the year given that the agent count continues to decline and the actual results have been a little worse than what you’ve expected the last few quarters? And then finally just on share buybacks.
I think Gary mentioned that you’ve got $643 million available through the rest of the year.
If you don’t do any deals and maybe you could discuss the deal environment also but if you don’t do anything there then should we assume that most of that would be deployed towards buybacks some time over the next three quarters? Okay.
Well first half American income I guess one of the big differences this year versus last year Jimmy as again and looking at the percentage of those new agents that are achieving that maximum bonus level for the first time.
Even though our recruiting was up last year and we’re reporting on more agents that numbers of that agents hitting that bonus level was declining and it did result and higher turnover so even though we saw some growth in the first quarter we couldn’t sustain and then it continue to decline throughout last year which is where we are at today.
Now with the renewed emphasis on spending more time with that agent better training and getting them to that bonus level we are seeing a reversal of that trend.
So again the last two months the number of new agents hitting that bonus level is up over 30% that’s the main thing give me encouragement that we are back on the right track.
We did hit a low of 37 I think 37 24 at the end of January.
They have 8% growth in last two months is very encouraging to me.
Liberty national a little bit same way there is Liberty National was different that because of the way its incorporated and state of those business and it is been able to use temporary agents licenses so we are a number if it well throughout its history.
And almost become like a better word addicted to the temporary licenses.
And the turnover at Liberty National has been so poor even compared to American income they only retain about half number of agents at American income does I think a lot of that is the fact that a lot of these people never pass their exam so they can write business for 90 days but then they are gone and that’s not productive.
It’s not productive use of management’s time.
So I look into the first quarter the number of agents who achieve the new agents who got a permanent license who passed their exam and now permanent is up 34% as well as the number of – it’s not coincidence the number of new agents hitting their maximum bonus level is up 34%.
We’re seeing a significant reduction as a result of changes in our incentive compensation and the number of temporary licenses has dropped almost in half the first quarter.
So I think we’re making the right choices as far as getting long-term growth but it – by not having all those agents with temporary licenses And then the buybacks? Well as Gary mentioned we do have a significant amount of cash.
Right now we’re going ahead with the M&amp;A activity.
We have looked Jimmy and right now I don’t see any really good prospects on the short-term horizon for an acquisition.
So we would expect to utilize most of that cash in the share repurchase although we do have a Board meeting tomorrow and that will be an item on the agenda.
Yeah.
I should be assuming that that’s going to be front-ended more so if you – given the rates are pretty low so would you front-end most of the buyback? Well again we’ve got – we received middle of March the United Investors dividend.
Yeah yeah.
We’ve gotten a significant amount of cash sitting here.
We – I would fully expect to accelerate our share repurchase in the second quarter from the first quarter level but not really prepared this time to say exactly how much or when that will occur.
Again that’s one of the reasons why we do have as wide of guidance spread as we have but that is definitely on the agenda for the Board meeting tomorrow.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
Good morning to you guys.
Wondered if Gary you could refresh my memory.
I thought you said as soon as you had the money you’d be doing sort of the maximum volume per day in buyback.
It seems like your April volume would be less than the maximum.
Was my math wrong or is it just tougher to buy the shares or was there something tactically? Well actually (inaudible) remember saying we would know the maximum but… I was going to say.
I’m not sure that I heard him say that but and obviously we haven’t buying didn’t buying anywhere near close (inaudible).
Since we received that and Bob again that’s about all we can say at this point is we will have a discussion at the meeting tomorrow.
We could buy it back.
I let Gary we figure up the maximum would be somewhere in the $10 million or a day range.
Yeah it’s something.
So we’re nowhere near even at first quarter level.
We were now were near buying the maximum.
Okay.
Just trying to – in the last call I thought you said the environment now that I misremembered the last that I hate to try to remember the last call again but I thought there was some comment that the environment for acquisitions had changed and you might consider something.
Did I have that Mark? Well yeah I mean and we’re still open to the thought of we’ll look at most any thing reasonable.
It just Bob we have been talking to a number of different investment bankers we’ve expressed our desire there but even some of the potential candidates that we thought might be available.
We basically have been told that they are really not.
So definitely have changed a little bit in the last couple of months it’s not that we’re not opened toward it’s more I just don’t see anything out there presently that is really on the market.
It just seems like the two questions are sort of linked maybe you were a little slow on the trigger on the buyback if you thought the deals environment was finally more favorable?  And I think that’s a fair assessment Bob.
Part of the reason we didn’t we could have spent more in the first quarter but we really thought a couple of months ago that there were a couple of good potential acquisition prospects out there.
But those candidates from what we know today are not anything that are going to happen in the short term.
So yes our attitude is a little different than it was a couple of months ago.
Yeah Bob.
I think on the last call what we talked about the environment for an acquisition is good from the standpoint we’ve got the cash but also borrowing rates are so low that the right candidate came along that it would be a good time to buy.
But I agree with Mark.
We've looked very hard and it’s just looking more and more like there's not anything that's anywhere near imminent.
Okay last question.
Your health premium actually increased sequentially for the first time in a bunch of quarters which is probably a function of persistency as much as sales.
But I was surprised.
Could we be at a stabilization point? Your earlier answer was you look for it to continue to decline a little bit but the rate of decline is seems to be slowing?  Well there is still some carryover Bob our first quarter health premiums tend to be if you look historically tend to be stronger than the other three quarters.
And lot of that still goes back to United American the Medicare Supplements business we all seem to have strong first quarter sales and a lot of those people pay annually.
Gotcha.
We do have the first quarter tends to be stronger than the balance of the year.
So I don't think a sequential increase is any sign.
We expect to see the margins hold pretty well constant to the first quarter level but still a small decline through the balance of the year.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Paul Sarran with Macquarie.
The lapsed reduction efforts that you talked about given that first year collected premium on the life side fell which I think it’s the first time in a couple years at least can you give us an update on what overall premium growth would look like over the next few years? Well Paul we’ve really don't provide guidance beyond the current year.
And again without taking into account our conservation efforts which we have included in our guidance I think we are just looking at somewhere in that 4% both in life premium range for this year.
So I hopefully as the year progresses that will improve as net sales results improve and results of some of our conservation improve but again we haven’t included the conservation efforts in our guidance at this point.
Okay.
And then the conservation efforts are those concentrated in any one business line or is that across all of the distributions?  Well we’re taking a hard look at all of them but right now from the analysis that we’ve done thus far I think the biggest potential is at American Income followed by Liberty National and a little less at Globe in the direct response and they find it because of the type of business.
American Income almost all of their business a very high proportion of there is automatic deduction from people’s bank accounts each month.
And there is more potential to conserve that versus Globe in the direct response.
Most of that business is direct deal.
We send people bill they send it back in.
So from what we've seen I think there’s a lot more potential for American income than the other distributions but that’s actually good because that is our highest margin business.
Okay.
And then just lastly how are you looking now at the amount of capital you want to keep at the Holding Company? It was around $200 million but I think you've maybe backed away from that hard limit more recently.
Well we haven’t.
Again that will be a topic of discussion in our Board meeting tomorrow.
At this point we haven’t changed that outlook we – but that is something that we’re going to continue to look at and will continue to discuss.
And I think hopefully we’ll get more comfortable of bringing that down.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from Jeffrey Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thank you good morning.
I guess I would like to start with just following up on that last one.
So just to be clear I mean in order to have $643 million available to redeploy you would have to heed into what had been the $200 million question is my interpretation correct here? For the balance of the year that would be correct.
Yeah.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> That would be correct.
Okay.
If we hold the $200 million obviously the 443.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
So clarified that.
And then I guess like some others maybe I’m struggling to correct me if I think in the last call but I was thinking last call you had some optimism about actually having slightly positive growth in health sales this year but now it sounds like you’ve described you continued decline has been inline with your expectations.
So am I not correctly remembering the comp sales in last quarter? Well we did.
You are right.
If I go back to quarter ago we did expect a quarter ago to see small growth in our health sales this year.
And that would be revision down.
As far as the premiums we were not expecting.
We were not expecting growth in overall premiums.
We did say that we were expecting a small increase in our health sales which we did not see in the first quarter.
So in that regard yes that is the change.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay and then once again just based on just a reassessment of the Medicare manage situation basically? Basically we hope to see more improvement on Medicare segment business and again American Income health sales and Liberty National health sales were all down a little more than what we had anticipated.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay and then on the Liberty National Life sales outlook it is a pretty big change.
I think against last quarter it was double-digit for the year and I think based on your quarter by quarter comments of down first quarter down second quarter flat third quarter and fourth quarter single digit I mean is that nets to a decline for the year.
You talked about the issues again this quarter you talked about last quarter but I'm just trying to understand.
Is the key sort of delta? Is the key change from last quarter the issue around temporary licenses? Is that what changed the outlook over the last few months?  Well that is part of it I won’t say that’s all its out there their sales results are less and what we’d anticipated in a quarter ago and again part of that was the shifting emphasis the permanently license agents and but in other their results in the first quarter were below our expectations.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay and then one last area if I may.
A little bit of help maybe with Part D arithmetic.
I think the premiums this quarter or revenues were down sort of 5% to 6% kind of consistent with I think the 7% you had talked about before.
Sales are off by a much bigger percent.
But I guess some of that is group business.
I mean so I'm not sure how to map between maybe just the big decline in sales and what we're seeing in the premiums.
Are you had it does the large decline in sales imply that this at some point it’s going to run-off pretty aggressively or is that not the right arithmetic?   No it really comes out to a bulk of our sales come in the open enrollment period which is in the fourth quarter and some of those carryover a little into the first quarter but both of our sales come in the fourth quarter.
So we have a pretty good idea while they have a real good idea by now what our revenues are going to be for this year.
We see other than some people turning 65 we don’t see the revenues are very predictable there during the balance of the year.
So yes our group sales were down in the fourth quarter last year and a little bit carryover in the first quarter of this year which accounts for the decline and premium revenues that we’re seeing but that should be fairly consistent throughout the year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
So we really just need to focus on that fourth quarter enrollment? Yeah that’s correct.
The sales that we see throughout the year the other quarters are relatively insignificant.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thanks a lot.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc</strong>.
Hey thank you good morning guys.
A couple if I may.
One Mark you are doing the prescription drug thing and I guess others are too on insert.
Would there be a reason to suspect there might be a difference in terms of results between insert and direct when you go to direct? Well I don’t think we’ll have quite as much impact on the direct mail side of that business mainly because the average what we’re seeing is it has the older the age the more impact it has actually when you get about 50 years old it has a much more significant impact in our mortality.
And the average age that we’re issuing in the insert side is – I think it’s about seven years higher than it is on the direct mail side.
So it will still have a – we expect it to have a significant an impact in our direct mail adult business but not quite as much as it has on the insert media side.
Inc.</strong> Okay that’s interesting.
And then if I may going back to re-examine the question of temporary licensing and passing exams Primerica has stated in the past that they’ve had some issues with actually getting temporary licenses I think particularly with regards to the state of Georgia.
Is that what’s affecting you there? Well not there have been a little issue with that but that’s being more a conscious decision on our part in order to improve our agent retention and try to get more long-term growth to really change our financial incentives for management.
To not reward as heavily people who just started working with a temporary license and I know it's been an issue for the Primerica.
On the other hand American Income doesn't use temporary licenses at all and their recruiting efforts are obviously very successful.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And in the same vein are you guys part and parcel of this effort to try to get the entry level exams maybe a bit easier particularly given the type of products that you saw? Well it's interesting.
I read the Wall Street article there earlier this week.
And I didn't realize at the delay time that Primerica was really pushing through them but it’s definitely we would support because again I look at our agency operations the products that were selling are very simple.
Whole life term life products that I think in many states that the insurance exam is more difficult and it needs to be for the products that were selling so I very much will support to them.
And we look into what we need to do what can we do to help support that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one more if I may.
On the regulatory side issues over the last week with regards to claims payments California and Florida.
Are you guys involved at all? Have you been named? Mark I'll address that.
This is Larry.
We haven't been named and I don't think will be named because Torchmark subsidiaries have a number of processes in place to address situations where an insured's died the formal claim has been filed.
So we don’t see it as an issue for the Torchmark companies.
On the other thing I mentioned a different I know there was number of companies when you sell whole life policy that generate cash value and when that policy stops paying the premium you have to do something with that cash value and I know there are a number of large companies out there that use that cash value to buy a reduced paid up policy.
For example you may have a $50 000 it generates ex-dollars of cash and what they will do with that if you stop paying the premium they’ll buy a $800 policy that’s paid up for the rest of life.
And those people most of those people don’t even realize that they have that coverage.
So you end up building up as huge block of paid up business.
On the contrary we don’t use reduced paid up as a standard non non-forfeiture value in our products.
For most part we use automatic premium loan or extended term insurance so we don’t have the same problem that some of these other company sales.
Inc.</strong> Okay all right.
Thank you guys very much.
We will take our next question from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks so much.
Steve got most of my questions I guess just one follow-up for the agent licensing can you guys commented at all in terms of what percentage of your agents that have temporary license ultimately turn to full time? That I wish I had that Chris.
I don’t have that number in front of me.
It is obviously a number at Liberty.
Again the only place that use it is at Liberty National.
And I know that number is improving.
If I look at the total numbers our agents at Liberty now who have who are operating on temporary license its down to a 100 out of that 1844 which is almost a 50% reduction since the end of the year.
So it’s not something it’s something that is definitely improving and but it’s not an issue American Income at all.
Okay and then if we if the push was they are trying to get some of the licensing exams maybe a bit easier for people to pass would that adjust your strategy in terms of recruiting and incentivizing managers? Well that would be a huge plus for us if we’re able to do that because even though our passing rates are significantly better than Primerica’s but still they would be – if we can do our – and either I can’t even quote you what our passing rates are that’s something I will definitely have by the next call.
But if we can raise that by 25% obviously that will have significant positive impact in our distribution.
Okay.
And any way to quantify in terms of what your best guess would be for what that could mean on a maybe point basis for sales? Well Chris I’d tell you it’s something I look into so that in the next call it’d just be pure speculation on my part at this point.
But it is something I intend to look into and I’ll have a little better – I’ll be able to better answer that on the next call.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
We’ll move next to Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks very much.
Good afternoon to everyone.
Mark just two quick questions two questions.
First regarding the math the arithmetic of this conservation effort is one way to think of it as follows that you have about $1.8 billion in annualized life insurance in force and that a $50 million addition would add roughly 2 to 3 percentage points to that what is currently running at a 3% year-over-year growth in the in force? I think that’s a fair way to look at it Eric.
We’re actually got to somewhere between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion.
If we can conserve $50 million it would be close to a 3% additional improvement in our collected premiums.
But again it's something that if you project it out which we’ve been doing and that will compound overtime and it actually in subsequent years it would add more than 3% to our growth in premium.
Why is that? Why would it compound? Why would it be the rate of growth in premium?  If I just look at our projections if we continue to not only conserve.
Okay if we conserve $50 million on the first year and now $40 million of that will continue to be in force with the following year.
Now if we can conserve another $50 million in year two.
Now we haven’t set a $50 million of growth.
We have $90 million of growth.
And of that $90 million okay its 10% of that lapse after there is $81 million from prior years efforts plus another $50 million as well for them following year we have $130 million.
And again I’m just giving this as an example but it does compound.
So the idea is that you conserve in succeeding years what you conserved in preceding years.
Is that…? Yes I think it’s our enforce growth actually the amount that we conserve will continue to grow along with it.
Okay.
Second question is more of a qualitative one just deepening my understanding of the underwriting process at Torchmark.
Is the idea that heretofore you have not asked people what medications they're on or you have asked them but they conveniently develop amnesia? Well see that’s the difference between our direct response our agency distribution.
Our agency distribution we do much more underwriting.
Even though we’re looking at using the prescription drug record it won’t have nearly the impact there and direct response the key is that is keeping the underwriting very simple.
We ask really just something like five simple check the box yes no questions.
Right.
And that’s the basis that we use.
So this is to be able to see that someone is taking a drug that indicates a serious health problem.
Yeah that’s a big step indirect response.
So now we don’t ask them currently to list whatever prescription they take because again we’re trying to keep that process very simple any time we’ve tested a longer form an application and more extensive underwriting it’s really hurt the response rate there.
And how does this work from a privacy point of view? Is the idea that when people apply is this fairly straightforward in black and white that they agree? They give you authorization to consult with the pharmacy companies? Yes they do I mean on every application there was a stand there is an authorization one it allows us to check MIB… Right.
And it – but there is a very explicit authorization that allows us to review their prescription drug history.
So yes and we founded that really hasn’t at any significant impact negative impact on our response rates it has increased the number.
We’re rejecting 4% to 5% of the business that we use to issue.
So that it has some short-term or it is having some short-term impact on our reported sales because of that but those are people that we had issued previously that are not risk that we want to accept.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Hi Mark I wanted to come back to John Nadel’s question on the accounting change just to make sure I understood your response correctly.
You talked about this $100 million of expenses that was an opportunity.
Was that if you reduced those expenses? Was that if you restructured those expenses? And is that an annual earnings number that we could expect to potentially come back and be a boost of profits.
Can you just dig into that little bit? And that’s if we just reclassify and that doesn’t affect the profitability.
That just affects the timing of the profitability.
But no you’re right there is a $100 million or expenses there in distributions that don’t appear to be deferrable beginning next year.
So that’s what I’m saying is it does give us an opportunity and we are going back and taking a very hard look at each of those.
And what can we do to reduce those and yes if we can reduce those expenses even by 5% $5 million that will now go straight to the bottom line versus be deferred to over the life of that business.
So yes it is something at this point I’m not really prepared to say what we think we can reduce those buy next year but it is something that we are very focused on and taking a hard look at.
And Tom that would be annually.
So that’s an annual $100 million to think about adjusting some percent of that? Right.
And now is there a chance and even I’m not asking to say what the probability is but is there some chance you could get all of those $100 million reclassified if you change the nature of the expense? I don’t think we can get all $100 million.
Again things like some of those expenses there are management or HR even on direct response.
We have overhead there that is not ties to the sale of the policy.
And that those expenses are not going to be deferrable.
So we don’t have really option to reclassify those.
There may will be a portion of 100 million that we can move into commission expense.
I guess the biggest opportunity there is probably at Liberty National.
But we’re not able to really quantify what that might be at this point.
Okay.
And so there’s really two things to focus on here.
One is there might be some percent of that $100 million that could be reclassified restructured in some way which wouldn’t be economic wouldn’t change your cash flow but might improve GAAP profits.
But then there is also the opportunity to reduce those costs which would affect both.
Yes that’s true.
Okay that’s clear.
The other question I had is just on just wanted to get an update on are you still for your life insurance policy’s crediting 6.5% plus so your new money rate is about 6%.
Where do you stand there? Any chance to reduce the cutting ratings to improve underwriting margins or rather investment margin? And again that is something we have discussed and we have decided for this year our new business to lower the new business interest rate crediting to 5.75 which we’re going to grade up over five years to 6.75.
And that has a little over $700 000 negative impact on our earnings this year but that has been included in our guidance.
And it’s going to grade up over five years to 6.75%? I think that’s right.
That’s just correct yeah.
Now just the last question I have is just a follow-up to that.
What is it – why should you be selling a policy that starts at 5.75 that grades up given current rate environment? Shouldn’t you be able to substantially reduce the crediting rate without a material impact or are there competitive implications if you went lower than the 5.75 grading uptake policy? It doesn’t affect our policyholders it doesn’t change – we’re not changing our pricing we are just changing an interest rate assumption.
It doesn’t we don’t have intra-sensitive policies so we are not changing a crediting rate to cash values or some deposit fund.
This is just changing our internal assumption on what interest rate we are going to credit reserves Garry you want to coming on that? Yeah I was just going to say it’s really discount rate that we are using for the reserves.
As Mark mentioned we haven’t changed our pricing as result of that.
I’m sorry okay that is okay I thought you are changing pricing no and that’s was what embedded in the crediting rate within the pricing but this is simply a change in your accounting and I should say your actuarial assumptions to set reserves.
That’s correct.
That’s why it will have a negative impact of I think $740 000 is our estimate for this year.
But Tom we the impact is slightly weak.
I think we talked about on either last call on the one before that should we change the interest rate to match this new gap discount rate.
We’ll only be increasing our premiums about 1% to 3%.
It wouldn’t be a huge increase.
And it’s if it’s an election we make annually at the interest rate environment changes that we are not saying we might not change it back in subsequent years.
But this year’s business that we issued that is the interest rate we’ve decided to go with.
And if the interest rate environment continues to stay down we may again look at putting through some modest increases to maintain those margins.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we have no other questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to Mr.
Mark McAndrew for any final remarks.
Those are our comments for this morning and thank you for joining us and we will see you next quarter.
Thanks again.
That concludes today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s Torchmark Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn call over to Mr.
Mark McAndrew Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Torchmark Corporation.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning is Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer; Larry Hutchison our General Counsel; and Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2010 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Net operating income for the second quarter was $129 million or $14 per share; a per share increase of 8% from a year ago.
Net operating income per share from continuing operations increased 14%.
Net income was $149 million or $1.32 per share up 29% from a year ago.
Excluding FAS 115 our return on equity was 13.5% and our book value per share was $33.61; an 8% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities carried at market value book value grew 10% to $35.40 per share.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue excluding United Investors grew 4% to $434 million and life underwriting margins increased 10% to $125 million.
Life net sales declined 4% in the quarter to $85.5 million while life insurance first year collected premiums were down to 2% to $62 million.
At American Income life premiums were up 8% to $151 million and life underwriting margin was up 11% to $51 million.
Net life sales declined 2% for the quarter to $36 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 4 332 up 3% from a year ago and up 7% from the last quarter.
I am pleased with the continued progress being made in American income.
The agent count is now at an all-time high and growing at a strong pace.
The number of new agents who achieved our top bonus level for the first time increased 27% during the quarter.
Our mid-level sales management ranks also increased 11% during the second-quarter.
In our Direct Response operation global life life premiums were up 5% to $151 million and life underwriting margin was up 1% to $38 million.
Net life sales were down 2% to $37 million.
While second-quarter sales were somewhat let less than expected I remain optimistic that we will see significant growth during the second half of 2011.
While the previously discussed change in our direct response underwriting which utilizes its prescription drug data has improved on margin it had a negative impact on our second-quarter sales as we rejected additional uninsurable applicants.
We had made a significant improvement in the design of our Insert media packaging which resulted in a 16% improvement in our initial response rates during the second quarter.
As a result of the improvements made in our packaging and the additional margins from the change in underwriting we have increased our third quarter Insert media distribution in excess of 20%.
While there is a 60 day to 90 day lag before these increases reflected in our net sales I am confident that we will see significant growth in our direct response life sales during the second half of this year life premiums at Liberty National declined 2% of $73 million.
Life underwriting margins was up 29% to 418 million.
Net life sales declined to 18% to $10 million.
The producing agent counter at Liberty National at the end of the second quarter was 1792 decline of 3% during the quarter and down 20% from a year ago.
On a bright note health sales at the Liberty National increased 10% from a year ago and 40% from the first quarter level as a result of the introduction of new cancer policy.
We’ve made good progress during the quarter in our efforts to conserve or enforce life insurance.
During the second quarter out new incentives conserved $2.2 million life premium.
We currently project that number to grow to $15 million to $16 million during the second half of this year and $40 million to $45 million in 2012.
On the health side premium revenue excluding part D declined 7% to $185 million while health underwriting margin was down 11% to $34 million.
Health net sales were $13 million for the quarter 15% less than a year ago.
Premium revenue for Medicare part D was $49 million which is down 8% and the underwriting margin was $5.4 million which was up 6%.
Administrative expenses were $40 million which were up 2% from a year ago and in line with our expectation.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer for his comments.
Thanks Mark.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment portfolio excess investment income capital and share repurchases.
First the investment portfolio.
On our website our three schedules that provide summary information regarding our portfolio as of June 30 2011.
As indicated on these schedules invested assets are $11.2 billion including $10.7 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Of the fixed maturities $10 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus.
Below-investment grade bonds are $721 million down from $863 million at December 2010.
The $142 million decline this year is due primarily to dispositions a $119 million of sales $12 million of cost and $10 million of maturities.
The percentage of below-investment grade bonds to fixed maturities at 6.7% the lowest that it has been since the fourth quarter of 2008.
That percentage may still be a little higher relative to our peers however due to our significantly lower portfolio leverage the percentage of below-investment grade bonds to equity excluding OCI is 20% which is likely less than the peer average.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus compared to BBB plus a year ago.
During the quarter we recognized – realized gains of $31 million pre-tax and $21 million after tax.
These gains resulted primarily for dispositions above investment grade bonds that had been impaired in previous years.
We have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $306 million compared to gains of $156 million at the end of the first quarter and $178 million a year ago.
The increase in unrealized gains in the second quarter is due primarily to treasury yields declining more in credit as far as increased.
Regarding the investment yield in the second quarter we invested $432 million in investment-grade fixed maturities primarily in industrial sectors.
We invested at an average annual effective yield of 5.75% an average rating of A-minus at an average life of 28 years.
For the six months we’ve invested $697 million at an average yield of 5.84%.
For the entire portfolio the second quarter yield was 6.56% compared to 6.62% yield in the previous quarter and a 6.74% in the second quarter of 2010.
The decline in yield is due to lower new money yields.
As of June 30 the yield on the portfolio is 6.55%.
Now turning to excess investment income excess investment income is net investment income less the interest cost and the net policy liabilities and the financing cost of our debt.
In the second quarter it was $74 million down $492 000 from a year ago.
However on a per share base reflecting the impact to our share repurchase program excess investment income was $0.65 per share up 8% over the second quarter of 2010.
As the components net investment income was up $6 million or 4% slightly lower than the 5% increase in the average invested assets.
Despite the lower yields in the bond portfolio investment income increased at around the same rate as the related assets because we had significantly more cash in short-term securities during the second quarter of 2010 than we have in 2011.
The interest cost on net policy liabilities increased to $6 million or 8% in line with a 7% increase in the average liabilities.
Now turning to capital regarding RBC we planned to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NASC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio was lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and the level of our ratings.
Finally regarding share repurchases and parent company assets in the first six months we spent $602 million to buy 14 million Torchmark shares.
So far in July we’ve used $15 million to buy another 350 000 shares.
For the full year through today we have used $617 million of parent company cash to acquire 14.3 million shares or 12% of the diluted outstanding shares at the beginning of the year.
The available liquid assets at the parent company consist of our assets on hand and the expected free cash flow from operations.
Free cash flow results from the dividends received up to the parent from the subsidiaries less the dividends paid to the Torchmark shareholders and the interest paid on the debt.
The parent began the year with liquid assets of $205 million and we expect to generate approximately $665 million of free cash flow for the entire year.
Thus the total free cash available for all the 2011 will be around $870 million.
Now in the first six months we generated about $485 million of free cash flow and that included $305 million resulting from the sale of United Investors.
As mentioned the parent used $602 million in the first six months for Torchmark share repurchases.
As a result  the parent ended quarter with $87 million of available liquid assets and that’s comprised with the $205 million of beginning assets plus $485 million are free cash flow less $602 million of share repurchases.
Going forward along with $87 million of cash on hand at the second quarter we should generate approximately $4 180 million of free cash flow in the next two quarters.
As of today after deducting the $15 million of July share repurchases the parent will have approximately $252 million available between now and the end of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are available we expected share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
Those are my comments I will turn the call back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
We are narrowing the range of our earnings guidance for 2011 and raising the low end of that range.
We currently expect our net operating income per share will range from $4.60 to $4.73.
Those are my comments for this morning.
I will now open it up for questions.
Thank you very much (Operator Instructions).
We’ll take our first question at this time Jimmy Bhullar JPMorgan.
Hi thank you.
I head question on just the base of buybacks you mentioned you have bought back $617 million worth of stock so far this year.
And should we assume that the $252 million that’s available for buybacks through year end most of that will be used up through for buybacks or are you going to keep some of the $87 million and push or are you going to keep some of that.
And the second question I had was just on Liberty National the agent count declined again in the second quarter.
Sales were weak I think they were down around 18% so what is your outlook is for growth in the agent count and the sales in the second half of the year at Liberty National.
Thanks.
Okay the first half Jimmy on share repurchase as Gary said I think we have $252 million available at the parent for the balance of the year.
It’s something that – we have – again we have a board meeting next week that we’ll continue to evaluate we took that free cash down to $87 million at the end of the last quarter.
I think it’s fair to assume that we’ll probably keep it somewhere around that level for balance of the year but again we will continue to evaluate each quarter.
As far as Liberty National the agent count decline slowed but it was still down 3% during the quarter.
I can’t – I am not expecting any big turnaround.
I think we have – we are about at the bottom there but I am not expecting for the balance of this any big turnaround.
We are seeing some growth on the health side as a result of new product we have introduced but I would expect our life sales that Liberty National for the balance of the year to stay at about the same level there.
Okay fine.
Our next question will come from Jeffrey (inaudible) KBW.
Thank you.
You talked about the kind of the trajectory for the conservative (inaudible) $15 million to $16 million in the back half $40 million to $45 million next year.
I’m sure you said this today but I think what I follow is was that companywide or is that mostly specific to American income or what we talk about.
Well that’s companywide.
We do we have the most impact at American income and again I think we put we have a new exhibit out on the website now showing lapses by distribution.
We think we can conserve 20% of the lapses.
In 2012 at American income ranging down to I think roughly 13% of liberty national and roughly 15% in the direct response.
So the bigger portion in the second quarter we first started with American income because that is obviously our most profitable business.
But if those numbers that I gave are across the board and we will have an impact in all three of the major distribution systems but it will be a little higher at American Income.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then on the prescription drug underwriting impact can you remind us kind of what the trajectory is there? Is that something where a better mortality will bleed in over many years or it something that maybe a year from now it actually will be really visible to us what do we expect there? Well it will take.
It will bleed in basically over a number of years.
I look it will have more impact and that allow us to grow our sales but on insert media side which is about 60% of our sales it improves our margin by I believe it’s 16% to 18%.
Now that’s a significant block of business but that’s just our new business going forward.
So we’ll have some impact and it’ll be a growing impact on our financials.
It gives us more margin to work with as far as increasing our sales as I mentioned earlier and partially as the result of that we are increasing our volume – our distribution volume by I think 22% in the third quarter and right now we anticipate increasing our volume by 24% in the fourth quarter.
So you’ll see more of the impact on the sales side.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Mark.
And next we’ll hear from Randy Binner FBR Capital Markets.
Hey thanks.
I have a question about – there is a callable prefers out there I believe that have a pretty high coupon I think it’s 710 basis points and so I think that there is $120 million worth in the callable and there were callable in June and so I didn’t see anything in the results that indicated that those have been called to me it seems like kind of a no brainer to try and do it just because you have such much cheaper sources of funding but I didn’t know if that was still on the table if there is color around that if that a big buyback in the quarter maybe had anything to do with that I’d love to hear color on that potential opportunity? Okay Randy that’s something we take a look at they because callable as of June 1st and they are callable as they are they are due past and they are callable in whole or part and at par and they’ll continue to be call but one (inaudible).
We did take a look at that in terms of how to redeem it if we felt the use of cash – if we’re going to use cash we felt that using the cash or share repurchases provided a greater return.
We also looked at though if we refinance and if we issue the similar security – the summer trust referred that the key point we’d actually be able to higher than 70 and we’ve today.
Because remember this is a very long-term as you know the 35 years around on the security so it’s – for long-term security – it’s not that better rate.
(inaudible) we looked at those if we refinanced or reissuing debt we looked at – for example (inaudible) two-year debt we can do that at a lower rate and we’d pick up $0.01 to $0.03 maybe earnings per share.
That concern there is the refinancing risk five to 10 years what interest rates will be and may be much higher.
So our current thinking is that we’ll kind of stay where we are and not redeem them but that’s something we’ll continue to look at as conditions change.
I guess I mean if the – does the buyback clearly has slowed from the pace of the first half I mean there is less cash available for buyback there is (inaudible) meaning that the earnings yield on your buyback is better than 710 basis points right now according to most analysts forward numbers.
So that I guess there but if you had less cash available for buyback would that effect the decision or is it a longer term decision there? Well I think it will be a longer-term decision in that but the fact that would matter though you know how consistent our cash flow is – the free-cash flow.
We’ll continue to do generate free cash and what we might do is we must start redeeming or calling them in parts as supposed to calling the whole 120 million at one time.
Very good.
Thank you.
Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs is next.
Thanks so much.
I just want to see if you guys can update us on sort of the liquidity buffer that you guys had been keeping at the parent company.
I believe it was roughly $200 million or so.
It’s sort of certainly below that today as we get kind of through here and maybe some of the economic uncertainty increases how are you thinking about moving forward with that question? Well Chris that’s why we are not giving a lot of guidance there because as Garry mentioned we have $252 million available at the parent for the balance of this years.
Obviously the pace of our share repurchase so far in July we have slowed down and it’s something we will continue to evaluate.
Sure there is some definite uncertainties out there today and even in our guidance I think we put in a range of 70 – I think $78 million Gary that $228 million as far as the range.
It’s right.
Of share repurchase in our guidance.
It didn’t make a lot of difference it only made a couple of cents difference in our earnings for the balance of the year.
But it’s something I’m not really prepared to say how much we will spend the balance of the year.
We will continue to evaluate as we go.
Okay.
And then within the aging count trends obviously American income you guys are having some success there.
Can you comment a little bit on sort of some of the drivers there and are there any takeaways that you can try and pull out to try and improve sort of the downward trend we have been seeing at Liberty National? Well first of I will talk about American Income I am very pleased with where we are at.
I know sales were still down 2% but if you look – if you look at the numbers we were down 4% going into the quarter and rising accounts and were up 3% at the end of the quarter.
We grew by almost 300 agents during the quarter.
If we can continue close to that pace if we can continue and grow 250 agents a quarter the next two by year end our agent count be up 25% from a year ago and sales will follow that trend.
There is not a lot new going on there is more just a refocus.
As I mentioned we have grown our middle management ranks in a very concerted effort to promote more people into middle management.
We grew that by 11% during the quarter.
The other problem we had last year even though recruiting was up we – because we did not have more middle managers and because we lost focus on the training of those new agents our turnover went up and that’s why that number as far as new bonus earners hitting the top level bonus those are the people we retain and for that number to be up 27% from a year ago it is being reflected in higher agent retention.
So all of the things that we’ve talked about last really six to nine months are coming – are panning out.
We are refocused we are hiring more agents but we are also retaining more agents.
So I feel very good about where American Income is and their sales will come back very strongly in the second half.
Okay thank you.
And just one last one any updates sort of on EITFO9-G in terms of impact or implementation for you guys? No no update on that.
The current status of that is that first of all we would like to talk directly which I think most companies well.
So we’re in a process of doing our calculations of what the initial write-down will be the DAC asset but there is still a lot of implementation issues that haven’t been fully resolved and I know the big four firms are still consulting with the SEC and how to interpret certain provisions and of course as we work through that that effects and we’re doing so.
I think all this should be cleared up in the third quarter and by the time we’ll get to the analyst calls for the third quarter.
We will have defensive numbers at that point.
Okay.
Thank for the time.
And next we’ll hear from Colin Devine with Citi.
Good morning good afternoon I guess now.
Couple of questions first I guess with the buybacks you’ve done – I appreciate you’re still fair amount of debt capacity but does that mean that M&amp;As is really not something that’s likely depend of this year and I suppose that also going to bring it up your current thinking on actually with first command.
Then Mark with respect to Liberty I appreciate your – it sounds like getting fairly frustrated with it.
What is not working there that clearly works so well for your American income? Okay.
First on the M&amp;A activity.
Colin we have looked extensively and really don’t see anything out there when we made the decisions obviously buyback that much in the quarter.
It was because we didn’t see any M&amp;A activity on the short-term horizon.
So your conclusion there is accurate.
Liberty National as I have mentioned before it really is there are so many differences between Liberty and American Income.
And again I’ve equated it in the past to franchise versus a company-owned store and American Income it’s a straight commission situation whereas the Liberty National the agents and managers are employees those are our offices.
We have a lot of fixed expenses and the production pervasion is sustainably less.
It was about half of what it is at American Income.
It’s – we’ve been really over the last two or three years trying to move Liberty more to an American Income and we will continue to do so but it’s just not a quick fix there.
The things that work at American Income we have tried to implement similar-type programs at Liberty National but they – up to this point they have not been successful.
Let’s get first command you got any comment on that and then just – and also Liberty with the new sort of debt treatment because that’s – you’ve seen me sort of put that business model even under more pressure than it’s at right now? Well that’s correct.
First off – I’m sorry first amendment it’s independent agencies that we continue to – their sales have been down now for number of years.
It’s a very persistent business and very consistently profitable business.
And we’ll continue to – there are no plans to do anything at this point but it is an independent agency that we really don’t control.
But it’s – another one I was saying is we don’t believe that we get fair value out of it.
We don’t control the distribution but it’s become a relatively small piece of our total so really no plans to do anything there.
Okay.
And then with the (inaudible) change I mean does that really put even more pressure on you right now with Liberty? It does and again that’s something that we have been addressing and we’ll continue to address.
The number of offices that we have at Liberty has – I think we are somewhere in the mid-90s now where I believe a year ago we were at 150.
So we have been very much addressing some of that where we have in reducing our expenses there.
And we are continuing to look for ways to lessen the impact of the debt change.
Okay thank you.
And next we hear from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hi good afternoon everybody.
A couple of questions for you one is just to go back to the guidance and the buybacks and just – I just want to understand your revised guidance it appears I think as you mentioned Mark in response to somebody’s question it seems you revised guidance includes a higher level of buybacks than you were originally assuming six or nine months ago when you originally gave us that guidance.
Is that the case? Well there is no doubt at beginning of the year even though we knew what the available cash would be the reason we had such a wide range was not just how much we would spend on share repurchase but at what price? So obviously earlier in the year pre-split the stock was up around $68 so when we ran our projections out we ran not only different amounts being spent but different prices.
So we were able – we did spend towards the high-end of our guidance as far as the amount of money we spend but we also got at a lower price than what our guidance was.
So now that the bulk of that share repurchase has been completed and we know the price and the amount it definitely took the bottom end of their range out of the picture.
Understood.
I guess I was sort of – I was wondering if upper end of their range would if otherwise being higher if not for – something else going on the business relative to your original guidance I’m not sure.
I think everything else is going pretty according to the plan as far as even last quarter even though we were under the Street estimate we’re right where our projections and the same this quarter.
Other than share repurchase our earnings are about where we thought they would be at the beginning of the year.
And then okay.
So separately just a question on the life underwriting margin and my model definitely doesn’t go back nearly as far as your business does but as far as I can see your underwriting margin on the life insurance business this quarter was as high as I have ever seen it.
Is that sustainable? Is there is something that – when it just really well this quarter that – we are going to think about that more like we have seen it over the past few years? Well it was better this quarter but particular at Liberty it was I think up 29% but that was more a result of a year ago it was particularly bad quarter.
I guess I’m just looking at underwriting income divided by premiums? It was a little above the average but Gary you have any comments on that.
Well it was for example 29%.
I think it’s just about higher than where we were last quarter and the big part of that was Liberty.
We’ve had two as I said this quarter was unusually low in terms of life claims whereas and if you look at last year’s comparison of – the second quarter last year was particularly high claim quarter.
We’re seeing some fluctuation in those life claims we anticipate that we get back to more of a norm and so I would think that we’re now looking for that level to continue at Liberty and as a result.
If it goes back to more than norm then we’ll get back to around the 28% level that we reported last couple of quarters.
Okay.
So..
28 year-to-date.
I think that’s sustainable we were one point over that in the second quarter.
Okay that’s – I’m just going to ask you if more the year-to-date was a better indication.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
(Operator Instructions).
And next we will hear from Mark Hughes with Sun Trust.
Yeah thank you.
The use for the prescription drug data for underwriting how much to that dampen sales in the quarter can you say? Well again in the – it had more of an impact on the insert media which is 60% of our sales we’re declining above on additional 5% but I will give you a little more clave on what’s going on in direct response.
Again the insert media side which is 60% of our direct response sales.
We increased as a result of the potential gain on the underwriting margin.
In the first quarter we increased our circulation by 12% but we saw a 13% decline in our response rate so it kind of washed.
We actually did not see an increment of volume of new inquiries coming in people saying that they are interested in buying life insurance.
However as I mentioned we through some testing that we did we found a package that performed much better so in the second quarter our circulation there we increased at 9% but we had a 17% improvement in our response rates as a result of packaging.
So we actually saw a 27% improvement increase in the number of people responding to us in that marketplace.
So going forward again we’re now back to where we were increasing the outbound circulation there 22% and 24% in the next two quarters.
So we feel very good about where we are at going forward but the first quarter was – our response rates were disappointing there but that has definitely turned around in the second quarter and we expect to see good growth in the balance of this year and next year.
The problem is that there is a lag between the initial response and the time we report sales.
Right.
Now the good package or better package you said on the second quarter is that more broadly distributed in Q3 or are these new packages that you’re going to be distributing in the back half? Well now it actually – it’s something we had tested previously that we rolled out within the second quarter.
Again that’s why we went from a 13% decline in our response rates to 16% 17% improvement in the second quarter as a result of rolling out with that new package.
We expect continued we continue to expect to see that improvement in response rates second half of the year.
But again you need to understand that – those are people that send in our cards saying yes I’m interested in buying life insurance.
We then over the next six months or sending them numerous product packages and they in turn send an application back in.
But even after the application is received because there is a dollar introductory offer we don’t treat it as a sale until they pay the first fully initial premium.
So that’s why I say there is a 60 day to 90 days lag from the time we get that initial inquiry and before we start reporting the sales that’s why again the second quarter sales numbers did not grow even though the number of new inquiries coming in grew at a very nice clip about – that will be reflected in higher sales for several quarters down the road.
(Inaudible) the visibility for Q3 and Q4? Yes.
How when you look at this kind of economic environment where there is – I don’t know if you can characterize it but does it make a difference – much of the difference on your business when you’ve got – I don’t know economic slowdown let’s say more uncertainty in the economy should that have much impact? Well it hasn’t and direct response it has and again that’s our constant challenge as I mentioned again in the first quarter our response rates were down 13% from a year ago.
Basically using the same package that we were using a year ago and borrowing us continuing to find ways to be better our sales would be down fairly significantly in direct response.
But again we continue to look for ways to (inaudible) as a result.
Even in the difficult economy we fully expect to grow.
Great.
Thank you.
Currently we have no questions in the queue but I’d like to take the opportunity remind our audience (Operator Instructions).
We will pause for just one moment.
And we have no questions in the queue at this time.
I’ll turn the conference over to our host for any closing or additional remarks.
All right.
I want to thank everyone for joining us I guess this afternoon now and we’ll talk to you again next quarter.
Have a great day.
And that does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to Torchmark Corporation’s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
And for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mark McAndrew Chairman and CEO of Torchmark Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And for those of you on the East Coast good afternoon.
Joining me this morning is Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer; Larry Hutchison our General Counsel; and Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2010 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Net operating income for the third quarter was $129 million or $1.22 per share; and a per share increase of 13% from a year ago.
Net income was $137 million or $1.30 per share a 38% increase on a per share basis.
Excluding FAS 115 our return on equity was 14.3% for the quarter and our book value per share was $35.20 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities carried at market value book value grew 16% to $40.92 per share.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue excluding United Investors grew 3% to $430 million and Life underwriting margins increased 5% to $121 million.
Life net sales declined 1% in the quarter to $78 million.
At American Income Life Premiums were up 9% to $154 million while Life underwriting margins were up 8% to $51 million.
Life net sales increased 8% for the quarter to $36 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the third quarter was 4 448 which was up 9% from a year ago and up 3% during the quarter.
I believe that American Income is back on track.
New agent recruiting was up 11% from a year ago.
The number of new agents who achieved our top bonus level for the first time increased 40% from a year ago.
And our mid-level sales management ranks have grown 23% from a year ago.
American Income I believe is now in position to see renewed double-digit growth in sales during the fourth quarter and throughout 2012.
In our Direct Response operation at Globe Life Life premiums were up 3% to $145 million and Life underwriting margin was also up 3% to $37 million.
Net Life sales were down 4% to $31 million.
As a result of the changes in our underwriting which we previously discussed and improvements in our package design we increased our insert media circulation by 22% in the third quarter.
The responses received from these inserts increased 43% during the quarter.
There is a significant lag from the time those responses are received until a net sale is recognized.
However we are confident that the increased responses will result in net sales growth in the fourth quarter as well as subsequent quarters.
For the fourth quarter we intend to increase our insert media circulation by 38% over last year.
However due to the uncertainty in the economy our guidance projects only mid single-digit growth in Direct Response sales for the fourth quarter and full-year 2012.
Life Premiums at Liberty National declined 2% to $72 million and Life underwriting margin was up 5% to $16 million.
Net Life sales declined 23% to $9 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National at the end of the third quarter was 1 578 which was down 27% from a year ago.
Health sales at Liberty National jumped 47% as a result of some new product offerings in our worksite payroll deduction market.
Effective January 1 of 2012 all sales office and lead expenses at Liberty National will become the responsibility of our branch managers as we continue to move Liberty National to a model similar to American Income.
Also as of November 1 of this year all new agents will be hired on an independent contractor basis versus employee again following the American Income model.
While these changes may have some short-term effect on our sales we believe they are necessary to preserve our profit margins and to put Liberty National in a position to achieve long-term growth.
We continue to make excellent progress in our efforts to reduce our lapses in our Life Insurance businesses.
As I mentioned on the last call during the second quarter we were able to conserve $2.2 million of annualized premium through our new conservation initiatives.
For the third quarter we were able to conserve $5.8 million of annualized premium.
These numbers will continue to grow as we expand our conservation efforts.
For 2012 our guidance assumes $30 million to $35 million of annualized premium will be conserved next year.
On the Health side premium revenue excluding part D declined 6% to $177 million while Health underwriting margin was down 8% to $34 million.
Health net sales grew 26% to $16 million.
In addition to the previously mentioned growth at Liberty National the United American Independent Agency sales grew 46% to $7.6 million for the quarter reflecting improvement in the Medicare supplement marketplace in both individual and group.
For 2012 we currently project 10% to 15% growth in our net Health sales.
Premium revenue from Medicare part D declined 5% to $50 million while underwriting margin improved 18% to $7 million.
For 2012 we have developed a new lower cost part D plan which will allow us to pick up 76 000 low income subsidized auto enrollees as well as grow our individual sales.
This new product is priced with the same underwriting margin as our existing products.
We do expect however for part D revenues to increase by 40% to 50% next year.
Administrative expenses were $40 million for the quarter up 4% from a year ago.
They were roughly $800 000 over our projection primarily as a result of additional salary expenses associated with our conservation efforts.
For 2012 we anticipate a 1% to 2% increase in administrative expenses.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer for his comments.
Thanks Mark.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment portfolio capital and share repurchases.
First the investment portfolio.
On our website are three schedules that provide summary information regarding our portfolio as of September 30 2011.
As indicated on these schedules invested assets are $11.2 billion including $10.7 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Of the fixed maturities $10 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus.
Below-investment grade bonds were $734 million down from the $863 million at December 2010.
The $129 million decline this year is due primarily to $142 million of dispositions offset partially by $12 million of downgrades.
The percentage of below-investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 6.8% compared to 8.3% at the end of 2010.
That percentage may still be a little high relative to our peers.
However due to our significantly lower portfolio leverage the percentage of below-investment grade bonds to equity excluding OCI is 20% which is likely less than the peer average.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A-minus compared to BBB-plus a year ago.
We had net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $942 million compared to gains of $306 million at the end of the second quarter and $572 million a year ago.
The increase in unrealized gains in the third quarter is due primarily to treasury yields declining more than the credit spreads increased.
Now regarding our investment yield in the third quarter we invested $134 million in investment-grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial sectors.
We invested at an average annual effective yield of 5.53% an average rating of BBB-plus and an average Life of 29 years.
For the nine months we’ve invested $831 million at an average yield of 5.79% and an average rating of A-minus.
For the entire portfolio the third quarter yield was 6.54% compared to 6.56% in the previous quarter and 6.68% in the third quarter of 2010.
The continual decline in the yield is due to the lower new money yields.
As of September 30 the yield on the portfolio is 6.53%.
Regarding RBC we’ve planned to maintain our capital level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NASC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of the consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and the level of our ratings.
Regarding share repurchases and parent company assets in the first nine months we’ve spent $720 million to buy 17 million Torchmark shares.
So far in October we’ve used $14 million to buy another 400 000 shares.
For the full year through today we have used $734 million of parent company cash to acquire 17.6 million shares or 15% of the diluted outstanding shares at the beginning of the year.
At September 30 the parent company had $166 million on hand and should generate approximately $6 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarter.
As of today after deducting the $14 million of October share repurchases the parent will have approximately $158 million available between now and the end of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
And if market conditions are favorable we’d expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
Now before I turn the call back to Mark we would like to discuss the impact of two issues the new accounting rules for DAC and the current interest rate environment.
Regarding DAC on January 1 2012 the company will adopt ASU 2010-26 which changes the rules regarding deferred acquisition cost.
This standard will change the timing of GAAP profits to the extent that certain expenses deferred currently will not be deferred under the new rules.
However it does not affect our overall profitability cash flows or statutory earnings.
We will elect to adopt the new rules retroactively which means that DAC will be written down to the level as if the new standard had been in place in prior periods.
Going forward the earnings impact will the combination of the reduction in expenses deferred on newly issued policies somewhat offset by the reduced amortization of DAC resulting from the retroactive write down.
We currently estimate that the retroactive write down will be between 15% to 25% of the current DAC asset which will result in a 9% to 15% reduction in GAAP equity excluding OCI.
In addition we expect that 2012 earnings will be 1% to 2% or $0.06 to $0.10 per share lower than they would have been under the old accounting rules.
And we also project that our ROE will rise from the current 14% level to somewhere between 15% and 17%.
These estimates were included in our guidance for 2012.
We will give more definitive guidance in the fourth quarter analyst call.
Finally I’d like to discuss the current low interest rate environment and the impact of a lower for longer rate scenario.
Our concern regarding an extended period of low interest rates involves the impact on earnings but not the balance sheet.
In response to lower interest rates we plan to raise the new business premium rates on the majority of American Income’s Life products and the Direct Response (inaudible) products by 5%.
These increases will provide additional margin to help offset reductions to excess investment income on new policies without having a detrimental impact of sales.
However in an extended low interest rate environment the portfolio yield will continue to decline as we invest new money at lower rates and thus will pressure excess investment income.
However the decline will be slower than might be expected since on average only 2% to 3% of the fixed maturities will run off each year over the next five years.
To help quantify the impact of extended lower rates on excess investment income we conducted a stress test assuming a new money yield of 4.75% for the next five years along with a GAAP reserve discount rate of 4.75% graded to 6.5% on policies issued during that time period.
Under that scenario our portfolio yield would drop to somewhere between 5.95% and 6.10% after five years and the average GAAP discount rate for the entire in-force block would be around 5.6%.
As such we would earn a spread of 35 to 50 basis points over the net policy liabilities while earning the full 595 to 610 basis points on our equity.
As you can see we would still generate substantial excess investment income along with our high underwriting margins.
Now let’s switch to the balance sheet.
Due to the nature of the products we sell in our higher underwriting margins our DAC and benefit reserve balances will not be significantly impacted by an extended low interest rate environment.
Unlike many of our peers most of our in-force business consists of straightforward protection line policies that are not interest sensitive and they were accounted for in accordance to FAS 60.
Under FAS 60 we will not increase amortization of DAC or put up additional benefit reserves due to interest rate fluctuations unless a loss recognition situation occurs.
We have conducted loss recognition testing using our September 30 financial data.
In order to have a loss recognition situation in all the Life business we would have to believe that our overall portfolio yield would drop to 4% and remain there permanently.
We don’t believe there’s a reasonable set of circumstance that this scenario would occur.
As such we’re not concerned about the low interest rate environment affecting our balance sheet through adjustments to DAC reserves or goodwill.
The only block of business where extended low interest rates might affect the balance sheet is our fixed annuities which were accounted for under FAS 97.
However due to the size of our annuity block any impact would be insignificant.
With regards to statutory financials we performed the New York 7 cash flow testing scenarios at each year in accordance with the regulatory requirements.
We updated this testing at the end of the third quarter to incorporate the lower treasury rates and determine that we still generate adequate surplus in each of those seven scenarios.
Therefore no additional statutory benefit reserves are required.
Finally a low interest environment can affect towards more RBC related to the fixed annuities.
However any impact there would not be significant.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
For 2011 we project our net operating income per share will be within the range of $4.65 to $4.69 per share.
For next year we are projecting our net operating income per share to be between $5.10 and $5.40 per share.
I would like to reiterate that this guidance reflects the $0.06 to $0.10 reduction as a result of the changed NDAC accounting.
Those are my comments for this morning.
We will now open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from the side of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
I had a couple of questions.
First one for Mark if you could talk about your sales expectations at Liberty National.
In the past when you’ve tried to make changes over adjust commission; there’s been generally more disruption than initially expected.
So I realized Liberty is smaller than it used to be but it’s still about 10% of your Life sales.
So I was wondering if the momentum at American Income and Direct Response next year would be offset by this weakness that Liberty National overall.
And then secondly for Gary you mentioned $158 million of cash at the parent company.
How much do you think you’ll need to maintain in this type of an environment as a cushion and assuming that whatever that cushion is anything above that would be used for buyback? Okay well first at Liberty National.
You’re correct Jimmy that any major changes in the past we have seen a disruption.
And our guidance we’re still assuming a mid single-digit decline in our Life sales at Liberty National next year although we do expect to see some growth in our Health sales at Liberty National next year.
On the other hand we have announced these changes a couple of weeks ago.
And they were well received.
I will point out a year-ago we had 165 offices at Liberty National.
And today we’re down to 75.
We have closed or consolidated most of the underperforming offices there and I felt like these changes were very well received.
I really believe that the branch managers that we have now have the desire to grow the ability to grow as well as the tools to grow.
So I remain optimistic that we will see a turnaround at Liberty National next year although again in our guidance we have assumed a small continued decline in our Life sales.
And Jimmy as far as the cash cushion is concerned I would think we would have a cushion somewhere between $50 million to $100 million.
There’s not any specific need that we’re targeting but we feel like we do need to cushion it.
It should somewhere be in that range.
Okay.
And then just one more on med stuff.
You mentioned you’re – part D you mentioned enrollment expectation.
But what’s going on in terms of pricing in the med stuff market? We’ve heard of some of the major medical companies trying to expand further in that business.
Can you talk about just pricing trends in the Medicare market? Well overall our pricing trends have been very favorable.
Again we re-priced our products I think last year and the largest selling product – the high deductible plan F I know we have actually reduced our rate the last two years which has made it more attractive.
Really over the last several years we haven’t seen – we’ve seen very small single-digit increases on all of our products.
I’m not seeing – even though we’re seeing some activity there it’s still a very small part of our business.
And while we expect some growth there we don’t expect it to get – we’re not projecting it’s going to get back to where it was 10 years ago.
So it will continue to be a competitive marketplace.
But again we think in a competitive situation we’re in better shape than we’ve been in a number of years.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from the side of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Mark first on the part D I got – maybe this is terminology.
You’ve lowered the costs.
You’re going to pick up 76 000 auto enrollees that’s going to lead to 40% to 50% increase in revenues.
But you said the same margin.
Now do you mean by that the same profit margin like around 10% or whatever? Or are you talking about the ultimate earnings? It has the same margin as the percentage of premium.
Okay.
So...
As our other products.
We basically came up with a product that has a little higher deductible and also a more narrow formulary as far as what prescriptions are covered which allowed us to bring – we still have the same products that we offered last year.
But we added another product which has a lower cost which got us below that medium pricing level which qualified us I think in 21 out of 34 regions for the low income subsidized people.
So in addition to the 76 000 that we’re picking up immediately we’ll start picking up about 2 000 additional people each month people turning 65 as a result of that also.
So yes we feel very comfortable that we will see that kind of growth in our part D revenues next year.
Okay.
And then if I may continue on Globe the discussion with regards to responses those numbers sound huge yet the sales guidance I guess for conservative reasons isn’t there.
I mean what could go wrong between the responses and the sales? Well...
Go wrong is probably the wrong word.
No.
It’s an okay terminology.
Again you have to understand in the insert media the whole process.
And it’s a long process.
We first put a very simple insert piece into some of the media whether it’s a coupon pack or a newspaper or a DirecTV bill.
That is what we increased that volume by 22% in the third quarter.
People then send us a response either most of those responses are reply cards that are mailed in although they can also call in or get on the Internet.
But most of those people send back a reply card.
Once we get the reply card in and the number of responses we got we’re up over 50%.
So they were big numbers.
Yeah substantially.
Once we get that reply in we start sending a series of product offerings really not just the next 3 months but 6 months 12 months even out further than that.
For example historically the first product offering we send out we get 8% to 9% of those people to buy.
The second one it goes down in the 3% to 4% range.
The third one it goes down in the 2.5% to 3% range.
But we continue to get people to reply to those product mailings which include an application and rates for an extended period of time.
But even after these people send the application in it has $1 for the first month introductory offer.
So after we issue the policy we then have to 30 days later we send them a bill.
And until they pay that renewal premium we don’t treat it as a sale.
So in fact I apologize.
I should have better lag numbers for exactly how long after that insert media increases will we see those sales.
And I will have better numbers for the next call.
But again the first step of that the number of responses is up according to our plan.
It just takes an extended period of time for that to be turned into what we report as net sale.
Okay.
I appreciate all that.
Let me just ask one little follow up to that.
Is there anything about – I know the new underwriting that you’re doing that could lead to the ultimate hit rate how long it takes to be lower than it has been historically? Well again that’s one of the things we’re issuing a smaller percentage of the applications we’re getting in.
So that does offset somewhat.
Okay.
That we decline I think its 5% to 6% more of the business that we’re getting in.
So that does somewhat offset the growth in sales.
If we weren’t doing that our sales would be 5% 6% higher although the profitability of those sales would be lower.
So that is one of the factors that temper the growth in sales.
But also again as I’ve mentioned before the insert medias the one aspect of our business that the response rates do tend to follow the consumer confidence index.
And so again we tempered a little bit because even though the inquiries are up we could still see – if you say what could go wrong we could still see those response rates for the fulfillment packages could go down or the percentage of the people who end up paying beyond the dollar introductory offer could go down as a result of economic conditions.
So we’re trying to be on the conservative side there.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the side of Edward Spehar with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
Good morning I guess.
Mark could you go over one more time the conservation numbers for – what they were in the second and third quarter and then what your expectation is for ‘12? Okay sure.
In the second quarter our new conservation efforts in addition to what our agents are doing we conserve about $2.2 million of annualized premium.
In the third quarter that number increased to $5.8 million.
And I would point out over 60% of that business is being conserved is that American Income which again is our – it’s where we focus our initial efforts because it’s our highest margin business obviously.
But in our guidance for next year we have assumed somewhere between $30 million to $35 million of conserved annualized premium.
Our goal is still to beat that number but that is what we’ve used in our guidance.
And when we think about the earnings impact of a dollar of conserved premium given the fact that it’s more than 60% American Income.
How should we think about what the dollar amount to the bottom line is of that? Well it’s one of those things for example the – it takes time.
The $5.8 million that we conserved this quarter had almost no impact this quarter because those people – a vast majority of those of people are paying monthly.
So it had almost unnoticeable impact this quarter.
But as we continue to conserve business that number will grow.
In our guidance the conservation added about $0.03 a share after tax next year.
Okay.
So it’s not a big number? Not at this point.
It’s something that will continue to grow over time as we continue to do this.
And each quarter it will continue to add more value.
Okay.
And I meant the part D so you’re saying that the expectation is that the top and bottom line should be up 40% to 50% next year versus this year? It should be very – yes that would be a reasonable expectation.
Yes.
And then when we think about I know you said that the sort of growth from those that will be turning 65 that’s a positive.
But if we think about this business when you first had a big bump up and then it was sort of like it was a onetime thing you got it and it just sort of stayed there.
Would you think about this bump here as sort of we go to a new level on and it’s kind of another plateau? Well if we continue to stay below that median it will be more of a growth.
It will be more growth going forward.
For example we’re going to add immediately pick up 76 000 people but we will be adding about 2 000 new people net each month.
So it will be – by the end of the next year we should have grown by about 100 000 people through the auto enrollees.
Those new people turning 65 will continue to add to that.
So I would expect it to contribute some growth going forward.
Not as much as obviously it will make.
Okay.
And then the final question is your Life premium I think was up 3% this quarter.
Your Health premium was down 6%.
Given all of the sales numbers that you’re anticipating next year and the sales that have happened recently are these numbers that should be relatively stable next year? I mean in terms of the growth rates we don’t see any real pickup in those.
Like is Health going to continue to decline mid single-digits Life maybe grow a few percent and we won’t start to see growth until ‘13? Well hold on just a second here.
I’ve got more detailed numbers.
If I look at our total Life premium I think we’re – at our midpoint we’re expecting a little over 4% growth in our Life premium.
So I think that’s slightly better than where it’s at today.
On the Health side we’re still expecting about 6% decline in our Health premiums for next year.
So that’s at the midpoint of our guidance.
So I think that’s a fair statement.
Okay.
And then I mean in buybacks are we sort of assuming that like typically all free cash flow used for buybacks or is there any difference in what you’re assuming in the guidance? Well obviously again it’s something that we’ll continue to evaluate each quarter.
But right now we feel comfortable with really about $50 million cushion.
We want to keep that for the end of the year just until we know for sure what our year-end RBC is going to be.
And again borrowing acquisition potentials or if there’s anything else we still believe that share repurchase is a good use for it.
And right now I don’t see any reason to hold more than that for a cushion.
So in terms – so when you think about your guidance you’re assuming that whatever free cash flow you generate in 2012 is used buyback stock.
That’s correct.
In our guidance we had assumed we would use basically our free cash.
We’ve assumed at different price levels but we have basically assumed that we would use it to repurchase stock.
Can Gary remind us what that number – I don’t know if you’ve given us anything on that number expectation for next year.
Gary free cash next year we anticipate being about $360 million? Yeah it should be around $350 million to $360 million.
We didn’t just base on our preliminary estimate.
Okay and that’s after dividends? Right.
(inaudible) okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sure.
The next question comes from Jeffrey Schuman with KBW.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thank you.
Hello.
I think Ed got me started on this but maybe we can continue.
I’m struggling to contemplate the 2012 guidance particularly after you’re now telling us that it incorporates the impact of the DAC change.
So the midpoint range is 525.
If we back up the impact of the DAC change it will be 530 to 535 and that’s against the consensus of 510.
I’m kind of running out of ways to rationalize that because I think as you run through the premium numbers I think probably most of us are too far off there.
I think most of us know what to anticipate in share repurchase.
Conservation is only (inaudible) issue.
Part D sounds like some upside.
Obviously you don’t reconcile against our models.
But I mean what other thing should be on our list to think about? Well I guess that’s where no doubt the impact of share repurchase is a big item.
And we don’t get to – we said at the beginning of this year we wouldn’t get the full impact of the United Investors sale until first second quarter of next year.
It was actually dilutive by $0.05 to $0.10 per share this year and it will be accretive next year as we get the benefit of that.
But other things the expense reductions we’ve seen at Liberty National.
Again we’ve closed 90 offices in the last 12 months and those expenses are going to obviously expenses that would no longer be deferrable.
Those expense changes will add about $0.11.
But the part D we’ve increased will add about $0.05.
The change in the underwriting and Direct Response will add about $0.02 after tax.
So there’s a number of different factors adding to its.
But still share repurchase at the current multiple if we would have been double-digit growth in earnings per share this year without the United Investors sale.
So and I’m not again we don’t – you’re right we don’t reconcile to your model but it’s even at the beginning of this year it’s not far off where we thought we would be.
Okay.
That’s all helpful.
I mean the share repurchase is powerful although I think most of us probably can’t have that already worked in probably the Liberty expenses the part D a couple of the other things maybe not so much.
So that’s our helpful thoughts.
Thanks.
You welcome.
The next question comes from Colin Devine with Citi.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Good morning.
I have just I guess sort of gray areas I’d like to talk about.
First on Liberty Mark I think we’re now at least 27 quarters in terms of the agent force shrinking and particularly the sort of not the first of your agents but the renewal agents which are similar in driving a lot of the sales here.
Where do you think that finally bottoms? Is it going to be next year? You talked about I guess growing the number of managers what does it take to sort of get that to finally turnaround would be question number one.
Question number two.
Have you given any thought to changing the dividend policy to maybe doing a little more in dividends than buybacks? And then the last one on the M&amp;A front certainly you mentioned in the past you’ve looked at some things.
Is there anything else out there that you could do that might help to give Liberty sort of a booster side here? Okay.
Liberty National that is still the biggest question mark that we have.
And again I feel good about the changes that we’ve made.
I think they were received well.
But the next I would say 90 days next three to four months is really going to really see how well those changes were received.
We have made them much more businessmen much more entrepreneurs versus just managing our offices.
The one big thing Colin that you need to remember regardless of the level of sales going forward we have moved most of the fixed expenses at Liberty into variable expenses.
So the least the margins on the business that we write at Liberty National will be predictable going forward.
But again I can’t – I believe that by the first of the year we will be at our low point at Liberty National.
But only – we’re really going to have to wait and see what that is.
We’re still expecting a small decline again in our Life sales although we do expect our Health sales to pick up.
But I think the next three or four months will definitely we’ll have a better answer to that.
As far as dividend goes and buyback we definitely discussed that.
We had been slowly raising our dividend each year for the last several years.
But it still comes down to – at the current PE that we’re trading at we still believe buyback is a very good use of the money.
But it is something particularly if we get in a very low interest rate environment we obviously could pay a much higher dividend.
But at this point there’s no definite plans to change our dividend policy.
That might change if the PE comes up some.
As far as M&amp;A I don’t – particularly right now until we see some positive results at Liberty National I would be in fact I would just say I would not be interested in buying another home service company.
Even though the pricing maybe attractive on it.
You’d almost have to look at it as a close block of business because particularly the changes in bank accounting it’s very difficult to show a GAAP profit in a home service business.
So I don’t see anything on the short-term horizon there.
Okay.
Well Mark and just sort of following up then.
(Inaudible) you mentioned that obviously the change in the DAC accounting.
With what you’ve been able to do now at Liberty at the very least have you made then Torchmark’s earnings less sensitive to the pace of improvement at Liberty under the new rules because you’ve moved to this variable comp system? Absolutely Colin.
There’s no doubt.
And the change in the DAC accounting even though these were plans that we have been moving towards for a number of years the change in the DAC accounting definitely sped up our plan to move it – to eliminate those fixed expenses and move them to more variable expense.
So it does – when people wonder why we’re not more impacted by the change of the DAC accounting the change at Liberty National is a big piece of that that we have moved the bulk not only the office expenses but the lead expenses we were picking up.
We have eliminated those and moved them to the branch manager.
Okay.
All right thank you.
You’re welcome.
The next question comes from the side of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks.
Just want to go back to the interest rate disclosures that Gary gave at the top of the call.
Could you just cover again what the rate increase is going to be in your Life book? Well first of all and then I have a follow up.
Well what I mentioned was is that for the American Income Life policies and our juvenile policies we’re going to raise the premiums on newly issued policies by 5%.
Randy I’ll just even – a year ago we were talking and we talked about the impact of lower interest rate crediting on the profitability of our Life businesses.
And we said 100 basis point reduction in our interest rate crediting had about 1% to 3% – it would take 1% to 3% increase on our rates to offset that.
We did lower this year in 2011 our interest rate crediting on new business from like 6.75% down to 5.75% but we did not adjust our rates.
Well if the interest rates continue to decline the way most people think they will we’re just trying to get ahead of the game.
And assuming that we may have to lower our interest rate crediting again next year we are going ahead in January 1 we will have rate increases in effect roughly 5% of both American Income and some of the products in Direct Response.
Okay.
And so the elasticity of pricing though is – I mean you have fair amount of ability to change price on these target markets right? Yes.
I mean AI is a very strong controlled distribution.
That’s a sold product.
I mean so do you have much competition you think about and how they’re changing pricing or do you just think about what’s best for Torchmark? We think mostly about what’s – more so on the Direct Response.
We do rate testing and determine optimum pricing levels.
But for the most part we price our products to achieve desired profitability.
American Income is not in a highly competitive marketplace.
We have looked in the past and it’s only been a handful of policies a month that are replaced by another company.
It’s really not an issue at American Income.
So I feel confident that it won’t have any negative impact.
We raised rates slightly back I guess it was 1999 and it had no impact on sales there.
In fact actually the next three years sales doubled.
That’s helpful.
So I mean the takeaway here is that it’s the liability offset to the lower yields that we all model and so that keeps the margin.
And then just really quick if I could because I just didn’t get followed up on.
But Gary on your interest rate scenario I guess I just wanted to confirm that the takeaway there was a spread on underwriting.
Is there a way to communicate your scenario just on kind of how much base how many basis points the overall yield on the portfolio would lose in that scenario? Well that’s what – I think I mentioned it.
And maybe we’re talking about the same thing and I misunderstood it.
What I was saying currently portfolio is at 653 and what I was saying is we invest at 4.75.
All the cash flow each year for the next five years.
Five years yeah.
That’s 653 declines to depending on different scenarios but a decline to 595 basis points to 610 basis points...
At the end of the five-year period.
At the end of the five-year period that’s what the portfolio yield would be.
Okay.
And so in that scenario that your overall portfolio would lose 35 basis points? Yeah 35 to 50 somewhere in that range Right.
Point to point over the five years or each year? No at the end of five years.
Yeah at the end of five years.
Let’s just say that in between it’s gone from 6.53% to 6%.
At the end of the fifth year the portfolio yield would be 6%.
Okay.
We would lose 50 basis points but we’d lose that over a five-year period.
So 10 a year? Yeah.
And that would be step function down? That would be a linear kind of boost of 10 each year as your model ended up? It wouldn’t be 10 exactly but it would be something...
Yeah.
...that’s around there.
No that’s helpful.
Thanks for the clarification.
Sure.
Yeah The next question comes from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
It’s actually Jack Sherck in for Mark.
I may have disconnected I had hopped off for a second.
But what I was wondering about was the increase in the response rate to 43% on the inserts were over 16% last quarter I know you revamped your strategy there and the actual insert itself.
When does that go into play and do you attribute that to anything else or just a better marketing or a better advertising fee? Well we really rolled out with that in the second quarter.
And even though we saw improvement in our initial response rates in the insert media which is why we increased our circulation in the third and fourth quarters as a result of the improvements we saw in the second quarter.
And I do attribute it.
It’s significantly – it’s a rather large change in the packaging in those inserts and that’s what has caused that increase.
So...
It’s about a 17% improvement in the response rate.
Right.
So in your view it’s more of the marketing piece itself rather than the change in the environment.
Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
First of all good luck tonight and hope you guys pop some champagne.
We’re planning on it.
Are you heading there to St.
Louis or are you just going to watch it live? Well I might go up for game seven if it goes seven.
Yes.
Good luck.
I’m (inaudible).
I’m with you.
Tax rate came down a little bit (inaudible).
Is the full nine-month rate a good sort of run rate? You had talked before about some tax things that you were doing.
So I was wondering if could expand on that.
Bob the main reason of tax rate that came down is we got increased tax benefits from our investment and low income housing tax credits.
And that brought the rate down to just about 32% where it had been 33.7%.
What we expect to happen is we’ll end the year at 32.7% and that should be about the rate we have in 2012.
But it’s all due to getting increased tax expenses that we were expecting of those investments.
Such a little bit of help in Mr.
Schuman’s answer for Jeff’s question for next year’s tax rate is left fielder positive going into next year.
Right.
Yeah it’s going to be about 33.7% to 32.7%.
So we’re picking up a percent there.
And I apologize you were fading out on just the cash flow dynamics of the fourth quarter.
Just to remind me your cash is $168 million at the end of the third quarter.
I think it was $166 million.
Yeah $166 million.
And what dividends are you getting? We’re only getting the addition to the cash flow for the quarter will be $6 million.
So that would give us $172 million available.
But we’ve already spent $14 million.
Right I got that.
And you said you could take that to $50 million? Yeah (inaudible) cushion.
Right.
Okay.
That’s it.
Thank you.
Okay Bob.
Our next question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
John? John your line is open.
Please go ahead John.
I think we lost him.
(Operator Instructions) It looks like we have a follow up from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
No.
It has been answered.
I didn’t know how to turn it off.
Okay.
At this time we have no further questions.
Okay.
Well I want to thank everyone for joining us today and we will talk to you again next quarter.
Have a great day.
This does conclude your teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to Torchmark Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mark McAndrew Chairman and CEO of Torchmark Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning is Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer; Larry Hutchison our General Counsel; and Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2010 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter was $128 million or $1.25 per share.
A per share increase of 12% from a year ago.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $126 million or $1.23 per share a 4% decline on a per share basis.
For the full year operating income per share grew 10% to $4.68 while net income per share increased 12% to $4.72.
Excluding FAS 115 on return on equity 14.2% for the quarter and our book value per share was $35.59 a 9% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities carried at market value book value grew 25% for the year to $41.54 per share.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue excluding United Investors grew 4% to $432 million and life underwriting margins increased 6% to $121 million.
Net life sales for the quarter increased 5% to $81 million.
At American Income life premiums were up 9% to $157 million and life underwriting margin was up 5% to $51 million.
Net life sales increased 11% for the quarter to $37 million.
The producing agent count at year-end was 4381 up 12% from a year ago.
I continue to be excited by the growth prospects of American Income.
While the agent count dipped slightly in the fourth quarter it has rebounded strongly in January to over 4600.
Our middle sales management ranks have grown 29% in the past year.
As expected we saw double digit life sales growth in the fourth quarter which we expect to continue throughout 2012.
In our Direct Response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 6% to $146 million and life underwriting margin was also up 6% to $36 million.
Net life sales were up 8% to $33 million.
We are beginning to see the impact on the increase in certain media circulation which we began in the third quarter.
We expect to see similar or better sales growth through at least the first three quarter of 2012.
At Liberty National life premiums declined 3% to $71 million and life underwriting margin was down 1% to $16 million.
Net life sales declined 23% to $8 million while net health sales grew 43% to $5 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National at year-end was 1345 down 33% for the year.
Since our last call we have made some management changes at Liberty National.
Roger Smith the CEO of American Income has also been appointed CEO of Liberty National and Steve DiChiaro a very successful SGA at American Income was brought in as Chief Marketing Officer.
These management changes have been very well received by the Liberty National sales force and I am optimistic that we will begin to see a turnaround at Liberty National in the next 6 to 9 months.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D declined 5% to $179 million and health underwriting margin also declined 5% to $34 million.
Health net sales grew 7% in the quarter to $21 million.
Premium revenue from Medicare Part D declined 5% to $48 million while underwriting margin was down 23% to $7 million.
Part D sales for the quarter increase to $97 million versus $14 million a year ago primarily as a result of low income subsidized enrollees which we discussed on the last call.
The volume of business form new low income subsidized enrollees who turned 65 has been a positive development.
While we expected to enroll roughly 2000 per month for January and February we have averaged closer to 6000.
We now expect to add 50 000 to 75000 additional enrollees turning 65 in 2012 versus our prior estimate of 24000.
Administrative expenses were $41 million for the quarter up 2% from a year ago and in line with our expectations.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer for his comments.
Thanks Mark.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment portfolio capital and share repurchases.
First the investment portfolio.
On our website are three schedules that provide summary information regarding our portfolio as of December 31 2011.
As indicated on these schedules invested assets are $11.4 billion including $10.9 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
There is no exposure to European sovereign debt and there are no commercial mortgage-backed securities or securities backed by subprime or Alt-A mortgages.
Of the fixed maturities $10.2 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus.
Below investment grade bonds are $701 million compared to $863 million a year ago.
The $162 million decline this year is due primarily to $140 million of dispositions and $22 million of net upgrades.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 6.4% compared to 8.3% at the end of 2010.
With a portfolio of leverage at three times the percentage of below-investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 19% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus compared to BBB plus a year ago.
We have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $964 million compared to gains of $942 million at the end of the third quarter and $108 million a year ago.
The increase in unrealized gains in the fourth quarter is due primarily to slight declines in treasury yields and credit spreads.
Regarding investment yield in the fourth quarter we invested $273 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial sectors.
We invested at an average annual effective yield of 5.22% an average rating of A minus and an average life of 28 years.
For the year we invested $1.1 billion at an average yield of 5.65% and an average rating of A minus.
For the entire portfolio the fourth quarter yield was 6.52% compared to 6.54% in the previous quarter and 6.65% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The decline in yield is due to the lower new money yields.
As of December 31 yield on the portfolio is 6.49%.
Regarding RBC as we have said before we plan to maintain our capital to level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last few years that level has been around an NASC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in the light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
Although we haven’t finalized our 2011 statutory financial statements we expect that RBC at 12/31/11 will be around the 325% target.
Now regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the fourth quarter we used $67 million to buy 1.7 million Torchmark shares.
For the year we spent $788 million to acquire 18.9 million shares or 16% of the diluted outstanding shares at the beginning of the year.
At December 31 the parent company had liquid assets of $74 million.
In addition to these assets the parents will generate additional free cash in 2012.
We define annual free cash flow as a dividend received from the subsidiaries less interest expense and less the dividends paid to our shareholders.
Assuming shareholder dividends at the current level we expect free cash flow in 2012 to be around $350 million to $360 million.
Thus including the $74 million of assets on hand we will have approximately $425 million to $435 million of cash available to the parent during the year.
To date in 2012 we have used $16 million of this cash to buy 355 000 Torchmark shares.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If marketing conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use for those funds.
Now before I turn the call back to Mark I would like to discuss the impact of the new accounting rules for DAC.
As of January 1 2012 the company will adopt ASU 2010-26 which changes the rules regarding the deferral acquisition cost.
This standard will change the timing of GAAP profits to the extent that certain expenses deferred currently will now be deferred under the new rules.
However it does not affect our overall profitability cash flows or statutory earnings.
We will elect to adopt the new rules retroactively which means that DAC will be written down to the level as if the new standard has been in place from prior periods.
Going forward the earnings impact will be the combination of the reduction in expenses deferred on newly issued policies somewhat offset by the reduced amortization of DAC resulting from the retroactive write-down.
We currently estimate that the retroactive write-down will be around 16% of the current DAC assets which will result in around a 10% reduction in GAAP equity excluding net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturities.
In addition we expect that 2012 earnings will be 1% to 2% or $0.06 to $0.08 per share lower than they would have been under the old rules.
And that ROE excluding net unrealized gains or losses will rise from the current 14% level to 15% to 16%.
These estimates were included in our guidance for 2012.
Those are my comments I will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
For 2012 we continue to expect our net operating income per share will be in a range of $5.10 to $5.40 per share.
And those are my comments for this morning.
Gwyn I will now open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Thank you good morning.
First for Mark on recruiting trends.
You mentioned that the American Income agent count recovered a bit but if you could just give us an idea on what caused the decline in the fourth quarter and your outlook for agents there? Then also at Liberty National the agent count dropped.
I think you obviously made a lot of changes in December in that business.
Should we expect another drop in the agent count there or has most of the disruption already occurred? And then lastly Gary you mentioned the $350 million to $360 million of free cash flow.
You gave numbers for cash at the holding company but I missed those so if you could just repeat those as well? Okay.
Well first off Jimmy on as far as American Income recruiting -- and I’m not sure if it was the way the holidays fell we did see a drop off the last couple of weeks of the year which caused a little dip there.
The fourth quarter is never a particularly strong recruiting quarter for us although the January and early February resulted in very strong -- recruiting is up significantly and our agent retention is improving and the middle management counts are growing.
So I feel very good about where it’s at.
Actually if I look at the agent count at the end of January we’re up 24% from where we were at the same time a year ago.
So I am very optimistic about where American Income is.
At Liberty National I think I have all the confidence in the world in Roger and Steve but realistically I think it’s going to take six months to get to recruiting and training and sales processes in place at Liberty.
I think we’ll see the declines slow but I would still expect to probably see a small decline in the first quarter and hopefully a turnaround from there.
But I really think it will be the second half of the year before we really see the results of the turnaround at Liberty.
Gary? Yeah Jimmy as I said at the beginning of the year we have $74 million of cash on hand and we’ll supplement that with cash this year additional cash of $350 million or $360 million of free cash flow.
Okay.
And most of that -- how much do you intend to -- I think you mentioned most of that you intend to use for buybacks but how much would you want to keep just as a cushion out of that amount? I think we’d probably want to keep a cushion of around $50 million maybe a little bit higher.
I think there is no specific need of whatever they were targeting.
We just feel like we should have some cushion and that number feels about right.
Jimmy the midpoint of our guidance we’re assuming that we’re going to spend about $90 million a quarter on share repurchase.
Okay.
Got you.
And then just following up on the Liberty comments.
Have you seen -- and you mentioned the agent count being up at American Income but at Liberty have you seen the agent count drop further so far this quarter? As of now it’s down about 4% from where it was at year-end.
So it’s still down a little bit from where we were at year-end.
And we will go next to Randy Binner with FBR.
Hey thanks.
Just on Liberty National appreciate the comments on the management change there but it seems like we’ve been talking about you all have been talking about things you can do there which has included I think closing offices and potentially changing product profiles and maybe compensation.
But if you could elaborate on kind of what else the new management team there might change going forward.
I’d be interested to kind of get a little bit more color on what they might expect to improve at Liberty? Well the main thing Randy is really getting more organized in our recruiting and training of new agents.
We at American Income we have systems in place where it is an ongoing every week process of here is how you recruit and every SGA that we have there is recruiting every week and the middle management team that we have there is they’re recruiting on a weekly basis.
We just need to implement similar processes at Liberty National and that really hasn’t been put in place in the past.
So it’s primarily about improving the recruiting and training processes at Liberty.
And again we’re starting with a handful of offices and then we’ll expand it from there.
But realistically it’s going to take us six to nine months I think to get all of the Liberty offices on board with those processes.
And so you don’t think that you’ll have to close -- I guess two-follows ups would be -- you don’t think you’ll have to close any more offices and I guess what I am hearing is that you think this is something that can be addressed.
It’s not a macro issue of trouble getting folks to sign up for a commission sales job gas prices or anything like that.
You really think it’s I guess you’re not going to have to close more offices and you think it’s really isolated to training or recruiting.
Now when we had Liberty managers meeting here a couple of weeks ago where we introduced Roger and Steve to them and basically I told I’m -- we’re through closing offices.
No I don’t expect the number of offices to decline further.
I think the managers that we have are enthusiastic.
We just need to show them a little better how to recruit and how to train and I have all the confidence in the world that by the end of 2012 we’ll see a turnaround there.
And we will go next to Sarah DeWitt with Barclays Capital.
Hi good morning.
How are you thinking about the growth in the health earnings longer term? Is this now a growth business for you and if not what do you view as the end game for that business? Well our emphasis is going to continue to be on the life but we are seeing some improvement in the Medicare supplement marketplace which is a market we’ve been in since the 1960s.
So it’s a business we’re very comfortable with.
And particularly we’re seeing actually on our general agency and direct response we’re actually seeing some growth in our Medicare supplement sales as well as our premiums.
I Don’t expect to see any -- we’re not anticipating major growth there but we’ll take all of that business we can get.
So I think over the next three or five years I think we’ll start to see some growth in our Medicare supplement line of business.
Liberty National most of their growth in health sales are coming from supplemental products sold through the worksite similarly to the AFLAC type products.
We’re very comfortable with those products have been selling them for a number of years and we expect to see continued growth in that marketplace.
So in those specific markets we’re very comfortable with the products that we have and I think we’ll continue to see growth in those health sales.
Okay.
Great.
And then what are your expectations for the Part D sales in 2012 based on the higher enrollment that you’re seeing? Well that is as I mentioned a positive.
Where we did pick up about 77 000 new people at beginning of the year and where we were anticipating picking up 2 000 a month.
It’s been running closer to 6 000 a month people turning 65.
And the average premium on that monthly premium is right at $100.
So you can multiply that out.
It is -- well let’s see if I’ve got it here somewhere.
We started the year I believe with $195 million of annual premium in-force.
By year-end we expect that to be about $328 million of in-force.
I think we expect to have about a little over $300 million of collected premium for the year.
And we will go next to Paul Sarran with Evercore Partners.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
I guess first given the decline at Liberty can you talk about whether it still makes sense to run it as a separate company apart from American Income? Second I was hoping that you could help us reconcile some capital figures from the third quarter to year-end.
I think there was $166 million of capital at the holdco at the third quarter.
I was hoping you could walk us through how you get down to $74 million.
And then just lastly do you still see buybacks as the most likely use for your free cash flow this year or is there anything on the acquisition front you might be interested in? Okay I’ll take the first one.
As far as Liberty it does still make sense to operate as a separate company.
American Income there are enough differences between the two that it would be very difficult to merge the two.
American Income agents are all unionized.
They are all union members which is a niche that we like but and it still comes down to even though all new agents that we’re hiring at Liberty National are independent contractors the existing agents and management continue to be employees which would not work well in the American Income environment.
Liberty National has a good name in its market and we believe it can grow on its own.
So we intend to continue to operate it as a separate entity.
Gary you want to talk about the capital? Sure yeah Paul we started the quarter with $166 million.
The free cash for just the fourth quarter and again that’s dividend less the interest expense and our dividend payments for the shareholders was $13 million.
That gets you to $179 million.
From that we used $68 million for share repurchases and we also used $25 000 to make a capital contribution to one of our insurance subsidiaries.
And then that leaves another $12 million that was a net of several different parent company expenses.
But if you net all those down you get down to the $74 million.
Okay.
And was there anything specific that prompted the contribution to the insurance company? Well the primary reason for that is there was a -- the NAIC changed the way it treats some trust preferred or hybrid securities.
And depending on the level of the purchase price versus the par value there they raised the capital requirements for those particular bonds and so that was unexpected that was adopted during the year.
And so this additional $25 million is put down there just to make sure that we stayed around our 325% target.
Okay.
And then the question on buybacks or use of free cash flow? Paul overall as far as the acquisition front we continue to keep our eyes open.
We continue to talk to investment bankers.
But right now still don’t see anything on the short-term horizon that we’re interested in.
As far as buybacks versus dividends we’ve been gradually increasing our dividends last few years.
We’re still -- we’re at a lower yield than our peers.
We may see some acceleration in the dividends but again what we’ve been doing if you look at our free cash including money spent for dividends we’re running about $400 million to $410 million a year.
We’ve been using about $50 million for dividends.
We may see that go up a little bit but we still expect the bulk of it to be used for share repurchase.
And we will go next to Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about lapse rates and conservation.
If I look at your life insurance lapse rate exhibit that you publish I mean the lapse rates do move around from quarter to quarter.
They are impacted by the mix of first year and renewal but on the surface it certainly looks like the lapse rates are trending better.
Do you think that’s a real trend and is it related to the conservation efforts or how do you see that? Well I definitely think it’s a real trend particularly at American Income which again that’s where we focused our initial efforts.
We’re seeing some positive trend.
In fact I didn’t really mention it in my comments but our new initiatives this year on conservation we conserved just over $12 million of annualized premium.
Now about half of that was at American Income.
Next year we expect those initiatives conserve over $31 million of premium is our estimate right now.
So we’re starting to see some impact and that’s a reason we started publishing that exhibit but I think we’ll see more of an impact over the next 12 to 24 months as we continue to expand those conservation initiatives.
And we will go next to Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
I guess one of the things I was surprised by was the increase in the discount rate albeit modestly.
Just curious kind of what’s driving the increase there given the continued decline in the effective portfolio yield? Chris it’s really due to the mix of business.
You’ll remember that most of our life business is protection type business.
So not accrediting interest to policyholder accounts the discount rate is truly a discount rate used to calculate the reserves.
And for policies issued in 2011 we did drop the discount rate to 5.75% which in prior years have been leaning closer to 6.5%.
But the 2011 issues we’re having this is a small impact when you look at the overall block of business that we have.
And so the increase is coming from the fact that they have more of the business at those higher rates for the few years prior to 2011.
But I think the right way is it’s not going to go up much from here and in the long run it will start trending down.
Actually Chris as far as new business written in 2012 as Gary mentioned we did lower the discount rate for business issued in 2011.
We expect to lower that some more for the business written in 2012 although we will shed more light on that on the next call.
Okay.
And are you thinking I mean because your effective kind of new money yield here in quarter was 5.2% so should we be thinking about sort of an adjustment to the discount rate down somewhere closer to that level? Well actually it could be a little bit lower.
I think in the last call we gave some assumptions what would happen over the next five years if we invested at 4.75%.
And we also talked about maybe dropping the discount rate to 4.75% on 2012 issues.
As Mark said we’ll decide on that in the first quarter but I think it will be lower in the 5.22% and it may be lower than 5%.
But Chris you need to understand that that’s only on new business issued.
Right.
Okay.
And in again the midpoint of our guidance we’ve assumed that we were going to lower it to 4.75 graded up to 6.5 over seven years is what we’ve included in our guidance.
Doesn’t mean that’s what we’re going to use but that is what we’ve estimated on our guidance.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just finally in terms of new money you’re lowering the ratings extending durations to try and protect the yields but just curious to see if you’re exploring any additional sort of investment strategies to help preserve yields.
Whether it’s mortgage loans or alternative asset classes or you are going to kind of continue the same strategy you have been doing? Well first of all we are not extending durations.
We’ve been investing in these durations for quite a few years and it all gets back to asset liability matching.
Our liabilities are very long.
Now also in terms of quality we haven’t stepped down in quality.
We have been at A minus level for new purchases for quite some time.
I think there was one quarter we went down to BBB plus.
But we really haven’t changed anything.
We’re being consistent with our investment strategy in the past.
We look at alternative assets but we have stayed away from mortgage loans as I mentioned in the beginning stayed away from all -- whether it’s residential or commercial or whatever.
And I think we feel more comfortable with investment grade corporate bonds and we don’t like the lower yields but we feel better with the credit of those assets the credit quality and I think that’s what we’re going to stay with.
Right.
And also Chris as mentioned on the last call we can adjust to lower interest rates.
We did put through some rate increases January 1 in both Direct Response and American Income to offset the lower investment yield.
We feel very comfortable with our investment strategy.
We feel like it served us very well for a number of years now and we expect to continue to that.
And we will go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Hey good morning everybody.
I got three here mostly some follow-ups I think.
Just to follow-up on Chris’ question with regards to discount rate.
Mark or Gary could you remind us if you were to lower the discount rate to 4.75% what would that do to your pricing? Well again we did a study about a year ago.
100 basis points decline -- to reduce it 100 basis points caused us to it would be 1% to 3% in most of our products.
Would take 1% to 3% rate adjustment to offset 100 basis points lowering of discount rate.
We put through about 5% increase at both American Income and some of the direct response products January 1.
So we feel like we’re ahead of that game.
Okay.
Great.
And then Genworth in their conference call mentioned and issue with regards to GAAP accounting and level term life insurance I think that’s a product that you guys provide.
Are you aware of this of have any thoughts on it? You want to take that Gary? I am really not aware.
Can you give more detail? Yeah as far as I understand it has to do with the idea that a product conversion when the level term runs out the pricing is significantly higher which could lead to a situation where reserves go negative on these policies.
Genworth had historically used the reserves as a negative and has decided to put a floor in the reserves to zero so they can’t have negative reserves? Gary?  Yeah I’m sorry Steven.
I really don’t have an answer for that.
Well I’ll point out Steven actually if you look at our business most of our business is whole life.
At American Income Liberty National most of it’s whole life even in the direct response.
We showed some term business in direct response but it’s termed to 100 or termed to 95.
They are very long-term policies that we really don’t see conversions.
Okay great.
So it’s really not been an issue with us.
Okay and then one more if I could.
With regards to LNL and beating that dead horse.
I am fascinated by the trends within the new recruits and the veteran agents.
Veteran agents being up new recruits being down.
On the new recruit side is this a function of -- you’ve said in the past Mark LNL was a place you went to work when you were looking for work.
I remember that comment.
Has that really changed and is that what’s driving the new recruits down and then what’s leading to the veterans up? Well there’s no doubt closing as many offices as we did.
Again we went from a 130 offices down to 70 in a little over a year.
And part of the reason for that was just to get the expenses in line and get the profitability of the business up where it needs to be.
So that had a big impact on recruiting.
When you go from 130 managers down to 70 it’s going to impact the number of new agents we recruit.
As far as in fact I am looking at that number I don’t really have an answer Steven for why that went from 552 to 648 on the veteran agents.
I’ll look into it and I can have Mike get back to you on that.
Okay.
Great.
And one more follow up if I could on this.
You mentioned not closing anymore offices.
I think you’ve discussed in the past that you could lose maybe a third of the officers due to the changes that you made.
Do you think that’s still an accurate assessment? No I don’t think it is anymore.
We’ve had -- since the last call we’ve actually had two meetings one prior to the management -- well one about the time of the last call.
We had another meeting and the attitudes there are extremely good.
The last meeting we had was the most positive meeting that I can ever recall having at Liberty.
So I don’t -- we might lose a handful of managers but I think we have people to replace them.
So we don’t anticipate closing off or I don’t think we’ll lose a third of the managers now.
And we will go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning everybody.
I was just thinking about and maybe Gary’s commentary about the trust preferreds brought me back to it.
Just thinking about the -- you guys had relatively large holdings in regional bank trust preferreds on the balance sheet.
I think as we watch over the past several months at least.
We’ve been seeing more and more activity where these banks are redeeming these trust preferreds.
I’m wondering if you’ve seen or if you expect to see some of that type of activity with your holdings and what kind of reinvestment risk that might put you under to the extent you guys take proceeds and reinvest it 5.22% or lower? John I think we’ve only seen a couple issues called and they were smaller ones.
But we do have just under $750 million of bank trust preferreds hybrids that would -- that are contingent calls.
And we expect a large number of those to be called but up until recently with the expectation that those calls would occur in 2013.
But as you mentioned there is talk that some of the banks are instead avoiding for the change and that was tied to the change in the Tier 1 capital rules but now there is some indications that some banks will say well when these rules are issued in 2012 that will be the triggering event that’ll allow them to call the securities.
So we really don’t know how that’s going to work out whether there will be sizable amount in 2012 or it will be 2013.
You’re right it will have an impact on our yield.
The yields on those are just little over 7%.
And if we refinance or reinvest at 4.75% it would be a significant change to the yield.
In the last call we talked about if we invested in rates at 4.75% for the next five years what would happen to the portfolio yield and I think what we said at five years from now and so yield of 6.49% as it does today the portfolio would be yielding 6%.
Well in that in those projections we assume that these trust preferreds would be called and that the money would be reinvested at 4.75%.
So that projection is still good the question is though if it will some of them happen in 2012 and we just don’t know.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just at the margin too would you expect particularly after the injection of the capital under the rule change would you expect that all else equal if you’re investing like you are today at roughly A minus that the risk-based capital requirements when you make that shift out of TruPS into higher grade corporate do you expect the required capital to fall a bit? Yes it should because as I mentioned earlier they have increased the capital charges on those trust preferreds.
So I don’t know how much the impact but that would -- well it would have a fairly significant impact on the capital.
So that will be a plus.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I joined a little bit late and I am sorry if I missed this maybe you addressed it but obviously the Medicare Part D sales were extremely strong.
Could you just give us could you just remind us how to think about the pattern of the earned premium? Okay.
Sure John.
Again we picked up -- well first off the average monthly premium we get premiums monthly is right at $100 $98.86 on these auto-enrollees.
We picked up 77 000 of those at the beginning of the year January 1.
Actually -- and we had anticipated picking up an additional 2 000 people turning 65 each month but through the first couple of months that has actually run close through the 6 000 a month.
So we now expect to pick up somewhere in the 50 000 to 75 000 additional enrollees turning 65 and again the monthly premium is right at $100.
So you can -- I did make the comment that if I look at total revenue we had $197 million I think in 2011.
We expect that to go to our current estimate and our guidance is $306 million.
I think maybe a little higher than that.
Okay.
And I recall in the press release no expectation of any meaningful change in your margin on that premium? No we expect to continue roughly the same margin we had this year.
(Operator Instructions) We will go next to Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
So just following the math on John’s question which was 75% (margin).
It means the 29 million of Medicare earnings will grow into the 40s that will be a pretty good source of earnings growth.
When you get into this Part D I think originally you guys said that this would be a good base of earnings with a good return on capital that would sort of grade down.
Now it looks like it actually could be a source of earnings growth prospectively? Well definitely for 2012 it is Bob and it’s something we are already looking at what can we do for 2013 to not only hold on to what we have but hopefully increase the volume of auto enrollees that we receive.
So if we can -- assuming we can at least hold on to the 21 regions that we’re getting auto-enrollees it would become a significant area of growth for us.
Okay.
I was wondering -- is Roger Smith on the call is available for questions or no? No he’s not.
Okay.
We might consider that in future quarters.
Well I was going to say now that he is running two key business units he’s obviously quite busy.
Yes he is.
I can understand that.
He’s got things to work on now but it’ll be good for us to get some -- or him to have some visibility to investors so we could see what he’s focusing on how he compares and contrasts Liberty to American Income.
Because they are two different markets that you’re applying sort of the same mousetrap of recruiting to.
So I was just wondering what nuances he is picking up and focusing on and where the opportunity is.
But it sounds like your answer for him is blocking and tackling and recruiting.
That’s basically right Bob.
They have become much more similar than what they were a year ago two years ago five years ago.
And the basics of recruiting and training agents in markets are very similar.
But I will think about your comment and at least try to get him on maybe one call here of the next two I’ll try to have him on.
And we will go next to Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Thank you.
Refresh me on what drives the sustainability on that very good pace of 6000 per month? What could make that go higher or lower? You mentioned you’re getting the 21 regions with the auto-enrollees.
How do you pick up more share there? Well again I think there is 34 total regions.
I think we’re getting the auto-enrollees in 21 of the 34.
So there is obviously 13 that we’re not.
So we’re looking there.
Any place that our plan is below the median cost in that region then we pick a portion of the low income subsidized.
So that is something we’re looking at or other ways that we can continue to shape a few dollars off of our premium to keep it below the median or actually get it below the median in some of the markets that we’re not in.
So we’re continuing to look at ways to be a little more price competitive.
Okay.
And how about outlook in 2012 for insert volume on the direct front marketing activity.
Any interesting plans for the next few quarters? Well we significantly increased the volumes in second half of 2011 which we’re starting to see the results of.
Right now at least for the first two quarters of 2012 we’re just anticipating the circulation to increase 7% to 8% above a year ago.
That could change as we go through the year but right now that’s our current anticipation of the volume for the first half.
And there are no other questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Well those are our comments for today.
Thank you for joining us.
I hope you have a great day.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Please note that this call is being recorded and is also being simultaneously webcast.
At this time I will turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Mark McAndrew.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning is Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer; Larry Hutchison our General Counsel; and Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2010 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Net operating income for the first quarter was $128 million or $1.27 per share a per share increase of 22% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $119 million or $1.17 per share a 39% increase on a per share basis.
Excluding FAS 115 our return on equity was 15.8% for the quarter and our book value per share was $32.70 a 9% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturity carried at market value book value per share grew 24% to $38.19.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 5% to $452 million and life underwriting margins increased 13% to $126 million.
Net life sales increased 9% to $88 million.
At American Income life premiums were up 10% to $161 million and life underwriting margin was up 16% to $52 million.
Net life sales increased 17% for the quarter to $39 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the first quarter was 5 104 up 26% from a year ago and up 17% during the quarter.
The first quarter results at American Income far exceeded our expectations.
The number of newly hired agents that produced business in the first quarter was up 52% from a year ago.
The number of newly hired agents who achieved our top bonus level which is our best indicator of agent retention was up 76% in the quarter.
Our middle management ranks grew by 12% in the quarter and are up 29% from a year ago.
Every key factor indicates that 2012 is a stellar year for American Income.
In our direct response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 6% to $161 million and life underwriting margin grew 10% to $38 million.
Net life sales were up 9% to $39 million.
I am pleased with the results in direct response.
While high gas prices and difficult economy continued to impact our response rates through continuing innovation we've been able to grow our sales and maintain our margins.
I would also remind everyone of the change we made in our direct response underwriting in mid-2011.
While improving our margins it resulted in a 6% reduction in our net sales due to more applications being rejected for health reasons.
Life premium at Liberty National declined 2% to $72 million while life underwriting margin was up 21% to $18 million.
Net life sales declined 22% to $7 million while net health sales grew 16% to $3 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 276 down 31% from a year ago and down 5% for the quarter.
The underwriting margins at Liberty National had benefitted from the change in DAC accounting due to the significant reductions we have implemented in our non-deferrable acquisition cost over the last couple of years.
I'm also very pleased with the progress being made in turning around our declines in producing agents and sales.
In mid-February the agent count at Liberty National hit its low point of 1 228.
Since that time we have seen consistent growth and as of Monday the producing agent count has grown to 1 321 which is up 7.5% in the past two months.
I'm very optimistic that this agent growth will continue going forward which will result in improved sales at Liberty National for the balance of this year.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D declined 6% to $181 million and health underwriting margin declined 10% to $40 million.
Health net sales grew 5% to $15 million.
Premium revenue from Medicare Part D grew 50% to $74 million while the underwriting margin increased 54% to $8 million.
Part D sales for the quarter jumped 235% to $25 million.
The new low income subsidized enroll leads continue to exceed our prior estimates and we have raised our Part D revenue estimates for 2012 to $319 million versus $197 million for 2011.
Administrative expenses were $41 million for the quarter which were up 8% from a year ago but in line with our expectations.
Roughly half of this increase was caused by the elimination of the administrative fee which we were receiving on the United Investors business.
The balance of the increase was due to increased cost in our Part D administration and conservation program.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman for his comments.
Thanks Mark.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment portfolio capital and share repurchases.
First the investment portfolio.
On our website are three schedules provide summary information regarding our portfolio as of March 31 2012.
As indicated on these schedules invested assets were $11.6 billion including $11.1 billion of fixed maturities and amortized cost.
There is no exposure to the European sovereign debt and there are no commercial mortgage backed securities or securities backed by subprime or Alt A mortgages.
Of the fixed maturities $10.4 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A minus.
Below investment grade bonds are $723 million compared to $758 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 6.5% compared to 7.2% a year ago and with the portfolio leverage of three times the percentage of big bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 22% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus compared to BBB plus a year ago.
We had net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio $873 million compared to $156 million a year ago.
Regarding investment yield in the first quarter we invested $232 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the utility and industrial sectors.
We invested at an average annual effective yield of 4.76% an average rating of A minus and an average life of 30 years.
The new money yield of 4.76% has declined from the 5.65% yield for all of 2011 and the 5.22% yield in the fourth quarter.
For this reason we have lowered the GAAP discount rate used to calculate the reserves and DAC for policies issued in 2012 to 4.75% graded to 6.5% over seven years.
For the entire portfolio the first quarter yield was 6.47% compared to 6.52% in the previous quarter and 6.62% in the first quarter of 2011.
The continued decline in the yield is due to the lower new money yields.
As of March 31 the yield on the portfolio is 6.46%.
Now turning to RBC we plan to maintain our capital at a level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio was lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
At December 31 consolidated RBC was 336% and adjusted capital was approximately $46 million in excess of that required for the targeted 325% ratio.
Regarding share repurchases and parent company assets in the first quarter we spent $90 million to buy 1.9 million Torchmark shares.
So far in April we have used $36 million to buy another 750 000 shares.
So for the full through today we have spent a $126 million of parent company cash to acquire 2.6 million shares.
The available liquid assets at the parent company consist of assets on hand and the expected free cash flow from operations as we've said before free cash flow results from the dividends received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the interest paid on the debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
Assuming shareholders dividends at the current level we expect to generate approximately $347 million of free cash flow for the entire year.
This is less than the $350 million to $360 million projected in the previous call because we increased the dividend rate on Torchmark stock.
Effective with the dividend paid in the second quarter the dividend rate increased from $0.12 to $0.15 a share which will result in 2012 dividends of approximately $56 million $8 million more than they would have been.
In spite of the dividend increase the 2012 free cash flow plus the $74 million of cash on-hand at the beginning of the year will provide a total of $421 million of available cash for the full year.
As of today after deducting the $126 million of year-to-date share repurchases the parent will have approximately $295 million available between now and the end of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
Now before I turn the call back to Mark I would like to discuss the impact of the new accounting rules for DAC.
On January 1st the Company adopted ASU 2010-26 which changed the rules regarding the deferral of acquisition cost.
This standard changes the timing of GAAP profits to the extent that certain expenses deferred under the previous rules will no longer be deferred.
However it does not affect our overall profitability cash flows or statutory earnings.
We adopted the new rule retrospectively which means that DAC was written down to a level as if the new student had been in place in prior periods.
The earnings impact of the new rule is a combination of the reduction in expenses deferred on newly issued policies somewhat offset by the reduced amortization of DAC resulting from the retroactive write-down.
The financial statement impact of the new rules is consistent with the estimates that we discussed on the last call.
First compared to the comparable balances at March 31 2011 the retroactive write-down was 16% of the DAC asset resulting in a 10% reduction in GAAP equity excluding the net unrealized gains on fixed maturities.
In addition the earnings for the first quarter of 2012 were 1.2% or $0.016 per share lower than they would have been under the old rules and ROE excluding net unrealized gains was 15.8% compared to 14.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011 under the old rules.
All prior periods on the net operating summary and the balance sheet had been restated to reflect the retroactive adoption of ASU 2010-26.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
For 2012 we continue to expect our net operating income per share will be in a range of $5.10 and $5.40 per share.
Before I open it up for questions I would like to comment on the upcoming transition.
I'm the fourth CEO in the 32 year history of Torchmark and every succession has been seamless.
I want to assure everyone that this succession will also go very smoothly.
While I am stepping down as CEO on June 1 I will continue in an executive position as Chairman until June of 2013.
I have the utmost confidence in both Larry and Gary and have worked closely with both of them for over 25 years.
I believe that either one of them would be an outstanding CEO on their own but I also believe that together they will be better than either would be individually.
I believe that the company is in the best shape it has been during my tenure as CEO and I know that Gary and Larry will only continue to make it better.
Those are my comments for this morning.
I will now open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will first go to the side of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
I had a couple of questions.
First Mark maybe you can discuss the rationale for the Co-CEO structure and then once you are not the Chairman should we expect the CEO and Chairman role to be with one person or would it be split? And then on the business just at Liberty National the margins has actually been steadily improving they were 24.5% I think this quarter 22.9% first quarter last year.
It seems like expense levels have declined but what’s your expectation for margins there?  Okay and again you have to understand that Gary Larry and I really have worked very closely together our entire careers.
Even when I have been CEO the three of us have really consulted on every significant decision made in this company and we always reach consensus and I do believe this is one of those cases that the two of them together because they do have very complementary skill sets will be better than either one would be individually.
So I feel very comfortable in this particular situation with these two individuals it’s the best thing for Torchmark and it makes the most sense in this situation.
As far as Liberty National yes the margins have improved.
I would expect they will stay at about the same level at least for the balance of this year Jimmy somewhere in that 24% to 25% range.
That’s what we have assumed in our guidance.
And then just comments on the Chairman and CEO? Well again I am going to stay on at least through June 13.
In fact I will intend to at least finish out my term which will be April 14.
Beyond that it really hasn’t been decided at this point.
So that’s something that we will continue to discuss.
Next we will go to the site of Christopher Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
I guess a question just for Gary.
When you made the comment about lowering the discount rate to 4.75% and then grading it up to 6.5% over seven years if you have kind of decided to keep it at 4.75% what impact would that have as we think about the balance sheet or the income statement? These slightly higher reserves than say if were I think at 5.75% for 2011 issues but I think the more of the impact you would see on the financial statements if we kept this over time right now the weighted average discount rate is right around 5.6%.
If we kept we used a 4.75% for succeeding years you would see that rate come down.
But remember this just applies to 2012 issues so it takes a while for that rate to come down but if you continue at 4.75% for several years at some point it would start moving from the 6.6% down toward the 4.75%.
Chris I'll also point out too that when we analyzed before for example American Income if we lowered 100 basis points our interest rate assumptions and kept them 100 basis points lower throughout the life of the business it would take a 2% to 3% rate adjustment to maintain our profitability.
And again we did put through January 1 of this year a 5% rate increase at American Income as well as most of the products at Globe Life.
So while it will have a negative impact on our excess investment income that will also be offset by higher underwriting margins going forward as a result of the rate increases.
Okay that's where I was going to next.
So at this point there is not a real need to adjust pricing any further.
You kind of got what you needed you think currently in American Income? No.
Even if we had to go to 4.75% and maintain that the rate adjustments we put through are more than adequate to maintain our profitability.
In terms of the low investment grade.
I guess the NAIC Class 3 and 4 buckets looked like they increased a bit sort of sequentially here.
Can you talk a little bit about what drove that? Well most of that occurred in the bank converts that we have and I believe as Moody's downgrade us by one notch which would not have pushed them into the below investment grade category normally but under the new rules that were passed last year regarding the hybrid type securities that one notch downgrade under those new rules moved them into a class that goes into the SVO class for low investment grade bonds.
It's a little bit of an unusual item but the quality of those bonds are not impaired in any measure.
As a matter of fact just on a normal basis just on a standard grading they are not below investment grade bonds they just are as SVO classifies them.
I didn't know if Gary or Larry could comment at all; it might be a bit premature but a little bit in terms of some strategy vision if they think there will be any kind of material changes whether it's the operating businesses or are we thinking about capital deployment? I'll take the first part of that Gary and then I'll let you.
I think the only position in the Company that has a mandatory retirement age today is the CEO which currently is set at 65 but that always through Board action could be adjusted going forward.
But right now there is a mandatory retirement for the CEO at 65.
Gary? I don't look for any major changes in our business model.
Larry and I have been involved in this Company for many years as Mark said and we care firm believers in the model.
I think there will be changes as our insurance markets change and also as the financial markets change we will adjust them as we have over the years.
So I think there'll be changes but I don't think you will see major changes in the fundamentals of how we operate the business.
Like what Gary said I agree with that.
Our immediate focus is to have a seamless transition and to continue the type of growth we have experienced in 2011 and 2012.
We will go to the site of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
A couple of quick ones.
I'm just curious about I know that we just talked about discount rates and I'm just curious.
I saw on the release that the discount rate on the net policy liability is in the excess investment income segment were actually up year-over-year.
I guess I'm just curious just given what rates have done why up and not down? Well John you have to remember that it is truly a discount rate.
We are not setting rates or crediting interest to policy order fronts.
This is simply the discount rate we used to calculate the reserves with DAC.
And although we’ve lowered the discount rate used last year you got to remember that discount rate that we set each year applies only to policies issued in that year.
So at 4.75% now in 2012 issues over 90% of our reserves are for policies issued prior to 2011 and during that period of time part we were using a discount rate somewhere at times 6% and at times it’s high as 7% so between the 6% and 7%.
So when you rate all those issue years together that’s where you get to a little under 6% and over time I think actually you will see that rate go up just slightly and it is going to level off and then as I mentioned earlier if we continue at 4.75% in several years from now you will see that trending down toward the 4.75%.
Right now it is just the weighted average rate because of all of the many years of issue that we have out there is higher than what we are for the current year issues.
And so to Mark’s point earlier in response to Chris pricing actions that you have taken we should essentially see a shift in the profitability to more underwriting earnings and maybe excess investment income is a modest offset to that? Over the long term John that’s true.
It’s not the fact that we are not going to have a spread.
We are still going to have spread over what we are earning on the assets over what that discount is on; it’s just going to be little bit smaller than it has been in the past.
Understood.
And then just another quick one on excess investment income.
I noticed the invested assets dropped about $300 million at the end of 1Q versus the end of 2011 so quarter-over-quarter.
I was sort of surprised to see a drop at that level.
Could you explain what happened there and then maybe an outlook for the remainder of the year? I assume it grows from here.
I don’t have a good answer for that at the moment but our projection is that it will grow around the 4% range for the year.
And then lastly I know Mark you updated us on Medicare Part D on the revenues for the year.
Obviously things going better than you originally expected a few months ago.
What's your outlook for sales there for the remainder of the year? Obviously we're through the biggest part of the seasonal sales cycle.
Well again we picked up a large number on January 1 but what's really exceeding our expectations is the number of new enrollees that we're getting each month from either people just turning 65 or people just qualifying for the low income subsidy and that number we have been averaging about 6 800 a month where initially we were only assuming 2 000 to 3 000 of those new people each month.
So we now expect to pick up over 75 000 during the course of the year and that will be pretty smooth through the year.
So if you look at the first quarter sales numbers we expect the ongoing sales to stay up at about that level.
John I might add if you look at the assets with the picks at market value one thing the unrealized gains or losses as I mentioned earlier were at $873 million that were $964 million at the end of December 31.
So we had a $90 million drop just from that.
but I'll follow up with you offline.
Could you update us on your outlook for sales in American Income and Direct based on the better than expected first quarter results? And then also given your positive comments on Liberty when do you think sales in that business could turn positive? In our guidance there is probably still a little conservatism built in there.
At American Income we're assuming 14% to 15% growth in our sales this year which again we were at 17% in the first quarter.
So I think there is a good chance that we will beat what we've built in our guidance.
At Globe I think there also in our guidance we're just assuming mid to high single-digit growth in sales there.
There is still some uncertainty there.
So I don't think we've being overly optimistic but as far as Liberty National again I think we'll see sequential growth going forward but if I look back at last year I feel confident that we'll have grown by the fourth quarter and sales year-over-year I would expect the third quarter will be close to flat but if I look a year from now when we're comparing to the first quarter this year I expect to see strong double-digit growth in sales a year from now at Liberty.
Okay great and then just on Globe I think you had said partway through the first quarter you were seeing introductory offers of about 30% year-over-year.
Is that still the case? Well I think first quarter; it's running a little over 20% the number of new enquiries coming in versus a year ago.
So that is still going well but again that's why I mentioned we're starting with the 6% reduction just from the change in our underwriting.
So if I look at the 9% growth we had in first quarter without that change in underwriting would have been more like 15% growth.
So that tampers it somewhat when we're comparing year-over-year.
But I'm still very pleased with where it's at and particularly if gas prices come down and the economy continues to improve we may significantly beat that but at this point; we don't want to be overly optimistic in our projections.
Okay great and then just finally on the CEO transition given your mandatory retirement age and I believe Gary and Larry are about the same age as you should we consider this a long-term leadership structure? Well Gary is actually older than me but Larry you are what 58? 58.
So Gary is 59.
Right.
So for the last six seven years before they hit the current mandatory retirement age.
That mandatory retirement age can easily be extended through the Board action.
So Gary Larry I’ll let you put your two cents worth in.
Well certainly my concern is in the interim move Gary and I committed to the company now that to be here at least for the next seven eight years Gary? I agree to what Larry said.
This is not an interim move; this is definitely something that we are committed to.
We will next go to the site of Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Mark I heard a lot of better than expected trends particularly on the sales and Liberty National margins and a view that's up and I didn’t hear anything that’s worse than you thought it was yet you didn’t change your guidance.
Is it just too early in the year to talk about changing the range or was there something that sort of offsets all these positives you highlighted? Bob the only thing if I look at our earnings per share for the first quarter I know we missed the street by a penny but we are actually about a penny ahead of where we thought would be.
We do have a number of things that are doing better than we anticipated but the only thing Bob that offsets that is the price we paid on our share repurchase was more than – when we originally came out with that guidance the stock was at $38.
So that has tampered it somewhat it is reasonably left at where it is.
Again I expect we will narrow that range as the year particularly next quarter but right now the improved results offset the higher share price.
And it sounds like the Liberty National margins are an ongoing plus right that we should factor in? Well I think where they are at today is I think we are going to try to maintain that.
I wouldn’t expect continued upward movement in those margins.
But still year-over-year it’s going to be helped in your three more quarters and you weren’t building that into your original? We were expecting better margins.
When we did our guidance we were expecting improved margins in the life business at Liberty.
To this extent? Well not too far off.
We knew as a result of the DAC write-down that the margins at Liberty would go up as a result of the cost savings and the restructuring that we have done at Liberty.
They have moved more of those costs to variable costs.
So that was by design.
I think you are following C.B's path.
Didn’t he retire a bit early around this similar age? He retired at 60 and I became CEO and he stayed on as Chairman for a year when he turned 59.
So you are very astute Bob it’s basically exactly the same transition that we had with C.B.
Are you going to follow his path and play Blackjack tournaments too? Probably not but one never knows.
The next question comes from site of Ed Spehar with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Mark I was wondering I missed if you said something on the Medicare supplement business.
How should we think about that over the next few years and to what extent should we think about it differently if for some reason we get in a Supreme Court ruling that voids the health reform?  Well I'll talk to it and I'll also let Larry address some of that.
Right now Ed especially in the independent agency side of United American we're starting to see some growth there but again it's not going to be a major contributor to our growth.
I still hope that that continues to improve over the next two three years.
Larry you want to address the…? Ed the health reform really didn't address Medicare Supplement that was an exempted product.
We're seeing lots of proposals right now in Washington that deals everything for benefit structures to loss ratios.
Our information is there's no immediate change that restricts the Medicare systems.
Probably the earliest will be 2014.
There is a lot of uncertainty we don't know which parties are going to be control with we don't know who is going to really shape future changes of Medicare.
We know there are going to be changes of all depths of those changes and we have played in that market.
I can just say at this time it's a little early to say exactly where Medicare will be in 2014 2015 and 2016.
Mark hopefully now you'll have more opportunities to drive your car a quarter mile at the time.
The next question comes from the site of Paul Sarran with Evercore Partners.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask first about the American Income agent growth.
And I guess my question is how many new agents can you handle per middle management? The reason I ask is because you seem to be adding in a lot new agents at a lot faster rate than you're growing the middle management ranks.
I'm wondering if that becomes a limiting factor at some point.
Well I don't see it as a limiting factor.
Yes the number of new hires was up over 50% in the first quarter versus our middle management ranks were up 29% but one of the things that we were very successful in doing was the number of middle management people that we have that hired and trained a new person increased significantly from a year ago.
We did in the middle of last year put out a new incentive program to try to get more of our middle management involved in the recruiting and training and that appears to have been very successful.
But not only did we increased the number of middle managers by 29%; we also increased the percentage of those that actually recruited and trained someone.
So can we maintain 50% 60% growth? That's going to be difficult.
But can we continue to grow our middle management ranks by 30% 40% a year? Yes we can.
I don't see it as a real limiting factor.
Actually the more new people that we're hiring and bringing on those people – as our agent base gets larger the candidates that move into middle management becomes larger.
Okay.
You got a question about Liberty margins.
I wanted to ask you about American Income where margins improved somewhere around 100 to 200 basis points year-over-year and it looks like it was mainly driven by lower expenses.
How sustainable is that and is there any room to push expenses lower or is that about as large you can get it? <br>Obviously as we continue to grow we do have some fixed expenses there such as management salaries and travel that will give us some improvement in our expense margins but again at American income the vast majority of our cost there are variable cost they are commissions and those will grow as sales grows.
So I don't anticipate any major improvement in the margins there although we did put through again 5% rate increase in the beginning of this year which over time will add a little bit to the underwriting margin but we don’t anticipate it really improving from where it is but we expect to be able to maintain where it is at.
At Global you talked about 20% higher new increase and then if we offset that by the 6% impact from the new underwriting standards that still would seem to suggest mid-teen sales growth which is higher than what you're guiding to so you mentioned uncertainty what’s causing you to getting that.
You need to understand the inquiries is from our Insert Media segment which is little over half of our total sales.
The other half come from our direct mail program it's been relatively flat in comparison.
So the 22% does not pertain to all of the direct response business.
So that’s what part of the reason why I get back to mid-to-high single digits in growth.
So you said responses at the direct mail were pretty flat year-over-year? Right now our direct response sales a relatively pretty flat from a year ago.
Is that also impacted by the new underwriting? Yes it would be.
And then last question you have a $53 million at the holding company do you expect to drive down any further or is $50 million kind of where you think you will keep a buffer for the rest of the year?  I still anticipate maintaining somewhere in that $50 million.
Gary do you have any...? No I think we will be right around $50 million.
The next question comes from the site of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Gary just to make sure that I am clear here you are planning as of right now to spend the $295 million that you detailed before 21 less the $126 million spend so far? That was a variable and I am sure we will spend most of that.
Okay and then lot of questions has been asked but I do want to go back to the ACA question for Larry.
I believe Larry that there is going to be or supposedly whether it happens or not remains to be seen but a lot of money going away from the Part C program is that correct? I think that’s correct but again all this is proposed at this point.
I think we are going to have a gridlock in Congress through the remainder of the year but I think next year you will see that those proposals actually take shape and better able to predict exactly what the Medicare system is going to look like.
I have seen everything from Class A and B together to changes to see and it's just as we make proposals it's hard to sort out and say exactly what the Medicare system looks like.
We know it's going to change a little depth of those changes.
Is there anything in the I haven't see it but just to make it clear is there anything in ACA to effect Part D? I haven't seen anything with respect to Part D really the proposals are dealt with potentially Medicare systems.
The next question comes from the site of Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead your line is open.
You had previously discussed some efforts to try to improve persistency in your policy retention.
Did you had a lot of success on that front and is there more we might anticipate? It's actually going very well.
I'm pleased with the results there.
In the first quarter we ran a little bit ahead of our goal.
Our new initiatives on conservation we conserved a little over $7.4 million of premium versus our target of $7.1 million.
We still project that we'll conserve something over $31 million of life premium this year through our new conservation efforts.
So very pleased with where it's at and it's actually running about 4% of where we thought it would be.
How about the Medicare Part D margins with good growth in policies? Is the mix similar? How should we think about profitability then going forward? Again even with the low income subsidize and release the product that we're selling there has the same underwriting margins as the product we were selling to individuals.
So we expect the current margin as a percentage of premiums to basically maintain that margin going forward.
The next question comes from the site of Vincent Lowry with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Most of my questions have been answered the discount grade related to business and a way of new business.
So I just want to go back and talk a little bit about the direct response.
I understand that Mark you indicated there are more rejections to the applications due to the new underwriting standard but do you see any change in demographic composition or how it's used in the markets that you serve in general? Well no.
I haven't really seen a lot of change in the demographics.
Again in our insert media side our demographics are a little lower income and they are in the direct mail side.
That's why it tends to have been more impacted by the economy.
So there is some pressure but we haven't seen anything that's going to change in our demographics.
So you basically just string it from the underwriting stand as to sort of improve the mortality expense? Absolutely yes.
Again the trick in our direct response is it has to be something that's low cost and efficient because of the large numbers we're dealing with and utilizing that prescription drug records.
It did point out that about 6% of the policies that we had been issuing were really people that were uninsurable.
So it definitely is improving our mortality and improving our margins.
We're making more profit but we're issuing less business.
Okay.
Can you kind of comment on the current rejection rate versus the historical one in this direct response business? It varies by product and by market.
I don't I have those it's something we could provide for you but I don't have those in front of me.
The next question comes from the site of Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
I want to talk first a little bit more about Part D.
The premium increase there this year is still large that actually changes the growth there of the entire Company which is certainly great for 2012.
You talked a little bit about 2013 last quarter but I was wondering if you could just kind of update your thoughts on whether Part D is likely to go up down or sideways next year? In fact we are doing our pricing right now for I think by the 1st of June we have to have our pricing for 2013.
Dealing with our pharmacy benefits manager we think we've come up with some ideas to continue to have a positive impact on our pricing.
It’s impossible to project at this point of what 2013 is going to look like but right now we are optimistic that we’ll not only maintain but hopefully see additional growth in 2013 from Part D.
And in terms of the share that you have gained this year did it come primarily at the expense of a couple of companies who could directly or did it come very broadly from the entire market? Well I’m not sure that I know I don’t know exactly where those came from but again it’s something that we’ll get back to you on.
Okay and then with regard to the CEO transition Mark you talked about Gary and Larry having some complementary skills and I’m just wondering if they could share with us any preliminary thoughts about how they might organize themselves for example all of the lines and functions are going to report to both of them simultaneously or there will be some division to focus on how they are thinking about that.
Gary and Larry I’ll let you respond to that.
Just a division of focus on a day-to-day basis.
I’ll be in-charge of the TMK Marketing the CEOs report to me.
I’ll continue with the legal compliance the HR functions.
Gary why don’t you speak to your day-to-day reporting?  Jeff I will continue with the investment’s financial reporting investor relations and internal all of those areas but in addition to that the actuarial area will report to me and also the administrative area but I would like to in size we are doing that from the David's standpoint helping the operations but all material decisions will be made jointly by Larry and me.
(Operator Instructions).
We will go next to the site of Sam Hoffman with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
I want to ask a question about the initiatives underway at Liberty National.
Can you talk about the leading indicators that you are seeing that indicate to you whether or not are those initiatives going to work and then in the worst case if they don’t work can you just go back to the $7 million of sales each quarter or there kind of downside case because you are undergoing an organizational restructuring that could unravel further? Sam I will address it.
I feel very confident that Liberty National is going through a turnaround and I am very confident that the initiatives will work.
Again we Steve to Charles we moved him from American Income as well as Roger Smith as CEO I think are doing an outstanding job.
I think the attitudes at Liberty are better than they have been in quite some time.
As far as the early indicators our recruiting is growing and obviously the agent count in the last eight to nine weeks has consistently grown.
So I don’t have a contingency plan because I don’t feel like I need one.
I feel strongly that Liberty is on the right track moving forward and I think over the next couple of quarters it will be apparent to everyone.
And then one other follow-up question.
You’ve obviously had an enormously successful run at Torchmark outperforming every other company in the industry by a wide margin and now as a large shareholder of the Company stock do you intend to hold your stock in the Company through your retirement in 2013 and 2014 as well as your options.
I'm not sure how the program works.
Maybe you could comment a bit upon that and then certainly your intentions to hold your stock through the turnaround of Liberty National and the continued growth of the other businesses which you're doing so well? I definitely intend to hold my stock not just through the transition but I intend to hold it and definitely I think our stock is still undervalued by historic standards.
I think our prospects for growth again I think are the best they've been in my 10 years as CEO.
You may see as far as options and in fact – because the change in the accounting rules on options we can no longer do reload that we used to do in the past but now every office here has options that expire each year.
Even if we take the equity from those options and convert it into outright shares it will still show up as Company stock.
So you may see some of that.
In fact you will see some of that because everyone has options that expire each year but that does not mean that we're selling shares.
In fact typically most people are converting those to outright ownership shares.
Great and then the program that you have at this point it doesn't like require you to exercise all of your options and sell them upon your retirement you can basically rest and whatever you like.
That's one of the nice things.
At age 60 I have at least five years Larry? That's correct.
So on all the options I have at least five years before I have to exercise those.
There are no further questions in queue so I'd like to turn it back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those are our comments and we hope you have a great day.
See you next quarter.
That does conclude your teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation’s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn the call over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations of Torchmark Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman; and Larry Hutchison our co-CEOs; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2011 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the third quarter was $125 million or $1.29 per share a per share increase of 10% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $131 million or $1.36 per share a 9% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities and amortized costs our return on equity was 15.6% and our book value per share was $34.39 a 9% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share grew 20% to $44.86.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 6% to $454 million and life underwriting margins increased 13% to $130 million.
Net life sales increased 7% to $83 million.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D declined 4% to $170 million and health underwriting margin was $39million same as year-ago quarter.
Health sales were $15 million down 6%.
I’ll now turn the call over to Larry for his comments on the insurance operations.
Thank you Gary.
First I’ll discuss American Income.
At American Income life premiums were up 9% to $167 million and life underwriting margin was also up 17% to $56 million.
Net life sales increased 12% for the quarter to $41 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the third quarter was 5 472 up 23% from a year ago and up 3% during the quarter.
We are pleased with the continued progress at American Income and are excited about the company’s future prospects.
We continue to see growth in a number of newly hired agents who achieved our top bonus level.
It’s the first time top bonus earners were up 47% in the third quarter.
Our middle management ranks also increased by 14% in the third quarter.
First time bonus earners and middle management trends are both indicators of future agent growth.
We expect sales growth for 2012 to range from 13% to 15% while we expect sales growth for 2013 to range from 10% to 15%.
Now Direct Response.
Our Direct Response operation worldwide life premiums were up 9% to $158 million and life underwriting margin increased 8% to $37 million.
Net life sales were up 3% to $31 million.
While we’re pleased with Direct Response sales growth it was slightly lower than expected in the third quarter however the new business written during the third quarter was more profitable than the new business written in a year ago quarter.
We expect mid single-digit sales growth for 2012 and 2013.
Now Liberty National.
At Liberty National life premiums declined 2% to $70 million while life underwriting margin was up 22% to $19 million.
Net life sales declined 6% to $8 million while net health sales declined 24% to $4 million.
However both net life and net health sales have increased sequentially for two quarters in a row.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 401 down 11% from a year ago but up 4% just beginning of this year.
The producing agent count grew to 1 420 during the first three weeks of the fourth quarter.
We continue to make progress in turning around our producing agent counts in sales of Liberty National.
We are optimistic that agent growth will continue going forward and expect sales growth to range from 8% to 12% for 2013.
Medicare Part D premium revenue for Medicare Part D grew 63% to $83 million while the underwriting margin increased 8% to $7 million.
Part D sales for the quarter jumped 161% to $22 million due to the increase in low-income subsidized auto enrollees for 2012.
We expect an increase of approximately 2% to 3% in our Part D premiums for 2013.
This is less from the 2012 increase since we don’t expect this many new auto-enrollees out of our low income subsidy program next year.
I will now turn the call back to Gary.
To complete the insurance operations administrative expenses were $41 million for the quarter 2% more than a year ago quarter and in line with our expectations.
For 2013 we expect a 5% to 6% increase in administrative expenses with most of the increase due to the acquisition of Family Heritage.
However as a percentage of premium administrative expenses will be around the same level as 2012.
Now I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define is net investment income less required interest on net policy liabilities and debt was $55 million a decline of $9 million or 14% 7% on a per share basis from the third quarter of 2011.
Sequentially excess investment income was down $8 million from the second quarter.
Both the year-over-year and sequential declines are due primarily to lower investment income.
Compared to the second quarter net investment income decreased $6 million or 3% while average invested assets increased by 1%.
And investment income increased at the same rate as the assets investment income would have been up $1 million.
This $7 million negative swing is due to the decline in the portfolio yield and the large increase in short-term investments resulting primarily from the call of the $300 million of bank hybrid securities early in the third quarter.
We plan to invest the excess short-term funds and bonds by the end of the year.
Due to the expected call of our remaining $300 million of hybrid securities and the lower new money rates we expect excess investment income in 2013 to decrease approximately 6% to 7%.
However reflecting the impact of share repurchases we expect that 2013 excess investment income per share to be flat compared to 2012.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets are $11.8 billion including $10.9 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
There is no exposure to European sovereign debt and there are no commercial mortgage-backed securities or securities backed by sub-prime or Alt-A mortgages.
At September 30 the company had cash and short-term investments totaling $685 million compared to $180 million at June 30.
The additional $505 million of cash in short terms is due primarily to the $268 million of proceeds due to debt instruments issued late in the quarter and $237 million of additional funds to be invested.
Now of this amount $200 million will be used for the acquisitions of Family Heritage Life we think on November 1st $120 million for the retirement of our trust preferred debt this week and $94 million to retire the existing August 2013 debt issue.
As to fixed maturities $2.2 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus.
Below investment grade bonds are $685 million compared to $764 million at the end of the second quarter and $721 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds at fixed maturities is 6.3% compared to 6.8% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of three times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 21% which is less than most of our peers.
Both of these ratios have declined slightly since the end of the quarter as much of the excess cash held at September 30 has been invested in investment grade fixed maturities.
Overall the total portfolio is rated a high BBB plus just slightly under the A-minus of a year ago.
We had net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1.6 billion compared to $942 million a year ago.
Regarding investment yield in the third quarter we invested $326 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the utility and industrial sectors.
We invested at an average annual effective yield of 4.42% an average rating of BBB plus and an average life of 23 years.
For the year we have invested $755 million at an average yield of 4.54% and an average rating of BBB plus.
The third quarter new money yield of 4.42% has declined from the 5.65% yield for all of 2011 and the 4.64% yield in the first half of 2012.
Earlier this year we indicated that the GAAP discount rates used to discount the reserves from policies issued in 2012 would be 4.75% graded to 6.5% over seven years.
However in response to the decline in new money yields and further indication that treasury rates will continue to be near current levels for the near future.
We have changed the discount rates for policies issued in 2012 to 4.25% for five years then graded up to 6.25% over the next eight years.
For the entire portfolio the third quarter yield was 6.33% compared to 6.54% in the third quarter of 2011.
As of September 30 the yield on the portfolio is 6.33%.
As mentioned we still hold $300 million of bank hybrids that could be called.
We don’t know whether they will be called in the fourth quarter but expect all of them to be called by the end of 2013.
These bonds yield 7.35% and assuming a 4.25% reinvestment rate the loss to annual income with all of those securities are called will be $6 million after-tax.
In our guidance we assume that all will be called in 2013.
On past analyst calls we have discussed the current low interest rate environment and the impact of a lower prolonged rate scenario.
Our concern regarding an extended period of low interest rate continues to be impact on earnings not the balance sheet.
As we talked about before to maintain our underwriting margins we’ve raised the new business premium rates on the majority of American Income Life products and the Direct Response unit products by 5% as of January 1 this year.
These increases provided additional margins to help offset reductions to excess investment income on new policies without having a detrimental impact on sales.
However as long as we are in this low interest rate environment the portfolio yield will continue to decline and thus pressure excess investment income.
However the decline will be slowed by the fact that on average only 2% to 3% of fixed maturities will run off each year over the next five years and that assumes a call of the remaining $300 million of hybrid preferreds.
In the second quarter we conducted a stress test assuming a new money rate of 4.25% and determine that the portfolio yield at the end of 2016 would be in a range of 5.75% to 5.85%.
At these rates we would earn a small spread on the net policy liabilities while earning the full 575 to 585 basis points on our equity.
In this scenario we will still generate substantial excess investment income.
As I mentioned an extended low interest rate environment impacts our income statement but not the balance sheet.
Since we primarily sell non-interest sensitive protection products accounted for under FAS 60 we don’t see a reasonable scenario that will require us to write off DAC or put up additional GAAP reserves due to interest rate fluctuations.
In addition we do not foresee a negative impact on our statutory balance sheet.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our shares repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the third quarter we spent $44 million to buy 874 000 Torchmark shares.
For the full year through September 30 we have spent 318 million of parent company cash to acquire 6.6 million shares.
The available liquid assets at the parent consist of assets on hand and the expected free cash flow from operations.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
The parent began the year with liquid assets of $74 million.
During the first nine months of the year we generated about $328 million of free cash flow but spent $318 million for Torchmark share repurchases.
In addition to the remaining $83 million of cash and liquid assets the parent received approximately $420 million as a result of the issuance on September 24th of 10-year senior notes and 40-year junior subordinated notes.
As a result of this activity the parent ended the second quarter with $504 million of available liquid assets comprised of $74 million of beginning liquid assets plus the $328 million of free cash flow plus $420 million of net debt proceeds less the $318 million used for share repurchases.
Going forward along with the $504 million on hand at the end of the third quarter we should generate approximately $22 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarters giving us $526 million of total cash and liquid assets available for the remainder of the year.
Of this cash $120 million was used on October 24th to redeem our 7.1% trust preferred securities and approximately $212 million will be used to purchase the stock of Family Heritage Life leaving us with approximately $194 million of cash and liquid assets available between now and the end of the year.
It should be noted the $94 million of these assets will be invested to be used for the redemption of our $94 million of senior notes that mature on August 1 2013 or an earlier time if opportunities to economically repurchase the August 2013 notes become available.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around in NAIC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings that relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
At December 31 2011 consolidated RBC was 336% and adjusted capital was approximately $46 million in excess of that required for the targeted 325% ratio.
We expect our consolidated RBC as of the end of 2012 to be at or above this level.
Now before I turn the call back to Larry I would like to briefly discuss our recent debt issue and the purchase of Family Heritage Life Insurance Company.
First the debt issue.
With regard to our debt on September 24 we closed on $300 million 3.8% senior debt issue maturing in 2022.
The senior notes were issued to provide $94 million to pre-fund the eventual retirement of our August 2013 senior notes and $200 million to fund the acquisition of Family Heritage Life.
As we wanted to fund the majority of the Family Heritage Life acquisition internally the parent issued $150 million of these notes to two of our insurance companies.
Having these companies purchased the parent senior notes enabled us to one efficiently use insurance company cash that resulted from the $300 million of bank hybrids they called in July and you get those funds invested at market rate.
Two provide funds to the parent to fund the acquisition in a way that will allow these insurance companies to fully admit the asset on their statutory books.
Three structure of the transfer of funds to the parent in a way that minimizes the RBC charges that will be incurred by the insurance companies.
And four structure of public debt issue that was large enough to obtain the most efficient pricing available in the market.
It should be noted that the $150 million of notes owned by the two insurance companies are limited in consolidation and thus are not treated as outstanding debt or the invested assets on our consolidated financial statements.
We also issued on September 24 $125 million of 40-year junior subordinated notes with an interest rate of 5% and 7% 8%.
Those notes are callable after five years and are issued to refinance $120 million of trust preferred securities.
The trust preferred securities were called on October 24.
As a result for the new issuances our debt balances as of September 30 increased by approximately $268 million temporarily increasing our debt-to-capital ratio to 29.9% if the effects of the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity investments are ignored.
However this ratio will be reduced to 28.1% upon redemption of the trust preferred securities and to our normal levels once the august 2013 notes are redeemed.
We expect our interest expense will increase in the near term due to pre-funding of both the retirement of our trust preferred securities and the August 2013 maturity plus the additional debt incurred for the Family Heritage purchase.
For 2012 we estimate that this increase over 2011 levels will be approximately $2.1 million including $1.9 million in the fourth quarter.
For 2013 we estimate that our total interest expense will be approximately the same as 2012 levels assuming the august note is retired on its August 1st maturity.
Once the August note is retired we expect to save approximately 1.5 million in annual interest expense over pre-2012 levels.
Now with regard to the acquisition of the Family Heritage Life.
On July 31st we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase all of the outstanding stock of Family Heritage Life Insurance Company a privately-held supplemental health insurance provider for approximately $218.5 million including the assumption of $20 million in trust preferred securities with the remainder to be paid in cash.
The ultimate purchase price is subject to closing adjustments to be paid using cash from a post-closing dividend from the company.
We expect to close on November 1st assuming all regulatory approvals are received by that date.
The company was founded in 1989 and is headquartered in Cleveland Ohio.
It is a specialty insurer focused primarily on selling individual supplemental health insurance products with a return-of-premium feature.
We were attracted to the company because of its offering of protection oriented insurance to middle income families and that their sales are through Family Heritage has approximately 1 200 captive sales agents 41 sales directors and over 223 000 policies in force.
We are excited about the opportunity to work with the existing management agents and employees of Family Heritage and currently intend to operate the company as a standalone operation.
As of June 30 2012 statutory admitted assets of the Family Heritage were approximately $526 million and net capital and surplus was $62 million.
Premiums were $162 million in 2011 and $87 million through June 30 2012.
Since the transaction has not yet closed and the fair market value of company’s fixed maturity portfolio and other assets are not yet known.
The ultimate effect of certain purchase accounting adjustments cannot yet be determined.
However we anticipate that the company will add approximately $0.01 to $0.02 per share to Torchmark’s net operating income in 2012 assuming a November 1 close and will add approximately $0.13 to $0.17 per share to 2013 operating earnings.
Since we anticipate being able to take given distributions out of the company to fund the additional interest charges to be incurred by the parent we do not believe the acquisition will have a material impact on our share buyback program.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
This is our guidance.
For 2012 we expect our net operating income will be within a range of $5.15 per share to $5.19 per share.
For 2013 we expect our net operating income will be within the range of $5.45 per share to $5.85 per share.
Those are our comments.
We will now open the call up for questions.
Thank you gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll first go to the side of Jimmy Bhullar.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I had a few questions.
The first one on just your premium conservation efforts if you look at your lapse rates in most of the subsidiaries that actually been declining but American Income the lapse rate this quarter was roughly flat with the third quarter of last year? Then secondly just on the Family Heritage deal should the earnings ramp up as the year goes on or with the first quarter of next year be a normal quarter just I wanted to get an idea on whether you plan to do any expense savings or any marketing initiatives that would either reduce or increase earnings in that the deal comes on your books? And then finally on Liberty National you’ve seen a couple of quarters of decent growth in the agent count of your sales expectations actually seem fairly positive as well.
What gives you the comfort that this is not sort of a temporary blip in the agent count and what gives you the comfort as the thing that the agent counts are going to keep going from here on out.
Yeah I think just Liberty...
Yeah Jimmy as far as the lapse rates to the American Income.
If you look back over the last couple of years the third quarter is generally a higher rate and it’s somewhat due to the timing of the new issues and the lapses that occur on those policies.
We expect that rate to be lower in the fourth quarter.
The third quarter for some reasons is just unusually high from American....
Yeah.
And quarter-over-quarter results actually had been getting better but even if I compare to the third quarter of last year your lapse rates were actually flat whereas second quarter versus second quarter or first quarter versus first quarter they were improving.
Well I...
It’s one quarter so I just wanted...
Yeah we don’t – matter of fact we have seen benefits of the conversation.
As you mentioned in the last story so from the prior quarters I think this is just again I think that the third quarter is just an unusual quarter from a timing standpoint.
And again I think in the fourth quarter if you go back to the improvement we’ve seen in the older quarters.
Okay.
And secondly on Family Heritage I understood the question right.
I would anticipate that the earnings for the first quarter that will grow from there.
I don’t think that the first quarter be indicative of the entire year but we really haven’t had a change as Frank mentioned to and to look at what the purchase accounting adjustments are going to be and right now we don’t have a good feel for the facts around this going to be.
But you don’t plan on – the growth would be just as a organic growth in the business.
You are not planning any extraordinary cost savings programs or marketing initiatives that would either increase expenses or reduce expenses overtime? No there is no cost reduction expense that we’re factoring in and their expense ratios are very similar to ours and they’re very efficient and so the growth as we expect will be the organic growth of sales.
Okay.
Jimmy on Liberty National we believe that the recruiting systems are in place.
We’re now meeting with the different branch managers in the system.
They’ve accepted that and the first three weeks of this quarter we’ve seen continued steady agent growth.
So we believe that will continue.
At Liberty National we plan to roll out a laptop presentation in January.
We think this will further help in recruiting and training the new agents and we hope to see 20% of agents growth at Liberty National by 2013.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to the side of Randy Binner.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
So it sounds like – and this is kind of a sales question and so it sounds like the laptops are rolled out in January for Liberty National.
Back here in American Income I guess and I would like to hear more color.
I think you said middle manager accounts there are up 10%.
If that could be clarified that’d be great? And then I guess just trying to get color on the kind of the trend there and how sustainable the increase in the ranks of those sales managers is? Randy sales growth is sustainable.
I don’t think we’re going to see sort of the 25% agent growth per year.
It should be in fact a 10% to 12% to 15% increase agent growth is sustainable and those focus it and American Income remains is recruiting is looking at forward activity in those little agents.
It’s also management promotions.
As we promote through those different levels of management and you’ll see growth in the agency.
So that’s really the color to American Income as the both systems continue to be improved on that top is fully rolled that at the American Income so we get cost of data feedback that we can check those trends.
How about our recruiting is there anything new going on on the front end and how you’re bringing in new recruits? The Internet recruiting continues to be our biggest source of recruiting.
The personnel recruiting is also an emphasis on American Income and personnel recruiting that involves college recruiting different exciting recruiting.
When you look at military recruiting there’s a new initiative.
As the military downsizes and we see people come out of military those are strong recruits of both the American Income and Liberty National.
So we continue to look at new recruiting systems.
We hope to look at Family Heritage study their recruiting systems and having some of those in-house here.
That’s helpful.
And just to clarify did you say the middle men accounts up around 10% I missed that number? Let’s see I think I’ve said that up 14%...
14% yeah.
Okay.
And how about in their trend in particular is that able to stay at that level or does that settle down not extremely the low hanging fruit there is coming down? There’s not low hanging fruit it’s having the system of automatic promotions it will promote persons out of the agent level first level of management the line by asking the fresh level of management the second level of management is the sustainable number.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to side of Chris Giovanni.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
I guess first question just on kind of the guidance in the range.
I mean the ranges I guess are getting wider at least in the past couple of years.
So does that suggest that suggest that EPS visibility is declining some or is this just the issue with the drops in the timing? Well Chris I think part of the wider range this year is Family Heritage and we haven’t included that transaction.
We have to study that transaction as we have a great deal into Torchmark so that’s some of the impact of why we are at range.
And Chris I mean I think last year our range was $0.30 its $0.40 this year.
And I agree with Larry that a big part of it is the Family Heritage.
Okay.
And then are there any other M&amp;A opportunities you guys are currently exploring or at this point is it primarily going to be share repurchases? Well Chris we’re always looking for M&amp;A opportunities but to find the type of company that we found with Family Heritage want us in the middle income market has kept the latency selling type of products that we like.
There’s not a wealth of those kind of companies out there.
We’ll continue to look and but in the meantime I think the share repurchases will be the bulk of these of our excess capital.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the new money rate.
I guess there was a little surprise just how well you guys were able to maintain the yields quarter-over-quarter given what’s spreads did in the quarter and then I guess also you guys shortened some of the duration of the maturities of the portfolio.
So curious if you can comment some on kind of where you’re thinking as you look forward here in the 4Q you talked about the 425 kind of the stress test that you’ve done is that the level of yield you guys are currently looking at? Yeah that’s what we’re currently seeing.
And one thing that benefited us in the third quarter I think we’ve talked about this before through a partner we’ve got involved with some products...
Placements.
Product placements and we’ve I think we’ve done a $100 million of that most of that was in the third quarter.
And those are a little bit shorter but the yields are in between the 10 and 30 years off.
We really look to get a strong yield on those on those particular investments and I think that helped for the quarter.
That probably helped us get to the 442 but where we’re seeing it today and mainly we’ve invested so far which I think we’ve invested well over $200 million already in October it’s a round up for 420 to 400 quarter range.
Okay.
And still no plan to change the overall investment strategy? No not at this point.
It’s just the yield curve is too steep to drop down short and also it looks like rates are going to stay low for a while and as I mentioned we have been involved in the product placements where we had in the past.
We’re still looking for other types of investments but we just haven’t found anything that’s better we feel that’s better than the corporate bonds.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to the side of Sarah DeWitt.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
On the 2013 EPS guidance how much is embedded in your outlook in terms of share buybacks? Well I think we’re assuming free cash flow of around $360 million to $370 million next year.
And I think in our guidance we assume that our share repurchases would be around $360 million.
That’s correct Gary.
Okay great.
And so given that the midpoint of your guidance assumes about 9% EPS growth.
It seems like you’ve got 8% EPS growth just from share buybacks alone.
So could that be conservative given that the core business have been growing your Family Heritage coming on will be a partial offset from the redemption of hybrids but it just seems conservative.
So am I thinking about that correctly or I am missing anything? Well I think one thing it is going to factor into it is the – in fact there our excess investment income will be lower I think I mentioned it was probably 6% lower on a dollar basis and I think that’s we’re seeing that growth in the insurance side but that is a primary factor.
Okay great thank you.
Thank you.
We’re now going to side of Paul Sarran.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks good morning.
Was there any sort of cumulative true up in the quarter from the change in discount rate on 2012 new sales? Yes there was.
From an underwriting income standpoint it’s pretty much awash.
So there was an increase in the reserves but there is also decrease in amortization.
Where there was an impact is in the excess investment income because of the increase in the interest on the net positive our goal is an average about $500 000 impact in the quarter.
Okay.
And on Part D I don’t think you mentioned it.
Did you pick up any new LIS regions for 2013? No we did not pick up new regions for 2013.
Did you keep the ones you added this year? I think it’s actually a reduction I think we had six regions in 2013 versus about 24 regions that we had in 2012.
Okay so do you disenroll those policy holders that you added this year then or do you keep them you just don’t add new ones.
How does that work? We did not disenroll this year’s policy holders that...
Yeah if you just look at the numbers we had as Larry mentioned we had 21 regions last year and 15 of those regions were going to be able to key the auto science but we’re now going to get new new auto science.
And I think there’s five reasons where we will get new auto science.
So the core amount of that is we’re not going to see near the number of new auto science this year or in 2013 than we did in 2012.
I think in these terms we’re projecting premiums in 2013 this $327 million versus $319 million in 2012.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to side of Mark Hughes.
Your line is open.
Yeah thank you.
Good morning.
The life underwriting margin are stronger this quarter to what extend is that sustainable? Well I think it was up slightly this year.
I think if you look at the nine months our life underwriting margin is 28% of premium and overall is 29% in the quarter.
There’s not a lot of difference there but I think it the indicative of what the entire year will be if it is more in the 28% range.
Right.
And so for next year more or likely to be at 28% or slightly better? Yeah.
I think in our guidance it is slightly better than 28%.
But again we’ll talk about just a smaller difference.
Right.
The Direct Response business is something you’re confident that’s going to pick back up what makes you feel good about that? Well I think there’s three things and that is still good about the Direct Response business.
In 2013 I think on circulation we have about 3% as the current net sales will pick up about 10%.
We have initiatives for 2013 in our gold products our durables products and our other mailings.
So their combination of those items I guess feel optimistic about direct response.
Right.
A and just to be clear the guidance at this point does or does not include the acquisition? It does include the acquisition of Family Heritage.
Does include it? Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you we’ll now go to the side of Steven Schwartz.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everybody.
Just a follow up on Sarah’s question I guess I’m having a little bit of trouble.
It seems Gary you suggested that the interest rate of excess investment excuse me would be down about 6% to 7%? Yeah I say that on a dollar basis it will.
Right.
But for share basis it will flat.
Okay yeah.
Your EBITDA at 360 of share repurchase I would imagine that your general account assets excels stuff with the debt being paid off in August and whatever.
It’s still going to grow.
So in your guidance I think it would in your guidance where are you thinking the yield goes to by the end of 2013.
I think you’re currently at 6.33.
Where does that go to the by the end of 2013? Okay.
Steve first of all we think by the end of year I think at the fourth quarter it would be 6.25 would be our yield on the portfolio.
Okay.
As I mentioned earlier we’re assuming that the remaining $300 million of I presume we get called in 2013 and they have an interest rate of I think 7.3%.
Okay.
And so we’re looking at is by the end of 2013 the portfolio yield would have dropped from 6.25 to 6.04 and this sounds like these are very precise.
These are our estimates.
So that’s those hybrids still have a big impact.
Now going forward from that we’ll get back to where the decline in the portfolio yield is more like 10 basis points a year.
But the next year we’re looking for a little over 20% decline in the yield.
Okay.
Well you said your 604 versus 612 I guess you’ve got to take averages.
Maybe I’ll get back with Mike offline.
If I could only Family Heritage what are those agents thinking about their business post January 1 2014.
Do they see HCA as a growth driver or do they see that as a headwind? They see an opportunity.
Gary and I’ve addressed the top agents within the system and they’re excited about joining Torchmark.
I think they see opportunities they’re going to have with the recruiting.
I think it will bring higher ratings to the company.
And to be a part of Torchmark I think it will be a positive to that agency force.
No I’m sure you will.
I was questioning more the macro environment in ObamaCare and macro environment and how they see that? Well these are products that aren’t subject to ObamaCare.
These are products that fall aside healthcare reform.
Okay.
So these products are unaffected by that I misunderstood your question I apologize.
Okay.
Thank you Larry.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to the side of John Nadel.
Your line is open.
Hi most of my questions have been asked and answered at this point.
I’ve got one little nitpicky one left I suppose and it’s on Part D.
just looking at the quarters’ results third quarter results perhaps somewhat weak on the margins versus what we’ve seen here recently as you look out.
Was it just sort of a blip or as you look out to 2013 what do we – what should we expect for the margin on the business? Well John first of all we had an unusually high claim quarter.
And so that’s when we compare back to third quarter where we had an unusually large claim quarter there is a big difference but the margin year-to-date on that business is at 10% and we think 10% of premium that we think that’s – this will end the year at 10% of premium and that’s not as surprising just because we price it at 10.5% premium.
So we’re very close to where we price that.
Okay.
All right that’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to side of Sam Hoffman.
Your line is open.
Good morning I had a question about premium growth.
It looks like premium growth accelerated in the quarter from 5.7% to 7.2% and even if you exclude the part D it accelerated from 1.4% to 3.6% and so that’s the big step up in one quarter and it was driven I think by the direct response business.
So I mean obviously if your premium growth accelerates by 1.2% every quarter your growth rate is going to be much higher a year from now and so what I want to understand is what happened with the persistency in the business to cause that and how sustainable is it? Well Sam we are seeing advantage from better persistency but for example in direct response we had a 9% increase in premium we’ve been showing 5% to 6% increase.
Well the reason we’d 9% this year was more of an issue that the third quarter premiums of last year were very low and so it’s just an unusual comparison.
I don’t think you can the numbers you extrapolate I think you can carry for our fourth quarter but we’re looking for unlike the premiums next year and our guidance we’re going to be about 4.5% for this year.
We’re looking at next year being at least that much maybe to 5%.
So we’re seeing we’re going to see improvement but maybe not at the level you’re talking about.
Okay.
And then just can you clarify a bit about what you were saying about the discount rate and the price increase? I know you said that you lowered the discount rate at the beginning of this year and you raised price but is that going to recur both the discount rate and the price increase in 2013? And then just help us understand what’s in guidance and how we should think about that going forward? Well first of all in the guidance we are assuming the same discount rate that I talked about earlier the quarter-over-quarter graded up to six in a quarter.
We don’t feel like we feel like the situation would be very similar next year in terms of rates and that will be appropriate.
As I mentioned we did raise rates the premium rights 5% this year the effect of changing the interest rate assumption from what we had last year to this year this year really we require about 2% to 3% increase in premium.
So we actually increased the premium rates higher than we really needed but that – so but going forward we still feel like the new level that we’ve gone in the discount rates will be appropriate going forward.
Okay.
And then I guess my last question is on family heritage can you talk bit about the business and just if you could repeat the premium growth that it had and kind of how much sales it has and should be expected to grow overtime? Frank if you want to handle that.
Sure Larry.
Yeah the total premium in 2011 they had around $162 million of total premium income.
And we really look at them growing somewhere in that 8% to 9% 10% range over the next couple of years.
So far year-to-date through June 30 they have premium income of about $87 million that was reported on their statutory financial statements.
So obviously just looking toward annualizing that you end up at around $176 million or $175 million and that’s around an 8.5% increase.
So we are again expecting that the premiums to go somewhere in that 8% to 10% range.
I believe their sales but I don’t have that that number handy but I believe that it was somewhere in the $50 million range.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the call.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to side of Bob Glasspiegel.
You line is open.
I’m going to follow-up on Sam’s question and try to drill a little bit deeper into the acquisition.
It seems like that you’re saying the midpoint of the range is $0.15 accretion which is $23 million of earnings and there is going to be $2 million to $3 million of that’s pre-tax earnings and is going to require $2 million to $3 million more of underwriting.
So there is $25 million of sort of pre-tax income that needs to be spread either in the underwriting so it’s held for underwriting and/or investment income.
But I think you said investment income I think you said investment income is down 6 so that’s not going to move.
So am I right that we need about $25 million of pretax of underwriting income? Yeah that is correct.
It is going to be health business and it is somewhere in that range.
We would estimate on a pre-tax basis yeah somewhere in that $25 million to 27 million range.
So on the $180 million of premium it’s a pretty good underwriting margin so we’re talking about roughly 15%.
Yeah the underwriting margins before admin expense are somewhere we expect for 2013 to be in the 14% to 17%.
Okay my math is right.
And we do as time goes on and with new business we look forward to be slightly higher than that but with the in-force block that’s where we’re estimating at this point.
Is there anything you can do with the capital structure expense structure or cross-selling or better productivity and that’s pretty good sales actually relative to their in-force but With respect Within Torchmark on the margin that you probably haven’t factored in here.
Yeah with respect to let’s say the capital structure they are adequately capitalized at this point in time.
They do have some excess capital if you will compared to what we would normally maintain a minimum 325% level.
But at this point in time we do not anticipate taking out any of that excess capital if you will and allow that to help fund some of their future growth going forward.
I think as Gary has mentioned earlier there aren’t a significant amount of any expense savings that we’re really anticipating at this point.
We will continue to look at their investment portfolio and to see whether or not there is some opportunities there and Larry I may pass it to you with respect to potential sales and potential sales initiatives going forward.
The potential sales initiatives first of all is where the agency force and to do that it is two ways one is better recruiting methods.
The second is geographic expansion.
They are concentrated in the upper Midwest and Texas and we think those products could be offered in New York Canada other parts of U.S.
So that’s another part of the expansion we’re talking about was family heritage.
So if you guys can’t create any expense savings this must be the most efficient small company on the planet? Do you look at their expenses as a percentage of premium as it’s quite low it’s a very well run company.
So it’s impressive.
Look forward to learning more about them as you hopefully own it in next week? Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go to side of Jeff Schuman.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
I understand that in part D there was volatility this quarter and there will be volatility some times but can you remind us at this point do you is there any sort of normal kind of base line seasonality to the margins in that business? Well Jeff we really haven’t seen it.
I mentioned last year third quarter was low.
We can’t expect we might see that this year but we said it was higher.
Yeah this business is priced every year and we just said and the clients come at different times.
We just haven’t seen seasonality that we can count on.
Okay thank you.
And then this should probably be obvious but just Jimmy I mean I guess the excess investment income compares to the down six does that exclude Family Heritage from both periods or is that just in 2013 and you’re still down six? That includes Family Heritage in both periods.
In both periods okay.
Yeah.
Remember for 2012 we only had them for two months but yeah it includes both periods.
But includes it on a pro forma basis for 2012? No not on a pro forma basis.
Okay.
But over their actual additional access would be for those time of two months.
Okay I guess just for some modeling perspective do you have idea how that compares and would have been on an apples to apples basis? Yeah.
We’ll have to find I missed it but I can find that...
Okay that’s it for me.
Thanks.
I have got it excluding family service excuse me Family Heritage we would project for 2013 that excess investment income would be down somewhere this is dollar amount not per share dollars would be down somewhere between 7% and 10% and on per share basis excess investment income would be a decline of 2% to 4%.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
With Family Heritage I was saying earlier on per share basis it will be flat for 2013.
Okay thanks for clearing that up.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I’ll now turn the conference back over to our speakers for closing remarks.
All right thank you for joining us this morning those are our comments and we’ll talk to you again next quarter.
Good day and welcome to Torchmark Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations of Torchmark Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2011 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I’ll now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter was $127 million or $1.33 per share a per share increase of 10% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $151 million or $1.58 per share a 32% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized costs our return on equity for 2012 was 15.5% and our book value per share was $35.24 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share grew 21% to $45.85.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue grew 5% to $452 million and life underwriting margins increased 9% to $129 million.
Net life sales increased 3% to $83 million.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D increased 13% to $203 million and health underwriting margin improved 10% to $45 million.
Health sales increased 67% to $35 million.
I’ll now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the insurance operations.
Thank you Gary.
First let’s discuss American Income.
At American Income life premiums were up 9% to $171 million and life underwriting margin was also up 16% to $57 million.
Net life sales increased 8% for the quarter to $40 million.
The producing agent count at the end of fourth quarter was 5 176 up 18% from a year ago but down 5% during the quarter.
We’re very pleased overall with the progress made at American Income in 2012.
The agent count decreased during the fourth quarter is not surprising as American Incomes agent count typically decreases in the fourth quarter.
We also had increased terminations resulting from the big growth spurt we had in the early part of 2012.
We’re excited about the company’s future prospects and we expect sales growth for 2013 to range from 10% to 14%.
Now Direct Response our Direct Response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 5% to $153 million and life underwriting margin increased 6% to $34 million.
Net life sales were down 4% to $32 million however for the year life sales were up 3%.
In addition the business we grew was more profitable.
Response rates were lower than anticipated in the fourth quarter.
We believe this is possibly due to the state of the economy however it is not unusually a fluctuations (Inaudible) from time to time in Direct Response.
We are confident that our 2003 initiatives will help increase response rates in 2013 and we expect mid-single digit sales growth in 2013.
Now Liberty National Liberty National life premiums declined 2% to $69 million while life underwriting margin was up 14% to $20 million.
Net life sales grew 3% to $9 million and net health sales declined 12% to $4 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 419 up 6% from the year ago.
We are pleased with the progress we’ve made in turning around our producing agent counts and sales at Liberty National.
We continue to work to change the culture of this agency.
We’re optimistic that agent growth will continue going forward and we expect sales growth to range from 8% to 12% for 2013.
Family Heritage our results improved two months in our Family Heritage operations as we completed the acquisition on November 1.
Health premiums were $30 million and health net sales were $7 million.
We are also excited about the growth potential of Family Heritage’s health business.
We intend to grow this agency this geographic expansion and the implementation of our internet recruiting program.
For 2013 we expect premium income to range from $195 million to $205 million with margins as a percentage of the health premium about 18% to 19%.
We expect health sales to be approximately $50 million to $53 million in 2013 a growth rate of 5% to 9% over 2012.
Medicare Part D premium revenue for Medicare Part D grew 73% to $84 million while the underwriting margin increased 49% to $10 million.
Part D sales for the quarter fell 53% to $46 million due to the decrease in lower income subsidized enrollees for 2013.
As we don’t expect as many new auto enrollees under the income subsidy program in 2013 as we had in 2012 we won’t have a type of sales and premium growth we had in 2012.
We expect a decrease of approximately 5% to 7% in our Part D premiums for 2013 due primarily to price competition in the full year group market.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Gary.
Thanks Larry.
To complete the insurance operations administrative expenses were $44.5 million for the quarter 8% more than a year ago quarter.
The increase is due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage and the 2012 expiration of a third party agreement under which we received reimbursement for providing administrative services.
For 2013 we expect a 6.5% to 7.5% increase in administrative expenses with most of the increase due to the acquisition of Family Heritage.
However as a percent of premium administrative expenses will be around the same level as 2012.
Now I’ll spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest or net policy liabilities and debt was $56 million a decline of $8 million or 13% 6% decline on a per share basis from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Sequentially excess investment income was down $1 million from the third quarter.
Due to expected calls hybrid securities and lower new money rates we expect excess investment income in 2013 to decrease approximately 6.5% to 7.5%.
However reflecting the impact of share repurchases we expect 2013 excess investment income per share to be down 1% to 2% compared to 2012.
Now regarding the investment portfolio investment assets are $12.5 billion including $12 billion of fixed maturities at amortized costs.
There is no exposure to European sovereign debt and there are no commercial mortgage backed securities or securities backed by sub-prime or Alt-A mortgages.
Of the fixed maturities $11.4 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A minus and below investment grade bonds are $585 million compared to $685 million at the end of the third quarter and $701 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds of fixed maturities is 4.9% compared to 6.3% at September 30 and 6.4% a year ago.
The $100 million decline in the fourth quarter is due primarily to calls at sales.
With the portfolio leverage of 3.5 times the percentage of big bonds to equity excluding net annualized gains with fixed maturities is 17% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall the total portfolio was rated A minus the same as a year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1.6 billion compared to $964 million a year ago.
Regarding investment yield in the fourth quarter we invested $729 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and utility sectors.
Large amount of fourth quarter acquisitions is due to the reinvestment of proceeds from bonds called in the third quarter as well as bonds sold for tax purposes.
In order to get the excess cash invested in a timely manner we temporarily lowered our yield requirements resulting in an average annual effective yield of 4.05%.
However I want to note that we did not lower our credit quality standards.
If we had invested a normal amount of cash during the fourth quarter our average annual effective yield would have been around 4.25%.
As such our guidance for 2013 assumes the new money raised at 4.25%.
The average rating for fourth quarter acquisitions is BBB plus and the average life of 27 years.
For the year we invested $1.5 billion at an average yield of 4.3% in an average rating of BBB plus.
For the entire portfolio the fourth quarter yield was 6.2% compared to 6.52% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Excluding Family Heritage the yield on the portfolio at December 31 is 6.19%.
Including the Family Heritage portfolio of lower yielding government securities the yield on the total portfolio at December 31st is 15 basis points lower or 6.04%.
By the way the addition of Family Heritage results in a similar 15 basis point reduction and the overall yield on the net policy liabilities at December 31 reducing net yield to 5.52%.
On the last call we indicated that we still have approximately $300 million of bank hybrids that could be called.
In the fourth quarter $38 million were called leaving $262 million of those securities in the portfolio at year-end.
Excluding $37 million that we assume will not be called this year we have $225 million of hybrids that we expect to be called in 2013.
Of this amount we know for certain that $66 million will be called in the first quarter and for guidance purposes we assume that the remaining $159 million will be called by the end of the first quarter.
Assuming a 4.25% reinvestment rate the lost annual income related to the $225 million of recalls would be approximately $3.7 million after-tax in 2013 and $4.4 million after-tax on an annual basis going forward.
On past analyst calls we’ve discussed the current low interest rate environment and the impact of a lower longer rate scenario.
Our concern regarding an extended period of low interest rates continues to be the impact on earnings not the balance sheet.
As long as we are in this lower interest rate environment the portfolio yield will continue to decline and thus pressure excess investment income.
However the decline will be slowed by the fact that on average only 2% to 3% of fixed maturities will run off each year over the next five years and that assumes a call of the bank hybrids that we previously discussed.
In the fourth quarter we updated our stress test assuming a new money rate of 4.25% for the next five years and determine that the portfolio yield at the end of 2017 would be around 5.55%.
Assuming a 4% new money rate the portfolio yield at the end of 2017 will only be around five basis points lower at 5.50%.
At these rates we would earn a small spread on the policy liabilities while earning the full 550 to 555 basis points on our equity less the interest required to service debt.
In this scenario it will still generate substantial excess investment income.
As I mentioned an extended low interest rate environment impacts our income statement but not the balance sheet.
Since we sell non-interest sensitive protection products accounted for under FAS 60 we don’t see a reasonable scenario that would require us to write-off DAC or to put up additional GAAP reserves due to interest rate fluctuations.
In addition we do not foresee a negative impact on our statutory balance sheet as a result of our cash flow testing indicates that our reserves are more than adequate to compensate for lower interest rates.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the fourth quarter we spent $42 million to buy 844 000 Torchmark shares.
For the full year we have spent $360.5 million of parent company cash to acquire 7.5 million shares.
The parent ended the year with liquid assets of $147 million including $94 million that has been invested to be used for the redemption of our senior notes that mature on August 1 2013 or at an earlier time if opportunities to repurchase the notes become available.
This leaves the parent with $53 million of liquid assets available for other corporate needs.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow in 2013.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent and the subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
While our 2012 statutory earnings have not yet been finalized and assuming shareholder dividends remain at the current level we expect free cash flow in 2013 to be in the range of $355 million to $365 million.
Thus including the $53 million available from assets on hand we will have approximately $408 million to $418 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
To-date in 2013 we have used $17.7 million of this cash to buy 330 000 Torchmark shares.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain of approximately $50 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries we plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
In the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio was lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
Although we haven’t finalized our 2012 statutory financial statements we expect that the RBC at December 31 2012 will be in the range of 330% to 340%.
Now before I turn the call back to Larry.
I would like to briefly discuss the purchase of Family Heritage Life Insurance Company.
On November 1st we closed on the purchase of all the outstanding stock of Family Heritage a privately held supplemental health insurance provider.
The base purchase price of $218.5 million was paid for with $115 million of internal funds from our life insurance companies and $68.5 million of additional debt including the assumption of $20 million of trust preferred securities issued by Family Heritage’s parent.
Final closing and post-closing adjustments of approximately $15.5 million were paid with proceeds from a post-closing dividend from Family Heritage.
The Company added $0.02 per share to Torchmark’s net operating income in 2012 net of the after-tax incremental financing costs of 3.8% on the $218.5 million purchase price.
We anticipate that the Company will add between $0.16 and $0.20 per share to 2013 operating earnings after financing costs.
Since we anticipate being able to take dividend distributions out of the Company to fund additional interest charges at the parent we do not believe the acquisition will have a material impact on Torchmark’s share buyback program.
Those are my comments I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2013 we expect our net operating income will be within a range of $5.45 per share to $5.75 per share.
The decrease in guidance is due primarily to the fact we’re repurchasing shares at a higher price than we originally anticipated and also due to the loss of some employer group Part D cases because of increased competition.
Those are our comments we will now open the call up for questions.
Hi thank you.
Good morning I had a question first on the Direct Response business.
Sales have actually slowed for each of the past three quarters and I think you mentioned that maybe response rates are lower just given the economy but given what the trends have been recently how comfortable are you that you could actually do your mid-single digit sales growth target because the economy is certainly not changing much or its unnecessary economy changes? Then secondly just on the Liberty National business the margins on the life side were very strong this quarter and you had several initiatives going on to improve the margins there but what’s your expectation do you expect a further improvement from here?   I’ll address the Direct Response sales first Jimmy.
We have confidence that the Direct Response rates will come up in the second quarter of this year.
We currently have initiatives regarding our adult products.
We also are testing different initiatives with packaging.
We think each of those will have a positive effect on our response rates as we go forward.
Jimmy on Liberty National for the quarter we had an underwriting margin of about 29% versus 25% last year.
True.
That was a little higher because we had a lower claim month or lower claim quarter.
For the year the underwriting margin was 26% versus 22% at the last year and the primary difference there is the fact that we’ve lowered the non-DAC acquisition expenses by the changes we made in the agency system there.
On a go forward basis the margin won’t be 29% it’s going to be at the 26% or a little above the 26% range.
Then just one more on Family Heritage if you could just talk about how the results you gave some guidance for how the results have been versus your expectations and any pleasant or unpleasant surprises as you’ve looked at the business a little bit more?  Jimmy as we look at the business there are no unpleasant surprises.
Integration goes forward well.
The agency is growing as expected.
We’re seeing some addition within the agency in case some recruiting programs take place.
Those were the comments you finally hear because there are no surprises in the sales guidance that was given in our accounts.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to ask at Liberty is there any sort of structural reason why the margins overtime can’t get up to the 32% 33% range you run at American Income?  Paul we still have higher expense at Liberty and have had as far as acquisition expenses -- and although that’s we have made improvements there it’s going to take a while for that to work through the results because of the large in-force like we have.
I don’t see us getting to the 31% level at the 27% level 27% 28% margin level we could get to that on a fairly soon basis.
On Direct Response towards the end of last year beginning of this year you’re talking about new underwriting technology in a pretty big expansion of circulation I think well into the double-digits which I would have thought should drive pretty strong sales in the back half of this year or in 2012.
Did something go wrong with that program or not as expected once you implemented it?  Nothing is going wrong with the program.
I think the underwriting trends you’re referring to is the use of pharmaceutical data underwriting program actually that decreases of sales because you think we reject more business.
We have greater profits on the business and you see a decline in sales and we’re certainly seeing that comes through because we’re rejecting more business as we apply that data through the end of any process.
I think the idea was you increased circulation by enough to offset the higher declines that did that not occur did you end up declining more business than you expected before hand?  Paul I think we did increase circulation but as Larry mentioned our response rates were down so that continue to offset the increase of circulation.
Okay all right thanks.
Hi good morning.
In American Income on the sales growth guidance why did you lower that range modestly versus your prior guidance for 2013?  Because we had a decline in the growth of the agency in fourth quarter and it’s just slightly -- it’s 10% to 14% versus 10% to 15% guidance we gave in the last quarter and it’s just recognizing that we have not as many agents signing business in the first quarter that you’d hope.
Then just following up on that anything about longer term opportunities that you see to grow the agent count? Is the current pace sustainable over several years and how much opportunity is there to grow before you view that as saturated?  It’s not saturated at all.
We have unlimited opportunity to grow that agency force so naturally I would say the agency force is 10 000 to 12 000 agents in American Income.
I don’t think it’s the same when they have 20% agency growth year in and year out.
I would predict that you can see the agency count at the end of fourth quarter 2013 at 5 900 to 6 000 agents and it could vary.
It could be slightly higher than that or slightly less but certainly 10% agent growth per year is sustainable at American Income.
Sarah one thing that I might add to that we expect 10% to 14% growth at American Income.
You probably won’t see that in the first quarter and may be more mid-single digit in the first quarter because of the fact that we had a very large first quarter last year and as Larry mentioned we’ll be building up the agent count as we go through the year.
So the growth will be more towards -- starting with the second quarter on than say the first quarter.
Then finally just on the underwriting margin the growth there is the strongest it’s been in several years that mostly you reflect to your pricing actions and how should we be thinking about that going forward?  Well first it’s -- I really don’t know any margins having changed that much in terms of the impact of the increased premium.
It’s more from the reduction in the acquisition cost that we could no longer defer.
We’ve reduced our lead cost and we made that a sounds really SG&amp;A.
But when you look at on a year-to-date basis this year versus last year the margins 33 versus 31 well that two points increase in margin came from the fact that we reduced those expenses from 5% of premium to 3% of premium.
Okay great.
Makes sense.
Thanks for the answers.
Okay.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Thanks good morning.
Just want to circle back a couple of details on Family Heritage.
Can you remind us is there any obvious seasonal pattern to the earnings or premiums there?  I think there’s a seasonal pattern like our other agency forces you tend to have higher agency growth in the first eight months of the year and usually the fourth quarter is a little bit slower for Family Heritage as well as the other agency operations.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Then help us put this into context of the risk-based capital ratios you gave I’ve forgotten.
Is this -- they are just staying at the holding company or is this downstream and if its downstream is it included in the sort of consolidated RBC view that you gave earlier?  Frank?  Yeah Jeff it is down in the subsidiaries and included in the RBC for the consolidated group.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Do you have a rough estimate of what the RBC specific to Family Heritage ended up at?  I do not at this point in time.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Okay because my recollection was at least prior to any transaction adjustments that it was pretty high and earnings are pretty strong so I was just wondering if there was at this point any capital to be executed from there?  At this point of time we don’t anticipate taking out any excess capital allowing for some growth.
You are correct in that the RBC was fairly high at their company individually and on a consolidated basis it really doesn’t move the needle very much on the consolidation.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay thank you.
Thank you good morning.
The Liberty National sales for us you shared some specific outlook numbers for year-end and sustainable growth for American Income and any similar numbers for Liberty National?  For Liberty National agent count should grow up by about 10% also this year.
Our traditional agent count at the end of the year was 1 419.
I’d expect that to be at 1 800 to 1 900 agents by the end of the fourth quarter.
Then that sort of pace sustainable or what pace is sustainable?  That pace is certainly sustainable Mark part of this is sustainable growth traditionally speaking Liberty National traditionally has been focused on the southeast as we continue to have offices outside of the southeast that will help that growth rate at the Liberty National.
The other development is as we add the [accelerated] management at Liberty National it produces more candidates to become branch managers and open new branches across the U.S.
So I think certainly that growth rate is sustainable for the foreseeable future.
Then the Medicare Part D I think the group price competition you mentioned any more detail you can provide there.
Was that -- is the market now a little more rational or do you expect that to continue? I don’t think it will continue.
What we saw this year was a new entrant into the market and we feel they’ve substantially underpriced their business that’s our experience from the new entrant under prices their business that’s [arranged] pretty quickly and so we don’t think that’s a trend going forward.
Hey good morning everybody.
First I was hoping that’s impossible I think it might have been Gary.
Kind of if you could repeat the Family Heritage Life sales guidance he was going fast I didn’t catch that? At Family Heritage we expect health sales of approximately $50 million to $53 million in 2013 and Steven that would be a growth rate of 5% to 9% for 2012.
For 2013 we expect premium income to range from $195 million to $205 million.
Again we’re seeing the margins as a percentage of health premium to be about 18% to 19%.
Okay great.
Then the guidance on L&amp;L sales was that life only or did that include health as well? A bit life and health.
Both okay.
Then on the subject of health I don’t think there was any reference to it in your script.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about what is going on at United American and what is driving that and I guess whether or not we should be happy about it.
What’s going on United American is gradually strengthening Medicare supplement sales through a general agency force.
Medicare supplement is difficult to predict as you go forward there is many uncertainties around that market because the American supplement sales declines automatically over the last five years.
We think that we’ll see continued growth within Medicare supplement but that assumes that there aren’t major political changes around the Medicare supplement arena.
Okay all right.
That’s what I had thank you guys.
Good morning everyone.
After two months you’re getting really excited about the acquisition on Family Heritage because I think if my notes are right you bumped up your premium expectations from 180 to 195 to 200 and your margins from 14 to 17 to 18 to 19.
So what are you seeing that’s getting you more excited about both growth and profitability and if I work through the midpoint of the range those two things looks like it’s about $0.06 to $0.07 there’s more admin spending eat up half of it or is there some conservatism? Bob we’re excited about the growth potential because as we get familiar with the leadership of Family Heritage we should see strong leadership within that agency.
I think the pending uncertainty of the sales that comprehends and present for the last two years now that uncertainty has been removed as a part of Torchmark and really focus on growing that agency.
As it could then be additional recruiting systems additional compensation systems.
I think we want to see real growth at Family Heritage.
There is also geographic expansion that’s been taking place.
Our building at New York we’re looking at some space down operate and so additional expansion possibilities for the Company.
So don’t know deer antler spray real legitimate underlying growth in the production that’s good.
The margin 400 bps more I mean that’s a pretty big bump up in two months of expectations? Yeah I’m not sure.
Frank? Yeah Bob the real increase in that a big majority of that is a result of the finalizing all of our PGAAP computations.
As we said on the last call we are very early in the stages of taking a look at purchase business and where some of the margins would be on the acquired block.
And now that we’ve finalized the PGAAP computations the margins really on that opening block really looking at 15% on an after admin expense basis which was a little bit higher or a fair amount higher than what we had originally anticipated.
So that’s really driving a big portion of that increase in the guidance.
It’s accounting or is it -- things are better at last year by operating? Well part of it’s accounting just from estimates on where the final interest rate adjustments and how reserves will be calculated and the (inaudible) would be calculated and amortized off over time but part of it is also just real getting a better comfort in where ultimate assumptions would be and underlying margins.
Remind me whether there was any expense efficiencies to be realized.
We are probably seeing just a little bit of reduction in some of the initial cost estimates that we had but nothing real material ultimately but we’re looking at admin expenses being about 5% of their premiums.
So they’re a very efficient operation but we’re seeing a little bit lower than what we had originally anticipated as well.
And too early to think about cross-selling or new products into their distribution channel right? Correct.
Yes.
When should we think about that or not at all is that be too confusing? I think we want to be careful is to expand that cross-selling Bob.
I’d really like to focus on expanding the agency.
They’re doing very well with the product mix they have now and let’s stay focused on -- just trying the basic agency with the existing product mix.
Thanks for the insights.
And hopefully maybe we can get some of the management on a call at some point.
I’d be glad to do that.
Thanks very much and good morning Gary to you and to the rest of your team.
My questions relate to the Health business.
For reasons that I think you’ve discussed the Part D business pardon me had essentially no sales increase either in the quarter or in the year and you’re showing very very strong premium growth.
I presume that happens because you had very strong sales in the year before.
Could you just help me understand that financial reporting dynamic? Well Bob the reason we had to increase sales in 2012 really occurred at the end of last year when we received auto assigns from I think 20 states or 20-plus states.
That all came about at one-time that production for the most part we did have some production during the year but the [auto sign] business really -- we get notified at the beginning of the year.
And so most of the reduction came in there and that accounted for the large production at the beginning of the year.
We just at the end of the year this year we didn’t get the auto assigns that we’ve gotten in the prior years.
We’ve been able to maintain for the most part what we had gotten the year before but we did not get new auto assigns.
So the guidance then is for premium level to be down modestly in 2013 from 2012 in the Part D area? Well we actually expected premiums to be up in 2013 slightly because not all that business is auto assign business.
The auto assign business is about 45% of the total premium for us.
We also sell this through our United American General Agency and through Direct Response.
So we were thinking that premiums will go from $318 million in 2012 to I think last quarter we talked about $327 million for 2013.
Well now that looks like 2013 is only going to be $300 million and the reason for that as Larry mentioned earlier in the comments as that we lost some large groups that it’s a year-to-year contract and they elected to go with the carriers who are offering lower rates.
So we’ll actually have a slight decline in premiums in 2013 from the 318 million in 2012 to around 300 million in 2013.
And then with respect to the core of your health business I just want to build on the question and answer from earlier.
Indeed you had many areas when Mark was running the company in which the health business seemed to be in decline is it -- and now we’re getting very strong sales of health products along within -- at least in the December quarter it looks like just like to turn to the right page here.
Yeah it looks like very strong premium growth as very strong premium growth as well.
Is it purely a matter of the Medicare supplement or are we seeing resurgence in sales of other medical products -- sales and premiums of other medical products other than med supplement? Eric if we go back five or six years ago a lot of the premiums relative to an unlimited health benefits and it was product line as we exit in 2009 2010 it subject to ObamaCare more important that we just didn’t like the persistency we didn’t like the margins for that business.
So you’re seeing a little decline over the last year as that block has decreased.
I think we stand about at $50 million block now which we’re seeing here is an increase around two products.
So our individual Medicare supplement sales have been good over the last 18 months and we’re also seeing the addition of Family Heritage which substantially changes our health and insurance sales.
And I know you report what your sales would have been in Health do you report what’s your premium growth if Mike would say or maybe you can tell is do you report what your premium growth in Health would have been excluding the acquisition of Family Heritage? I guess we can see that on Page 10 of our Analyst pack we can see that so I’m offset at this point.
Fair enough right.
Thanks.
Just a couple kind of follow-ups here.
On the Medicare sub-dynamic I guess over time -- you know maybe a few years we thought saw Medicare Advantage the other kind of pieces of the Medicare market there for supplemental so it was going to fade and it kind of held on better than we would have thought.
Is part of kind of the better Medicare sub sales overall because folks are starting to move away from Medicare Advantage as kind of payouts for that get constricted.
Are we kind of finally seeing that switchover? I don’t think it’s a switchover.
The original prediction was that there will be 17 million additional release for Medicare Advantage.
We certainly haven’t seen those numbers materialized and [we’re interested] in seeing to go forward with healthcare reform if (inaudible) doesn’t materialize you would see much stronger Medicare supplement sales.
I think there’s strength in Medicare supplement sales.
We just done a better job recruiting general agents and we’ve better penetrated particularly with the high deductible health plan and the successful offering of that plan in a number of states.
Thanks for that.
So from what you said I mean Medicare Advantage just hasn’t and even though the payouts from CMS of those companies have been lower it’s been a sticky product still that you’re seeing with clients was that right? That’s what we’re saying yes.
And then back to AIA I appreciate the guidance there for ‘13.
And I guess people have hit at it a couple of different ways but it still seems like a confident guide and you targeted hopefully 6 000 agents there by year end ‘13 but I’d like to hear kind of more -- maybe more color on what’s going well there.
Is it still manager progression is it -- you’ve talked in the past about better analytics around kind of recruiting data and kind of segment and who’s successful and who’s not.
But just would be interested that’s a major kind of debatable point on the stock is whether or not AIA sales could hit that level.
So just would like to hear more kind of on what’s driving your confidence there? Randy this is what’s driving your confidence is we’re focusing most right now is agent retention and so we’re working at different systems everything from lead support to better training to help that agent retention.
We’re also working at changes that we could introduce in our compensation systems and we stretch out that compensation and we keep those [first share] agents longer.
And structurally what I see is a growing SGA body.
We’ve added 5 new SGAs this year.
We believe those of you who were successfully had also contributed to the agent growth and which you’ve seen in the last five years so I think there is a long average age of that SGA body and so I’m comfortable that those SGAs will continue to grow and expand within each territories and expand their agencies.
Is that -- SGA sounds like is that a new office or is that just a new individual?  New SGA is a new office and some of those are promoted into the system as far as an agent.
From SGA they become MGA the last set of progression is from SGA position and we open those offices depending on opportunity and we look at the company support we look at the recruiting support you can get in a particular office and that’s how you open the new offices.
It’s in addition to a nice attraction.
So you did 5 new SGA offices in ‘12 is the similar amount expected for ‘13?  For ‘13 and again we’re looking at who are these MGAs that are ready to take that next step.
We normally make sure that the MGA is always successful.
So we look at their production and we look at their time in the business and then Roger and Company make that decision to promote that MGA to an SGA position.
Then just one clarification I think AIA already does business in most major metropolitan areas so when you are opening a new offices these offices are being opened like in new cities or is it adding office like in a growing suburb or something like that?  We’re typically adding to -- we have SGAs in all states and which are looking as particularly in large metropolitan areas with really the excess in each year the excess recruits in terms of system.
The personal and other recruiting sections that we have there is extra capacity that we’re going to add in SGA.
All right understood thank you.
Thanks for taking my question good morning everybody.
One on Part D and one on Direct Response.
Part D obviously a lot of great color and I appreciate all the guidance there on sales in top line.
The margin in 4Q was probably one of the strongest I can recall seeing it around 12%.
Is there any reason to believe that we’ve stepped up on the margin or should we still be thinking about something more like the 10% going forward?  John we’re looking at margin of between 10% and 11% for next year.
One of the problems with the Part D is that the clients do not come in evenly throughout the year and so from quarter-to-quarter you’ll see some fluctuations but we’ve priced the product around 2.5% level and that’s what we expect in terms of margins.
Then a sort of longer-term question around Direct Response.
I get so much less mail and I think a lot of people get so much less mail now versus a year ago versus especially versus 10 years ago So we’ve gone electronic billing and so much and the world is going more and more paperless or at least the U.S.
Is that over time do you think that that sort of continuing trend becomes sort of a secular impediment to the potential growth of Direct Response?  That is why I don’t because if you go to Direct Response in 2007 a very small percentage of our business came through electronically i.e.
the Internet or the electronic media and today it’s a significant part of our business.
It’s the fastest growing segment of Global Life international companies saw.
Global Life channel is not different than it was 20 years ago.
It’s continuing to work to enhancing how do we reach our consumer and I think you’ll see a greater improvement.
But mail is still an important part and foundation of the Company but I think we’re confident that we can grow Direct Response through other media.
Not only from the Internet but we’re now putting our 800 net phone number on mailings and inserts and over 10% of our business is now coming in through inbound calls.
As Larry mentioned we’re just trying to find all the different ways that we can reach the customer but one thing to consider too there is maybe less -- solicitations that you get in the mail that means there’s less competition in the mail for us.
The mail is still going to be a vital part of it but we’re -- as Larry mentioned we’ve really grown the percentage of our sales.
I think it’s up to 40% that’s either internet or inbound versus a few years ago it was much less than that.
That’s very helpful.
I didn’t realize it was that strong already.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
What do you see -- if you can give me some comments about what’s driving the uptick in lapse rates at American Income? It seems like there is a 15% to 20% business point increase quarter-to-quarter at the agency? There was a strong uptick in the lapse rates we’re talking about first year if you look at renewal rates there is one uptick.
Yeah renewal rate is pretty stable yeah.
Right you expect your agency force since you have more new agents selling business.
You have an uptick in your lapse rates and we had an 18% growth in our new agents last year.
So I would expect to see an uptick.
[That’s not across that] if you go back two years ago in the fourth quarter we had the same first year lapse rates.
So it’s within and on the range in my opinion.
How would you comment on the seasonality of lapse rate at a -- should it be pretty consistent quarter-over-quarter or there is a more of an uptick in the last quarter in the fourth quarter? If you look at the agent recruiting in the agency forces typically 80% of your agent recruitment is in the first eight months.
And you have been having new agents starting the year so by the time you get later in the year you get more new agents form business it would be logical you see a small uptick in the first year lapse rates as you have more new agents sign business.
On the Direct Response side you see seasonality more there than maybe in our agency line part of that is because we’ve -- a good fortune of our Direct Response sales occur in the first second quarter and so you see more of the lapses coming in the third and fourth quarter.
So you obviously see a higher lapse rate in the third and fourth quarter versus the first and second quarter in Direct Response.
I think the item that’s affecting the lapse rates is in Direct Response.
As we mentioned earlier using the (inaudible) confirmation to underwrite business with that regulation more substandard business which has a higher premium rate.
If you’re going to issue more substandard business than you’re going to issue business at higher premium rates that’s followed with higher lapse rates as a result.
How do you generally reflect that in your actuarial valuation or reserve.
I mean in the annual review is it typically you change your lapse rate in reserve calculations annually after seeing this general experience? Well I don’t think we’re getting back to Direct Response so we haven’t seen any change in experience of as Larry mentioned the substandard business at this price for us for the higher lapse rate.
So our reserves are going to set up accordingly and we’re expecting those lapse rates that is really not adjustment necessary.
Okay thanks for the answers.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those are our comments and we’ll talk to you again next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mike Major Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2012 10-K and any subsequent forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I’ll now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the first quarter was $132 million or $1.39 per share a per share increase of 9% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $120 million or $1.27 per share also a 9% increase on a per-share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity for the first quarter was 15.6% and our book value per share was $35.98 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share grew 20% to $45.88.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $471 million and Life underwriting margins increased 6% to $133 million.
The growth in underwriting margin exceeded the premium growth due to the lower amortization of our deferred acquisition costs.
The lower amortization rate is a result of improvements and persistency attributable to our ongoing conservation program and is incorporated in our guidance for the full-year.
Net Life sales decreased 4% to $85 million.
On the Health side premium revenue excluding Part D increased 23% to $222 million and Health underwriting margin grew 25% to $50 million.
Improvement in the Health underwriting margin was due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage.
Health sales increased 57% to $24 million.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the insurance operations.
Thank you Gary.
First let’s discuss American Income.
At American Income Life premiums were up 9% to $174 million and Life underwriting margin was also up 7% to $56 million.
Net Life sales decreased 3% for the quarter to $38 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the first quarter was 5 612 up 10% from a year ago and up 8% during the quarter.
While net sales decreased in the first quarter we are very pleased overall with the progress that continues to be made at American Income.
Trends have been very positive since the beginning of March and we expect sales growth for the full-year 2013 to range from 10% to 14%.
Now Direct Response.
In our Direct Response operation at Globe Life Life premiums were up 4% to $168 million and Life underwriting margin increased 1% to $39 million.
Net Life sales were down 5% to $37 million.
However the new business written in the first quarter of 2013 at a profit margin approximately 1% to 2% higher than the year ago quarter.
Response rates continued to be lower than normal in the first quarter.
We believe this is possibly due to the state of the economy as the expiration of the payroll tax credit had a significant impact on the pocket book of the families in our target market.
However as we indicated on our fourth quarter call it’s not unusual to have fluctuations like this from time to time in Direct Response.
Based on positive test results we are confident that our 2003 initiatives will help increase response rates in 2013 and we still expect mid single-digit sales growth in 2013.
These initiatives include rate adjustments and higher face amount offerings on adult products.
Now Liberty National.
At Liberty National Life premiums declined 2% to $70 million while Life underwriting margin was up 10% to $19 million.
Net Life sales fell 4% to $7 million while net Health sales declined 13% to $3 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 375 up 8% from a year ago but down 3% during the quarter.
While the agent count was down sequentially in the first quarter we continue to be pleased with the progress being made in turning around Liberty National.
As we’ve said many times this is slow process and agency growth tends to occur and a stair step pattern.
We continue to work to change the culture of this agency.
The implementation of the laptop presentation is occurring a little more slowly than we expected but steady progress is being made.
With respect to geographic expansion we will be opening four new offices over the next 90 days and we are optimistic that agent growth will continue going forward.
Sales growth is expected to range from 4% to 8% for the full-year 2013.
Family Heritage.
Health premiums were $46 million and Health net sales were down $11 million.
As we previously indicated we intend to grow this agency through geographic expansion and implementation of our Internet recruiting program.
For 2013 we expect premium income to range from $188 million to $196 million with margins as a percentage of Health premium of about 19% to 20%.
We expect sales of approximately $48 million to $50 million in 2013.
Medicare Part D.
Premium revenue for Medicare Part D grew 4% to $77 million while the underwriting margin increased 2% to $8 million.
Part D sales for the quarter fell 65% to $9 million due to the decrease in low income subsidized enrollees for 2013.
As we’ve mentioned before we won’t receive as many new auto enrollees under the low income subsidy program in 2013 as we did in 2012.
We won’t have the same type of sales and premium growth we had in 2012.
We expect a decrease of approximately 5% to 7% in our Part D premiums for 2013 due primarily to price competition in employer group market that we discussed previously.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Gary.
To complete the insurance operations administrative expenses were $43.9 million for the quarter 8% more than a year ago quarter.
The increase is in line with our expectations and is primarily due to the addition of Family Heritage.
As a percentage of premium administrative expenses in 2013 should be around the same level as 2012.
Now I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $56 million a decline of $8 million or 13% 6% on a per-share basis from the first quarter of 2012.
Sequentially excess investment income was essentially level with the fourth quarter Due to lower new money rates and the possible calls of hybrid securities we expect excess investment income in 2013 to decrease approximately 7% to 8%.
However reflecting the impact of share repurchases we expect 2013 excess investment income per share to be down around 2% compared to 2012.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets are $12.7 billion including $12.1 billion of fixed maturities and amortized cost.
Of the fixed maturities $11.5 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A minus and below investment grade bonds are $573 million compared to $585 million at the end of the last quarter and $723 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds with fixed maturities is 4.7% compared to 6.5% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of around 3.5 times the percentage of big bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains of fixed maturities is 17% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus the same as a year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1.5 billion compared to $873 million a year ago.
Regarding investment yield in the first quarter we invested $387 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and utility sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 4.31% an average rating of BBB plus and an average life of 27 years.
Over the last five quarters the yield on new investments has averaged 4.3%.
For the entire portfolio the first quarter yield was 6% down 47 basis points from the 6.47% yield in the first quarter 2012.
Of this decline in yield 14 basis points is due to the addition of Family Heritage and 8 basis points is due to the $300 million of bank hybrids called in the third quarter of 2012.
On the last call we indicated that we held approximately $225 million of bank hybrids that we expected to be called in 2013.
In the first quarter $66 million were called leaving $159 million of those securities in the portfolio as of March 31.
As of today we have not received a notice of intent to call on any of these securities.
However if all $159 million of these securities are called and assuming a 4.25% reinvestment rate the lost annual income related to these calls will be approximately $3 million after-tax.
On past analyst calls we have discussed in detail the current low interest rate environment and the impact of a lower or longer rate scenario.
As discussed our concern regarding an extended period of low interest rates continues to be the impact on earnings not the GAAP or statutory balance sheets.
As long as we are in this low interest-rate environment the portfolio yield will continue to decline and thus pressure excess investment income.
However the decline will be slowed by the fact that on average only 2% to 3% of fixed maturities will run off each year over the next five years and that assumes the calls of the bank hybrids previously discussed.
Assuming a new money rate of 4.25% for next five years we estimate that the portfolio yield exiting the 2017 would be around 5.55%.
Assuming a 4% new money rate the portfolio yield would be around 5 basis points lower or 5.5%.
At these rates we would earn a small spread on the net policy liabilities while earning the full 550 to 555 basis points on our equity less the interest required to service our debt.
In either scenario we will still generate substantial excess investment income.
Now I will turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the first quarter we spent $90 million to buy 1.6 million Torchmark shares.
So far in April we have used another $20 million to buy another 345 000 shares.
So for the full year through today we have spent $110 million of parent company cash to acquire 1.9 million shares.
The available liquid assets at the parent consist of assets on hand plus the expected free cash flow from operations.
As we’ve said before free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from its subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
The parent started the first quarter with liquid assets of $147 million including $94 million that has been invested to redeem our senior notes that mature on August 1 2013.
This leaves approximately $53 million of liquid assets available for other corporate purposes.
Assuming shareholder dividends remain at the $0.17 per share level approved by the Board in its February meeting we expect free cash flow for all of 2013 to be around $360 million.
Along with the $53 million of liquid assets available as of the beginning of the year the parent will have around $413 million of available liquid assets for the full year.
As of today after deducting the $110 million of year-to-date share repurchases the parent will have around $303 million available between now and the end of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of the remainder of the fund.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last three years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
At December 31 2012 consolidated RBC was 347% and adjusted capital was approximately $95 million in excess of that required for the target of 325% consolidated ratio.
Now before I turn the call back to Larry I’d like to briefly make just a couple of comments relating to the addition of Family Heritage.
On our last call we indicated our expectation for Family Heritage to contribute between $0.16 and $0.20 per share to our 2013 net operating earnings after tax incremental financing costs.
At this time we believe Family Heritage’s contribution to our operating earnings per share to be close to the midpoint of that range.
Those are my comments.
I’ll now turn the call back to Larry.
Before I give guidance I went to be sure that I correctly stated the Health premiums and Health net sales for Family Heritage.
The Health premiums were $46 million and Health net sales were $11 million.
For 2013 we expect our net operating income will be within a range of $5.50 per share to $5.75 per share.
This guidance incorporates the underwriting improvements Gary discussed earlier.
Those are our comments for this morning.
We will now open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will hear first from Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
I have a couple of questions.
First on American Income if I look at life insurance sales they’ve actually gotten weaker the last few quarters even though the agent count has actually been growing.
So wanted to just get an idea on what’s been driving that and what drove the decline this quarter.
And Direct Response I think you mentioned you expect mid to single-digit sales growth for this year.
If we look at the last several quarters sales even there have over the last five quarters gotten progressively worse and the economy is still the way it was two or three months ago.
So it doesn’t seem like – it seems like it’s trended in the wrong direction.
But what gives you the comfort that sales for this year will be within what your range is? Well Jimmy as you know at American Income sales are directly related to the number of agents in the field.
And if you look at the agent count of American Income at the end of the fourth quarter was 5 176.
At the end of the first-quarter the agent count was up 5 612 but the increase did not occur until the latter part of the quarter.
What’s driving the surge towards the end of the quarter is that we changed our mid-level manager compensation in the fourth quarter of 2012.
And we did that to reward increased agent retention rather than simply agent recruitment.
This change resulted in both the focus and the compensation for our field managers; that’s why we’ve seen an improvement in agent retention in March it’s taken several months for that change to be embraced by the field.
I guess in the short run the compensation change probably hurt our recruiting efforts in the fourth and the first quarter; over the longer period of time we believe the compensation change will result in an increased agent count.
With respect to Globe Life our confidence that we’ll have single-digit growth this year is based on our initiatives for 2013.
Those will include rate adjustments and higher face amount offering on adult products.
Our test results for the rates and face amounts have been positive and that’s what we believe will drive the growth for Globe Life and Accident Insurance company.
Okay and if I could just ask one more on Liberty National the agent count had actually been recovering a little bit and then declined this quarter anything specific that drove that? I think what drove it this quarter is that at the end of the fourth quarter beginning of the first quarter middle management’s focus was on year-end open enrollments on our worksite division; that takes their focus off recruiting in the fourth quarter and created a slight decline in the agent count.
And you still expect it to grow over the next few quarters though? Yes our guidance for agent growth for the year is we believe at the end of 2013 at Liberty National the agent count should be between 1 750 and 1 850 agents.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll hear next from Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
I’m just following up on Liberty National could you just elaborate on what gives you the confidence that you can hit your updated full year sales target there and then longer-term when do you think you get back to double-digit sales growth in that channel? I think double-digit sales growth at Liberty National will come fairly slowly.
I think it would be another 16 18 20 months before we have that kind of sales growth.
Two changes occurred at Liberty National this quarter.
The first is a systems change and we just changed the work week business is now turned on Monday for the previous week rather than Friday afternoon.
This encourages our agent to sell products over the weekend.
We find at American Income about 40% of our new business is written on the weekend; although we don’t anticipate a 40% increase in sales at Liberty we do think this will have a positive response.
But secondly we’re looking at some geographic expansion.
We’re planning in the next 90 days to open 4 new offices in areas outside our traditional markets Sarah.
Virginia Louisiana Texas Oklahoma are likely to be expansion sites for these offices.
Sarah I might add that we’ve given guidance of 4% to 8% growth for the year in sales at Liberty and we had a 4% decline in the first quarter.
We’ll see double-digit growth in the second half of the year but that’s based on low comparisons from the prior year.
I agree with Larry for us to sustain 10% growth it’s going to take a longer period of time.
But a key to that was just what Larry mentioned the opening of new offices in more urban areas where there’s more – a higher population where there’s more opportunity to recruit agents as well as have customers.
Okay great thanks.
And then just on American Income and Direct sales how should we be thinking about the trajectory of those sales as we go through the rest of the year particularly given your comments about some of the changes of manager compensation at American Income? I think the trajectory of the sales at American Income would be high single digit in the second quarter.
And you’d probably see double-digit sales growth in the third and possibly into the fourth quarter.
But for the year again our guidance is we’re going to see sales of 10% to 14% and we’ll see agent growth continuing throughout 2013.
Direct Response in the second quarter we’re looking for low single-digit increase with double-digit increases in the second half of the year.
Great.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you.
And we’ll hear next from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hey good morning everybody.
Question I want to ask is on the Direct Response the initiatives that you’re taking.
You mentioned premium rates Larry my assumption here would be that you’re looking to lower them? Yes.
What we do with testing is we try different premium rates and based our own experience we know that if we lower certain rates we’ll have higher response rates and so you’ll write a more profitable block of business.
Okay.
Does that – well that’s an interesting thing.
So would we assume that – obviously it’s lower rates you would think that the margin would be lower than what you wrote in the first quarter.
But then you just said more profitable business that’s a little bit confusing? Well the lower rates we get a better response rate and so we issue more policies.
So we – although the premium rate for policy is down the issue of a greater number of policies gives us more revenue to spread our acquisition costs over.
Okay.
So lower loss ratio but better expense ratio.
And then on the higher face values is that a – are you raising the minimum or are you just adding on top of that? We’re adding on top of that.
Okay.
Talking about a larger face amount that’s offered to the customer.
And where are you now that ceiling and where you going? We’re planning to roll this out at the end of May if I understand your question you’re asking where we’re going? This will be rolled out at the end of May the first part of June.
Is that your question Steven? No no.
I meant like the face value today is X and you’re going to Y the maximum.
On the high side for us today it’s about $50 000 so here we think we can move up toward $100 000.
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
Very interesting.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll hear next from Eric Aboaf with Citi.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple things I guess.
On Liberty just one thing if you could give maybe a little bit more color on the reception of the changes that you’ve made kind of over the past year to make the business more akin to American Income? And kind of how have you seen maybe the productivity changing since making those changes? Well the change at Liberty to make it more like American Income is a variable cost model.
Starting in 2012 all the agents we hired are independent contractors.
As we promote agents through the system they become middle management they become branch managers they’re paid strictly on commission.
And so it’s quite a different system Eric but they are really entrepreneurs and they’re running their business.
And the other system change is certainly the recruiting systems have changed they’re like American Income.
Another big change has been the introduction of the laptop and we’re installing the entire process into Liberty National agencies.
It’ll take all of 2013 to install that laptop system.
The laptop is not just the technology of you’re selling with a laptop it changes your recruiting systems your lead systems it changes your training systems.
So it’s quite a system change that you’re introducing into that agency.
At the end of the process we think it’s a much stronger process; you have better data to manage with you have stronger sales presentations by the agents and because they’re better trained it helps productivity because you’ll have a higher face per sale at the end of the process.
Okay.
And then just one other general question.
You’ve mentioned the impact of the economy and the payroll tax credit specifically related to Direct Response.
But given your target customer base kind of across channels do you think there’s any impact from the economy more broadly on sales trends through your agent sold business as well? I think it’s less impact on the agent sold business because the agent is sitting across the kitchen table explaining that need.
With Direct Response there’s less contact; you’re reaching simply through the mail.
We don’t think in the long-term it’ll have a negative effect upon the sales but it may be more contacts are needed to complete the sale of the Direct Response system.
Okay so you’re not seeing the pressure on the wallet of the individuals leading to a tougher sales environment for the agents is it still need driven? It’s need driven – as we look at our laptop data I’m not seeing a difference in closing rates that comes through that laptop data.
Okay thank you.
That’s helpful.
And we’ll take our next question comes from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Thanks good morning.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about conservation.
You started these initiatives a few years ago it’s clear that you’re realizing some results.
I was wondering if you can give us a sense of – have you kind of fully at this point achieved what you thought you would have achieved or is there still maybe more upside there? And then I’m also wondering whether the economy negatively is impacting conservation just as it is in sales in some channels and whether if that eases at some point whether that could provide some upside? Well first of all Jeff this year we will have about $250 million of lapsed premium; we’ll conserve around $36 million of that premium and I think last year was around $30 million and the year before that when we first got started it was less than $15 million.
I don’t think we’ve reached the max.
We as a matter fact in looking forward we see it increasing.
I don’t know if it will increase a great deal more.
At the $36 million this year we’re conserving 14% of the lapses and we may see that percentage go up but not a great deal.
As far as from the economy side I would think an improving economy would help in the program but we really don’t have any feel for right now what the impact of the economy is.
Okay.
And then on the risk-based capital you’re somewhat above your 325% target.
As you pull ordinary dividends will that tend to draw you down towards the 325% or is there may be at some point the potential to contemplate a small extraordinary dividend? Gary you want me to take that? Yeah go ahead.
Yeah as we – Jeff as we do take out some of the dividends over the course of the year that will tend to bring it down some.
Our initial projections show a decrease in that excess or shows a little bit of a decrease in that excess.
At this point in time we are not – we have no immediate plans to distribute any of that as we take a look at the funding needs for the various growth initiatives that we have down at the subsidiary levels.
We probably should have a little bit better idea of that later on here in the year.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll hear next from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Great.
Thank you.
I just wanted to follow up again on sales just a couple more details.
First American Income I just want to make sure I understand this correctly – with the middle management kind of disruption I guess or distraction that happened with the compensation shift in the fourth quarter.
Is that a situation where you changed the way they were paid and that caused them to not focus as much on recruiting or it caused them to leave and now that you’ve kind of solidified that base of middle managers they can focus on recruiting again or is it just they’re now more focused on recruiting because that’s how they’re getting paid? Well the change in compensation is to reward the middle manager for the length of service of the agent.
So the compensation change is that – part of that compensation is based on the retention of the new agent – we’re trying to extend the agent life from 3 or 4 months to 4 5 and 6 months.
I think that changes the focus of the middle manager a little bit because you’re not so concerned about an agent in the first 3 months you’re concerned about an agent in the first 6 7 or 8 months.
So that’s the intent but anytime you change compensation of an agency and change focus of the agency it generally has a negative short-term impact on recruiting.
Okay.
So it wasn’t that you lost these individuals it’s just that they weren’t as focused on kind of near term recruiting and that kind of hit sales because there weren’t as many? Randy the real issue we’re trying to address is we’re not concerned with losing middle-management so much as losing entry-level agents.
And since we changed compensations we changed our systems.
We’re trying to encourage better training and better retention of the agents.
Yeah in addition to that another change to go along with that is that we were probably promoting agents too early in the past.
And so now we’ve lengthened the time from which an agent a new agent can get promoted to entry-level management.
And that’ll make them a better manager and that will help in the training and recruiting of the new agents and the bonus we have will help with the retention of new agents.
But again the key is not only recruiting agents but getting them to stay longer.
Right.
Great.
And Randy specifically what we did is in the past we were picking agents and putting them into entry level management sometimes early as 15 to 30 days.
In the fourth quarter we corrected that and it’s now – they’re not promoted until a 90 day period.
That allows a new agent to focus entirely on sales field experience in their first 90 days.
And we’re seeing a positive result of that.
In March we saw a greater number of managers that were successfully recruiting and supervising new agents when we compare that to March of 2012.
Okay.
So the March trend that’s better is the recruiting effort not necessarily the sales effort yet.
Well if you have more agents you have greater sales so of course that goes hand-in-hand.
What we’re really seeing in March is better retention of the new agents and we’re seeing a greater recruiting effort in the middle management.
And it didn’t translate into production.
I think Larry mentioned earlier the agent growth came late in the quarter.
70% of the agent growth in the first quarter really came in the last two to three weeks of the quarter.
So we should see the impact starting next quarter.
You said 70% of it was in last two or three weeks? Yes.
Seven zero okay wow okay.
And then just one more on Globe.
Can you just remind us of the test? The test results you run in Globe like how broad are those? And how good a predictor have those been in the past of how those are going to perform? Very good predictors.
At any point in time Chuck Hudson and his group are testing five six seven different tests.
And based on those test results they have a high confidence level that when they roll out that full program that the full program will have the same results as the test results.
What’s been a little different is some of these response rates have been lower in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
We think those response rates will return to normal and be reflective of the test results that we’re seeing.
Okay.
One more if I can the short-term debt is going up on the balance sheet.
And this is unrelated to sales but are you all using a little bit more commercial paper.
Is that what we’re seeing with short-term debt? Yes during the first quarter we did have an increase in the commercial paper which is not atypical for the first quarter of the year as we’re awaiting for the dividends to be able to come in from the insurance subsidiaries.
So we do need some of the – an increase in the short-term.
At the current time it’s back down to $233 million as of today.
Was just kind of a little bit of a timing thing there at the end of the quarter as far as the actual balance is concerned.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll hear next from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
Good morning McKinney.
Wanted to talk about Family Heritage it looks like you lowered your premium assumption for the year but raised your margin what are the dynamics that are going? These weren’t big changes and it looks like if you multiply it out it’s $0.5 million more of underwriting income if you take the midpoint of the ranges.
But what’s driving the premiums down a little bit and the margin up? Have to drill the sales down a little bit.
Let’s talk about sales activity first.
Sales activity in the first quarter was less than projected because we had a decline in recruiting activity early in the quarter.
If you look at the agent numbers actually we ended the quarter with slightly higher agent numbers.
We didn’t see that in January into early February.
Yeah and Bob I think really as far as the premiums the bigger thing is is that I think our projection was a little higher in the fourth quarter than it should’ve been.
We just have better numbers to work with.
Frank why don’t you talk about the changes in the margin or the premiums? Yeah and part of that Gary goes hand-in-hand part of the decrease in the premiums was a improvement if you will in the modeling given that the newness of the block of business and the acquisition still looking at getting the modeling of that business out so it resulted a little bit in a lower premium.
At the end of the day we have a little bit of a lower obligation margin on it as well.
So the margin we expect to still be slight improvement in that even though the net underwriting income is approximately the same as what we had originally projected.
You’re seeing that margin move from a little under 19% to somewhere in between 19% and 20%.
Okay.
Fairly stable going forward.
I guess I understand that.
It looks like the underlying margin in Health widened 100 bps year-over-year this has been a trend that’s been in place despite the fact you had more 20% margin in the mix for the Family Heritage which while it’s more than we thought it was going to be it’s less than your total.
So it looks like there’s something positive going on in the rest of the book on the margin front.
Anything worth noting or just a blip in the quarter? Well I think one thing worth noting is in the Liberty National Health side if you compare first quarter this year to last year the claims were down significantly.
First quarter 2012 we had – the ratio was 58.4%; that was the high for the year.
We ended the year at policy obligations of 57% but still the first quarter this year is low at 55.5%.
Part of that is maybe seasonal but the major part of that is that we’ve got a large cancer block that we’re having improving claims experience.
So for the year it looks like that ratio should hold somewhere between 55% and 57% which is lower than last year which means that for Liberty we could pick up 1 percentage point in the margin for this year for Liberty Health.
There was – on the American Income Health there was – we had lower claims there but that’s something that was mainly because we had a high first quarter last year.
It’s really the Liberty National Health where we saw the biggest improvement in the margin.
Okay.
So I guess what you’re saying is the Health margin in Q1 ex-Family Heritage was a little bit better than normalized because of LNL but still better than you thought it was going to be too.
Right.
Somewhere in between where you thought and this quarter’s the right underlying margin.
Yes.
I got it.
And last question a lot of noise and crosscurrents going on in Medicare Advantage and we’re sitting around waiting for Med submarket to improve as this gets depopulated but I guess we keep moving the ball down the field.
Is there anything really important we need to know thinking about...? Brian why don’t to try and answer Bob’s question? Yes sir.
We’re looking at numerous proposals that are – that come out it seems like almost weekly from Washington from both sides of aisle as to how to change restructure Medicare.
There’s so many proposals that have come about that it’s really been difficult to project what they’re likely to settle on.
One week it seems like the two sides are merging together and then the next they’ll be farther apart.
It is something that we’re tracking along with the funding constraints for Medicare Advantage.
I think there’s been some noise and news on that in the last week or so as well.
So it’s something we look at regularly but at this point it’s just not pinned down on what’s going to happen.
Okay so we’re at least a year away from an improving – a dramatically improving Med sub environment or could it be closer than that? No I think we think it’d be a year away because additional enrollments would probably start next October.
Right.
Between now and next October we don’t see much movement.
And in the fourth quarter we should have a clearer picture of what’s going to happen with Medicare Advantage enrollments.
Right.
Okay.
I want my candy now but I guess I can wait a little bit.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll take our next question from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Thank you.
Good morning.
On the Med Supp sales on that same topic you had good momentum in the fourth quarter not quite as much momentum here in Q1.
I don’t know if you touched on this earlier in the call but any meaningful changes there? Mark I think what drives the Med Supp sales in the first quarter and somewhat in the fourth quarter are the group sales.
If you look at the individual sales in the first quarter I think those had strong growth it was the group sales that were off.
And I think in prior calls someone described it as kind of lumpy events that we tend to either get groups or we don’t get groups so it comes in bunches or it comes in lumps.
I think for the year we’re projecting a 10% increase in Med Supp sales.
And we’ll have a better idea of that actually in the fourth quarter because that’s when most of those group sales come through for Med Supp.
Got you.
And then you had provided an estimate for the year-end head count at Liberty National.
Can you provide the same sort of a forecast for American Income? 100 agents to 6 000 agents.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Paul Sarran with Evercore Partners.
Hi good morning.
Morning Paul.
Think you mentioned at Direct Response the margin on your sales this quarter was 1% to 2% better than the margin on sales in the quarter a year ago.
How does that compare to margin on the overall in-force? I don’t think I have that number in front of me.
It was higher than the overall in-force but I can’t tell you how much.
Okay.
And then just a quick questions on buybacks.
How does the stock price or the valuation of your stock influence your thinking in terms of use of cash for buybacks or timing? Yeah Paul – go ahead Gary.
Well first of all – okay I was going to say Paul first of all on an overall basis we’re constantly looking at what the shares are trading for versus what we think the value of the stock is.
And although our PE is improved especially over the 2008-2009 period we still think – buy.
Now as far as on a quarterly basis as far as our share repurchases I know years ago we used to concentrate more on the first part of the year.
Our thoughts over the last couple years is really to spread it out over the year.
We spent $90 million the first quarter this year versus $90 million last year.
One example I’ll give you is we went to second quarter of 2012 we doubled up and spent $180 million that’s because there was a softness in the market price during the quarter.
Our present plans are concerned with the stock price as it is today.
We’ll spread the rest of our share repurchases fairly evenly over the year.
However we have the ability to react quickly and if the share price does fall at any point in time we can step in and buy more.
All right.
Thanks.
And we’ll take our next question from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks very much.
I just had one question regarding your Health business.
I hear or I’ve heard that the Health business margins were modestly better than you expected in the quarter but premiums are not growing and it seems that the in-force is not growing at least that’s what appears to be the case.
Would you agree with that characterization or disagree? And more importantly what is the future of your Health business? Do you see it as a growing business over time? That’s my one question.
Thank you.
Let’s address the last part of the question first.
In terms of our future in the Health business potentially in this segment we’re talking about Part D.
I think we see that as an opportunistic market.
We are currently strong for 2014.
And it’s hard to predict or we don’t plan on growth in Part D necessarily.
Our non-Medicare business we certainly see growth there with the addition of Family Heritage; as we grow that agency that business will grow.
Additionally as Liberty National grows in the Worksite we’ll see a growth in those Health sales.
For Medicare Supplement as we talked earlier in the call it’s difficult to see what the future of Medicare Supplement is.
It’s tied somewhat to Medicare Advantage disenrollments.
And if we had a clearer picture of the actual disenrollments it’d be easier for us to predict how much our Medicare Supplement business will grow in the individual market.
Certainly a great deal of our growth through Medicare Supplement has come through our Group business and we continue to try and grow our Group Medicare Supplement business.
Eric also I’ll add that one thing that’s contributed to the decline in premiums over the last 4 or 5 years we had a very large hospital block in Liberty National that we stopped selling business that business has been running off and it’s just about gone.
So that drag won’t be there going forward.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I just wanted to revisit the discussion on the bank hybrids.
It kind of went pretty quick on what was called what hasn’t been called how much is left.
And I just also wanted to see if you could just tie that in to what’s assumed in your guidance range? Okay John we – coming into the quarter we had $225 million of bank hybrids that were likely to be called.
We have some more but they’re either – they’re not callable or they’re may call calls which we’re not concerned about.
Agee</strong> Got it.
Yeah.
There’s $225 million that we’re concerned about being called.
During the quarter $66 million of those bonds were called...
Agee</strong> Okay.
And that leaves us $159 million of exposure.
And as I mentioned earlier we haven’t received any notice that these bonds are going to be called as of the current day.
We’re a little surprised that they haven’t been but we’ll wait and see.
For guidance purposes we’re running different scenarios and within the range we considered all of them being called to none of them being called.
But as I mentioned I think if all of them got called the after-tax impact on an annual basis would be $3 million.
So built into the guidance is somewhere between $0 and $3 million.
Agee</strong> Perfect.
Everything else has been asked and answered.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yeah.
Hi thanks a lot.
Just one quick question on Liberty and the margins there.
In terms of the new office expansion is this going to have any impact to margins that we should watch out for in the second quarter or is it all passed along to the branch offices? This is a variable cost model so as we open those branches the branch manager is responsible for the office rent the leads any office expenses are borne by the agency not the company.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And just in terms of the 4% to 8% of sales expansion how much do you attribute to these – to this new expansion versus more organic growth? More of the growth will be organic growth because it takes a few months for a new office to recruit and build up its sales force.
But it’s really long-term growth we’re talking about as the need to expand geographically outside our traditional markets.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
We’ll take our next question from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Yeah most addressed.
I guess the comments you guys made in terms of the potential to accelerate deployment if there’s a softness in the price would that be the same kind of mechanism that we saw last year and then I guess some in 1Q in terms of the commercial paper borrowing and then getting the dividends up maybe in the subsequent quarters? Yes...
Or do you have enough capital at the subs to do that? I guess on the quarterly basis.
Well the thing is what we’re – the dividends that are coming up to the companies or – are coming through the companies are based on last year’s earnings.
We know we’re going to get those dividends.
We also know the timing if we want to accelerate repurchases you’re right we would probably use commercial paper but that would be very short term because that paper would only be outstanding until we got the dividend money up to pay that off.
And that’s what we did last year is we borrowed a little extra in the second quarter to expand our share repurchases and then the latter part of the year we didn’t buy as much and we used the funds to pay back the short-term debt.
Yes okay.
And then the Family Heritage acquisition.
I mean from an M&amp;A standpoint can you comment at all in terms of kind of appetite and if there’s anything else out there or are you kind of just focused really on this acquisition now? Well we would like to find another Family Heritage maybe a little bit bigger.
We’re – our approach hasn’t changed.
We’ve always been looking for a company that has controlled distribution that’s selling in the middle income market.
And although Family Heritage sells Health we prefer Life.
But still we’re very happy with Family Heritage.
We’ll continue to look but as we said before there’s just not many of these type companies out there.
And Family Heritage was a little bit of a surprise to us and we’re glad we were able to get it.
We’re looking but it’s an ongoing process but it’s tough because there’s just not that many type of companies out there on the market.
Yeah Chris one thing I would just add to that is that it really is key for us to be looking for somebody with that captive distribution and that’s – a lot of the opportunities that come across to us do not have that type of distribution.
They’ll have an independent distribution associated with them and not something that we’re trying to expand into.
Okay.
And then the last question just in terms of – I guess the Supplement last quarter within Family Heritage you guys had a different agent count you guys had 1 160 versus kind of the restated number for year-end this year of 702.
Can you just talk a little bit about what the difference is and why the restatement of agent count? I think it was – this is Larry it was restated because we’d gotten better information from the company as to what are active agents and we try to have a uniform definition among the Torchmark companies how we define an active agent.
There was really no change.
We haven’t had departures from the agency.
What’s really changed is the definition of an active agent.
Okay.
So that kind of 40% difference is just agents that are actively selling the Family Heritage product? We’ve changed the definition so that it’s an agent that’s actively sold in the last 60 days.
That’s consistent among the companies.
Okay all right.
Thank you very much.
And at this time we do have one question remaining the queue.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our next question from Vincent Lui with Morningstar.
Hi good morning.
Just a quick follow-up on Direct Response.
If you look at the statistics you basically achieved like 40% of sales form and out mailer and insert media piece.
And about 60% after six months.
And the 60% stayed pretty safe over time.
And just curious to hear your thoughts in terms of the impact of the Direct Response initiative you mentioned on the pace of sales generation? Any change to the statistics going forward as you can see? If you’re asking about our new initiatives and the pace at which it’ll increase production we’re really – as far as the rate adjustments and the higher pace now so it won’t be rolled out till mid to late second quarter.
So it’ll be the second half of the year before we see an impact on the sales.
Okay.
But does the pace really matter from an accounting standpoint or just – I mean just some interesting statistics you keep track of? I’m not sure I understand the question.
Well so the distribution here is about 40% in four months 50% in five months and then 60% after six months right? And then I would assume the 40% in the second half of the year as the effectiveness of the insert basically loses effectiveness over time.
When you have this new initiatives you probably change the distribution somewhat.
And – but from a sales and from a sales recognition standpoint if you look at the whole year doesn’t really change a thing does it? As far as adding the new initiatives I don’t think it would change.
I think you’re talking about the percentages of the lag time on which we receive new business.
Right.
Yeah I don’t think this will change those lag times.
I mean these products aren’t so different.
It’s just that what I’m saying is it’s going to provide additional production just because we’re providing products either right when – before or we’re replacing them.
So it’s incremental production but as far as a lag I think it will probably be about the same.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those are our comments and we’ll talk to you again next quarter.
And this does conclude today’s Torchmark Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2012 10-K and any subsequent forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the second quarter was $133 million or $0.42 per share a per share increase of 9% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $134 million or $44 per share also a 9% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity as of June 30 was 15.6% and our book value per share was $36.73 a 2% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share remained flat $41.19.
In our life insurance operations the premium revenue grew 5% to $475 million and life underwriting margins increased 9% to $136 million.
The growth in underwriting margin exceeded the premium growth due to lower amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the deferral of certain great response and acquisition costs that previously have not been deferred.
Lower amortization rate is a result of improvements and consistency attributable to our ongoing conservation program and is incorporated in our guidance for the full year.
Brian will discuss the deferrable within the net cost in just a few minutes.
Finishing life net life sales increased 2% to $91 million.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D increased 23% to $280 million.
And health underwriting margin grew 25% to $50 million.
Improvement in health premium and underwriting margin was due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage.
Health sales increased 88% to $24 million also due primarily to the acquisition of Family Heritage.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on insurance operations.
Thank you Gary.
First let’s discuss American Income.
At American Income life premiums were up 9% to $178 million and life underwriting margin was also up 5% to $57 million.
Net life sales increased 2% for the quarter to $41 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the second quarter was 5 540 up 4% from a year ago but down 1% during the quarter.
Our net sales increased less than we expected for the second quarter we 1 5.49 (inaudible).
We’re pleased the first quarter sales decline has reversed I believe this agency is moving in the right direction.
American Income has had a long history of stair-step growth and continued adjustments have always been needed to ensure long term agency growth.
We continue to make changes to address new agent retention and agent productivity.
And we’re adding new SGA’s in certain existing territories.
We have large offices with solid growth rates.
We expect sales growth for the full year 2013 to range from 3% to 6%.
Now Direct Response.
And our direct response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 7% to $169 million and life underwriting margin increased to 24% to $43 million.
Net life sales were up 3% to $40 million.
Response rates began to improve during the second quarter and as we mentioned last quarter we’re confident that our new initiatives will help further increase response rates in 2013.
We introduced rate adjustments and higher face amount offerings on adult products late in the second quarter.
We expect mid-single-digit sales growth for the full year 2013.
Now Liberty National.
At Liberty National life premiums declined to 2% to $69 million while life underwriting was down 1% to $17 million.
Net life sales grew 2% to $8 million while net health sales declined 5% to $3 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at a 1 283 down 5% from a year ago and down 7% during the quarter.
While the agent count was down we continue to make progress with the turnaround at Liberty National as we’ve said many times this is going to be a slow process.
The changes we had made have begun to improve agent productivity as life sales increased during the second quarter despite the decline in agent count.
With regard to the agent count geographic expansion into more urban areas is the key to growth of Liberty National.
We opened four new offices in the second quarter and we plan to open three more this year.
We expect this to generate long term agent and sales growth.
Sales growth is expected to range from 2% to 5% for the full year 2013.
Now Family Heritage.
Health premiums were $48 million and health net sales were $11 million.
As we previously indicated we intend to grow this agency through geographic expansion and implementation of our internet recruiting program.
For 2013 we expect health premium income to range from $189 million to $193 million with margins as a percentage of health premium of about 18% to 20%.
We expect sales of approximately $46 million to $48 million in 2013.
Our sales guidance is slightly lower than before this agency continues to show steady and sequential growth in the agent count and health sales for being integrated into Torchmark.
Medicare Part D.
Premium revenue from Medicare Part D declined 6% to $73 million our underwriting margin decreased 1% to $8 million.
Part D sales for the quarter fell 63% to $8 million due to the decrease in low-income subsidized enrollees for 2013.
As we’ve mentioned before we aren’t receiving as many new auto-enrollees under the low-income subsidy program in 2013 as we did in 2012 so we don’t have the type of sales and premium growth we had in 2012.
We expect a decrease of approximately 5% to 7% percent in our Part D premiums for 2013 due primarily to price competition in the employer group market that we’ve discussed previously.
I would now turn the call back to Gary.
To complete the discussion of insurance operations administrative expenses were $44.1 million for the quarter 11% more than the year ago.
The increase is in line with our expectations and is due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage.
As a percentage of premium administrative expenses in 2013 should be around the same level as 2012.
Now I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $55 million a decline of $8 million or 12%; 8% on a per share basis from the second quarter of 2012.
These to clients due to lower new money yield and the call of $467 million to hybrid securities since June 30 of 2012.
For the full year 2013 we expect the decline in excess investment income to be approximately 7% to 8%.
However reflecting the impact of share repurchases we expect 2013 excess investment income per share to be down around 3% compared to 2012.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets were $12.8 billion including $12.2 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Of the fixed maturities $11.6 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A- and below investment grade bonds are $585 million compared to $764 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.8% compared to 6.9% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3½ times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 17% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A- compared to BBB+ a year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $652 million compared to $1.2 billion a year ago.
The decrease in unrealized gains is due to primarily to recent increases in market interest rates rather than credit concerns.
Regarding investment yield in the second quarter we invested $305 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and utility sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 4.07% an average rating of A- and an average life of 26 years.
The new money yield decrease is by the increase in treasure rates during the second quarter due to the following reasons.
First on a one time basis we invested $43 million for Family Heritage in securities with shorter maturities than usual with asset liability management considerations.
Had this money been invested longer term the average yield on total acquisitions for the quarter would have been around 4.2%.
Also contributing to a lower new money rates is that most of our investments we made early in quarter the correction rates were actually lower than they were in the first quarter.
For the entire portfolio the second quarter yield was 5.95% down 48 basis points from the 6.43% yield in the second quarter 2012.
Of this decline in yield 14 basis points was due to the addition of Family Heritage and 13 basis was due to the $467 million of bank hybrids called since June 30 of 2012.
On the last call we indicated that we still have approximately earned $59 million of bank hybrids expected to be called in 2013.
In the second quarter $63 million were called.
In addition we’ve determined another $20 million is now unlikely to be called leaving $76 million of those bank hybrids that we expect to be called.
As of today we have now received a notice of intent to call on any of these securities.
However if all $76 million of these securities are called the lost annual income would be approximately $1 million after tax.
On past analyst calls we have discussed the details of the current low interest rate environment and the impact of a “lower for longer” rate scenario.
As discussed our concern regarding an extended period of low interest rates is an impact on earnings not the GAAP or statutory balance sheets.
Even so Torchmark would continue to earn a substantial excess investment income in an extended lower interest rate environment.
We are encouraged by the recent increase in treasure rates due to the positive impact that higher interest rates will have on our excess investment income.
Even certain interest rates buy to be beneficial as we have very little this intermediation risk and we’re not concerned about substantial interest rate driven unrealized losses in our fixed maturity portfolio.
As we have said many times we have both the intent more importantly the ability to hold our bonds in maturities.
Now I will turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets: In the second quarter we spent $90 million to buy 1.43 million Torchmark shares at an average cost of $62.77 per share.
For the full year through June 30th we have spent $180 million dollars of parent company cash to acquire three million shares at an average cost of $59.26 per share.
The available liquid assets at the parent consists of assets on hand plus the expected free cash flow from operations.
As we’ve said before free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from its subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
The Parent entered the second quarter with liquid assets of $138 million including $94 million that has been invested to redeem our senior notes that mature on August 1st 2013.
Assuming shareholder dividends remain at the current level we expect free cash flow for the remainder of 2013 to be around $206 million.
Along with the $138 million of liquid assets available as of June 30th the parent will have around $344 million of available liquid assets for the remainder of the year.
As previously noted $94 million of these assets will be used to redeem our senior notes on August 1st and we expect to utilize approximately $20 million in other financing activities.
Leaving the Parent with around $230 million of liquid assets for the remainder of the year.
Of this amount we expect to retain approximately $50 million at the Parent company.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of the remainder of the funds.
Now Regarding RBC at our Insurance Subsidiaries.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last three years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
Now before I turn the call back to Larry I would like to briefly make just a couple of comments relating to the change in the treatment of certain direct response acquisition expenses.
During the second quarter we began deferring direct response advertising costs related to our internet campaign.
As we’ve discussed on prior calls direct response advertising cost quality for deferral treatment provided certain requirements in the accounting literature are met.
One of these requirements is that we maintain detailed historical data to support a probable future benefit of the advertising.
We initiated our direct response advertising through the web around 2007.
Those at the time of our adoption to new accounting guidance related to the treatment of acquisition expenses in 2011.
We did not have sufficient historical data to adequately support deferral of this internet related costs.
We have been building on that data since 2011 and now have developed sufficient historical data to firmly support the deferral of these costs going forward.
As a result of this change non-deferred to acquisition expenses related to direct response decreased approximately $4 million to $1.6 million in the second quarter.
Or do about 1% of our direct response premium.
For the third and fourth quarters we anticipate that the amount of non-deferred acquisition expenses for direct response will be approximately the same as in the second quarter resulting in approximately $12 million less in non-deferred acquisition expenses for the full year of 2013.
This reduction will be offset by an increase in amortization expense over the year of approximately $1 million due to the addition of deferred expenses resulting in a net $11million reduction in total direct response acquisition expenses.
For the full year 2013 we estimate that our underwriting margin for direct response will be approximately 25% as compared to the 23% in 2012.
Overall the effect of the change net of the increased amortization and net of income taxes was to increase our second quarter earnings per share by approximately $2.05 and has been reflected in our revised guidance.
Those are my comments I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2013 we expect our net operating income will be within a range $5.60 per share to $5.75 per share.
Those are our comments for this morning.
We will now open it up for questions.
Hi good morning.
First I had a question on just the agent count it had begun to recover and this quarter dropped at both American Income and Liberty National Liberty is actually been down for two consecutive quarters.
So the first one is just what’s going on there what’s driving that.
And then secondly are you still comfortable that you could achieve your sales growth targets if the agent count doesn’t begin to pick up? And then another question just on your expectations for Part D enrollments in 2014 and what type of products are you planning and now you’re expecting a pickup in auto-enrollees next year.
Jimmy this is Larry I’ll address Liberty National first.
As our new systems were implemented.
We just found that agents did not meet the new activity levels required and those agents lapped the agency also a new training process is of Liberty National and the implementation and the lifetime presentation for individual sales enrollment of its agents but managers recruiting that within the first six months for 2013.
Our guidance for agent relative at Liberty National is a yearend we believe the agent count at Liberty National is between 1400 and 1500 agents.
At American Income what we found is our initiatives to improve agent retention did not give us the desire results as quickly as we’d hoped.
Also our agent (inaudible) 0:02:45.5 needed to achieve double digit agents sales growth in the second quarter.
Again we have initiatives that are changing at Liberty National and American Income our guidance for agent growth is the year end agent count at American Income should be in the range of 5 800 to 6 000 agents.
In terms Part D in 2014 Jimmy it’s really too early to really give a guidance on 2014 Part D sales we’ve submitted our bid but we don’t see the results of those bids until October- November of this year.
And then just maybe one more Family Heritage you had the company for a few quarters now what if then sort of the positives or negatives versus what you might have assumed initially and then what’s your longer-term expectation for growth of that business.
At Family Heritage the integration is going very well.
We’ve not lost a single agency director since the acquisition.
Our internet recruiting system is coming on line at all agencies and Family Heritage sales directors are now familiar with the system and they can manage their resume volume in addition in response to the growth we’re seeing at Family Heritage.
We’ve had a full time recruiting director to manage internet recruiting at Family Heritage.
And Family Heritage is also we had a director of agency development it’s important for agency directors.
Jimmy this year we’ve added approximately nine new agency directors and again to avoid confusion in the call we talk about agency directors at Family Heritage also the SGA’s those are the managers and other two systems for [recent term] sales director that means the new agency he had within Family Heritage.
But with those – with that with the increase in agency counts that we see sequentially we think there is a good growth prospects at Family Heritage Thank you.
Hi good morning thank you.
I was hoping you could talk little bit about competition both in the life and health businesses.
And the life side you’re seeing more insurers beginning to focus on the middle market consumers.
They are often using different distribution than you are.
I’m just wondering are you seeing that your customers have more options for purchasing insurance than had historically.
And then on the health side I’ve also seen increased focus on supplemental products from some insurers and is there been any noticeable impact on pricing there? With respect to life insurance we’ve not seen any impact of other insurers entering the middle income market.
We are still seeing and we make presentations in our customer’s homes we’re the only agent in their home.
And we’re not seeing any replacement activity that results from those sales.
The second question I believe was health insurance.
And again they are not health insurance went to niche with Family Heritage they operate in basically rural areas.
And we’re the only agent in this home making presentations metric supplement obviously is very competitive market although we’ve seen good growth in our Medicare supplement sales energy distribution.
Health sales for the new independent agents which is primary Medicare supplement growth 17% in the quarter and we think for the year within that agency we’re going to have double digit sales growth in the independent agents size slow double digit sales growth to be 9% or 10% in that range.
But again we are not seeing competition affect our sales.
Okay thanks that’s helpful.
And then just one American you mentioned that you added some more SGA’s this quarter and the opportunity to add additional SGA’s and sort of slower growth market so just wondering what is your and kind of what is the opportunity to add there and how much middle management capacity do you have currently to fill those roles Oh we seen there’s pretty good middle management capacity because we really focused on middle management and American Income over the last two years.
As we stated on the call and on January 1st 2013 our SGA count was 64 we’ve added the eight SGA’s in the second quarter we selected the SGA’s in second quarter that measured probably 72.
We anticipate by year-end 2013 will be at 75 SGA’s not a good guidance from last year but it’s our expectation that we’d be having additional SGA’s next year and those areas where we don’t have high growth rates we’re going to have plenty of lease we have resumes to recruit agents who will be adding additional SGA’s Okay thank you.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> I think it’s still good morning in Texas good morning.
And the question I guess you two places where I want to focus.
One obviously some challenges at Liberty but really wanted to more focus on American Income and agent count growth.
So the target for year-end is largely unchanged right despite some pressure in 2Q.
And I guess I’m just wondering if you could just help us understand where your confidence comes from like what are the specific efforts that have been put in place or can you talk it also any sort of progress in July that helps us feel better about the turnaround there.
John this is Larry again it’s really not July progress that we’re focused on the reason we’re expecting the stronger third and fourth quarter is because the changes that we introduced in the first and second quarter really focused on increased agent activities.
And we have compensation changes with progress on field agent retention.
We think those are going to have a greater impact on the third and fourth quarter.
The other change at American Income is the starting in August we’re going to introduce another compensation change at the agent level but we balanced this level to the agents let’s say a longer retention exercises we talk about agent retention.
We’re not talking about 12 month agent retention we’re talking about increased agent retention in the third and fourth and fifth and sixth months through the 12 months.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Understand okay.
And then I am sorry I might ask you later.
Yeah John I was just going to add that yeah we as Larry alluded to we had to make adjustments along the way.
Yeah couple of years ago we identified getting agents to level where they were getting the top bonus as it mean to growing agency and what we found is that we were getting there is supervision trying to get them to the top bonus level but we weren’t staying with them or helping them to stay at their level and so that contributed to the lower retention levels.
The things that Larry pointed out specially bonus at the agent level to – as they improve their tenure I think will help not only to get them – we don’t have to as to get them to the level they need to be able to stay there in order to while we make it to the fourth (inaudible) they could make it about half way through the year they have a much better chance of making it through the four year.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay understood and then really nice rebound in direct response this quarter I know that last quarter you had talked about some initiatives there.
Maybe you could help us understand sort of what’s – where the success was.
And in particular I know that you had talked about introducing through Globe the opportunity for higher face amounts on the life insurance side and I’m wondering if you have any success with the higher face amount product? This is Larry I’ll answer that two parts.
The first is really regarding response rates overall direct response some improvement in response rates in the second quarter was frequent down a little bit the demand in June we really didn’t see an improvement in response rates the circulation enquiries.
But we did see a significant increase of response rates for our email campaigns and our mailing response rates were much better in the second quarter than the first quarter 2013 with the final quarter of 2012.
So we’re definitely seeing overall increase in response rates.
I think your other question is really the rollout of our rates in our adult products and there we’re seeing good early results.
And that’s reflected in our guidance for the third and fourth quarters of 2013.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay very good thank you very much.
Good morning.
I actually want to go back to American Income as well.
I guess I’m just trying to put the mosaic together the sales outlook was moved from 10% to 14% down to about 3% to 6% or whatever the number was.
But you really aren’t changing the outlook on agents for the year.
I think you said last quarter 5900 and 6000 now you are 5800 to 6000.
Why that sizable drop in sales given that the agent counters just because of the impact of the second quarter in the kind of the steeper ramp to getting back to that aging count or is there something else going on? Mark just think about 2012 versus 2013 these two years have evolved very differently.
In 2012 American Income had an 18% first quarter year-over-year and 8% first quarter and then we really saw sales as agent sales have dropped to the third and fourth quarters.
We sold out the year with 11%.
If you look at American Income we have a negative first quarter with a 2% first quarter.
So you’re looking at fairly strong third and fourth quarters to still reach that range of 3% to 6%.
The reason we think we’re going to be able to grow this agency in 3% to 6% range is these initiatives and compensation the activity models are going to take hold in the third and fourth quarter and we’ll see better results.
Additionally if we add these additional SGA’s that will start to boost some of the sales some of the agent activity in the second half of 2013.
Excuse me.
I would add to that I think in our previous guidance we anticipated the increase in production for agent that we didn’t see in the second quarter.
It’s going to take us little bit longer to get to that productivity level.
So I think that’s why you may see that same number of agents but not quite most productive.
Okay and then just on the direct response deferral of certain cost related to internet distribution I guess just to – I’m surprised to see that this change kind of fully result in the decline in and just a quick why is that and so that’s a change in estimate it’s not a change in accounting principle is that right? That’s correct.
That’s right.
Okay is it a change in estimate that will be applied on a going forward basis.
Okay so as the – as this build up in the deferral occurs on the amortization the impact will kind of slowly ease but it will take a very long time for that to happen essentially.
Correct yeah you’ll see generally maybe about an 8% of the in your first year cost will result in increase in amortization at first year and then it will be spread out over a long period of time as the premiums are collected on that business.
Okay alright thank you.
Yeah thank you very much.
Is there any opportunity for other expenses to be deferred where you might not have adequate track records? Yes but you could at some point down the road.
We’re always taking a look to see to look at the various expenses that we have in valuating them at this point in time there are none that we you’d see we’re focusing on like we have been here on these internet expenses in building that historical track record.
Yeah Mark I would add that we took a really hard look at that this and some of the agency expenses back in 2011 and I don’t know that we – we’ve seen more expenses that we can move from non-deferral to deferral there.
The difference was direct response was those the deferral comes under the advertising cost rule.
And those are a little bit harder to say as Frank said you really have to develop information over a long period of time.
I really kind of think this is part of the last and direct response because most of the other expenses we had are non-deferred to mostly salaries at Wal-Mart these people that it can be or something I think we were set now that’s how we got our expenses defined.
Okay thank you.
Hey good morning thanks.
I just want to follow-up on that deferral thing I apologize I missed this.
What is the nature of the data that’s changed or you’ve been able to gather that that leads you to have a better deferral view on the internet.
What is it that you’ve captured in the data that changes that view? What you have to do is develop enough of the historical data that shows that the expenses that you’re incurring of advertising expenses that you have result in the probable future benefit that actually exceeded the amount of expense.
So you have to be able to show that the yes so expenses result in sales and that you have overall a profit margin relating from those particular activities but they’re really very similar to what we do in the insert media and these cost rates essentially the same other than rather than being in the print.
These are electronic type and so at this point in time it’s going to reach we’d now have just we’ve got enough history we’ve got a full five years under our belt if you will and the analysis of the data we can we are very comfortable that we can fully support that we do in fact have this probable future benefit of profit.
Is that probable future benefits over the whole scope of that activity right that’s not is it do you think they kind of hit a certain profit margin before you can say all of this activity is profitable.
Because there is a lot of there is a lot of initiative that go out that don’t have the result of a successful sales.
Is it like a profit margin hurdle is that what the hurdle is? Not as much of a profit margin hurdle as much as there is with the overall activity it can be shown to be that will in fact be profitable over a long period of time.
Okay interesting but similar to what you were able to achieve over the years with the print media that’s the that’s kind of the philosophy of that? Exactly.
Yeah Mark we have when we applied this in 2011we had many years of experience drawn focused mail side and also the internet media side.
It’s just that its internet it’s got just really started up we just didn’t have the data there.
And we probably have that and I will add to the prior question.
You did have to show a profit margin to be able to defer the expenses because you’ve got to be able to show that you can recover that DAC over time so it is there is a little bit of a hurdle there from the profit margin side.
Yeah I appreciate that just I’m more interest in it because we need the accruals.
And just one other clean up question and then I apologize to you if I missed this.
But Gary did you lay out kind of what the new money yield was this quarter and if you could compare that to over your last quarter I’d be interested in that? I’d mentioned earlier that our new money rate 4.07% for the quarter part of that reason it was lower than it was in the first quarter was the fact that we had to invest new money short at Family Heritage one time assets liability matching thing.
We really would have expected to have a higher rate than its already got us to 420 it would invest those that many long.
We were expected to have a little bit higher rate but we happen to invest our money in like the first six or seven weeks of the quarter when present rates were lower than they were in the first quarter.
So we missed the increase in the treasury rates later in the second quarter.
But we expect that going forward we’re going to invest and obviously grow to 4.07% and in our guidance will last throughout the year we’re built-in that we would be investing at four and three quarters percent.
Is that four and three quarters.
That’s perfect thank you.
Thanks I had two questions one on Liberty National you talked about it being a gradual process can you kind of revisit what your long term goals would be for growth and agent count and sales? Our long term growth for agent count at Liberty National as we think it is stable year-on-year our major growth were about 10%.
And we know to do that we need to expand our geographic number of offices as I mentioned that we opened four new offices second quarter we’re going to between now and then in the year we’re going to open traditional three offices those thing our office growth is really dependent upon we develop middle management we will expand geographically.
Got it thanks.
And secondly your premium growth in life accelerated a bit year-over-year maybe and then part of on your conservation efforts what’s in the vision in your full year 2013 guidance for life premium? See I think we’re looking between 4% to 5% and I think we will roll over 5% during the quarter but I think over the four would be four to five.
Great thanks.
Could you hear me now? Alright.
Thank you I’m sorry I had my phone on mute and just have this one question.
The profitability of Family Heritage continues to be on the health side of course materially less than the overall underwriting margin in your health business.
Now I know that was anticipated when you acquired the company last November.
But what’s the outlook there and in particular do you see profitability the true profitability numbers moving closer overtime? Eric we’re looking at a margin around 19% 18% to 20% for the year.
That’s what we expected for this type of business.
And we don’t expect that to change overtime.
We – one thing we could – that’s not reflected in the other item margin is we get a more investment income on this business because as you’ll remember a lot of this is where we have a refund to premium.
Future after 20 years so now we’re happy with this margin and I don’t see it moving up we need to match it more than the other products.
Is the margin on – is the margin on its supplemental health business as opposed to your Medicare business similar to that on the legacy towards market your existing supplemental medical margin? Eric I’m not sure did you say it came by Family Heritage as supplemental – Yes I’m trying to compare the profitability of Family Heritage supplemental medical business profitability to the profitability of the supplemental medical business of Torchmark other distribution agencies.
I would say it’s its notable that higher than the non-med sup business in our other lines.
It obviously is between its – it’s more towards the Medicare supplement than it is non-med so… Alright then thank you very much.
Thanks so much.
Most asked just one question regarding I guess M&amp;A pipeline and you changed the buyback strategy just to be a bit more I guess conservative and consistent in terms of when you’ve been in the market.
But is anything out there in terms of M&amp;A that is enticing to you guys or can you remind us just what your potential actions would be in terms of what you’d be looking for obviously some form of captive distribution but both maybe U.S.
as well as internationally? Chris it really hasn’t change over what we talked about before we do in type of companies that we would be interested in acquiring are companies that add capital to our controlled distribution it could be agencies or direct response.
That are in the middle income market and selling products similar to what we’re doing in the other are the lines of – those are – that’s the to talk of insurance that we’re comfortable with and we want to sell.
And I would say it’s going to be primarily domestic at least in what we’re seeing.
We’re still looking (inaudible) report any different from last quarter we’ll continue to look as I mentioned before we’re very pleased in buying the Family Heritage.
And we’ll be on the lookout for a company similar to that because that’s what we’re interested in we’re not interested in companies in other lines of business.
It’s – we want more of the type of businesses we already have.
Okay and is there a certain size deal you’d like to try and find? Well as I mentioned before we we do wish that the Family Heritage may be have been little bit bigger we can – there’s no particular size I’d say there are meters of limit to how much we can go but each deal with paying out so – Thanks so much.
Right.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those are our comments.
And we will talk to you again next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Torchmark Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2012 10-K and any subsequent forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the second quarter was $133 million or $1.42 per share a per share increase of 11% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $132 million or $1.43 per share a 5% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity as of September 30 was 15.6% and our book value per share was $37.60 a 9% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share was $40.97 a 9% decrease due to the impact of higher interest rates and the valuation of our fixed maturity portfolio.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $471 million and life underwriting margins increased 7% to $139 million.
The growth in underwriting margin exceeded the premium growth due to lower amortization on a deferred acquisition cost and the deferral of certain direct response Internet acquisition cost that had not been deferred prior to the second quarter 2013.
The lower amortization rate is a result of improvements and persistency attributable to our ongoing conservation program and is incorporated in our guidance.
Net life sales decreased 4% to $80 million.
On the Health side premium revenue excluding Part D increased 23% to $209 million and health underwriting margin grew 19% to $50 million.
Improvement in health premium and underwriting margin was due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage.
Health sales increased 54% to $23 million also due primarily to the acquisition of Family Heritage.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on insurance operations.
Thank you Gary.
First let’s discuss American Income which generates approximately 46% of our net life sales.
American Income's life premiums were up 8% to $181 million and life underwriting margin was also up 4% to $59 million.
Net life sales decreased 10% for the quarter to $37 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the second quarter was 5 449 approximately the same as a year ago but down 2% during the quarter.
We are disappointed with results for the third quarter at American Income.
While the real driver of growth in this agency is going to be the development SGAs opening new offices we did expect that the compensation changes made earlier this year would have had a more positive impact on sales and agent retention.
We continue to modify and tweak the compensation systems and are confident that these changes which are scheduled for January 1 implementation will eventually generate improvement but our primary focus will be on opening new offices and the continual development of middle management to help ensure that we maintain a large pool of highly quality SGA candidates.
We expect a net life sales decline for the full year 2013 within a range from 2% to 3% but we expect sales growth in 2014 to be within the range 3% to 7% as the SGAs added in 2013 make an impact.
Now Direct Response which generates approximately 42% of our life sales.
In our Direct Response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 4% to $164 million and life underwriting margin increased to 13% to $42 million.
Net life sales were up 6% to $33 million.
Response rates continue to improve slightly during the third quarter.
We are seeing positive results on rate adjustments and higher face amount offerings on adult insurance products implemented during the second quarter.
We expect low to mid-single digit net life sales growth for the full year 2013 and mid-single digit sales growth for 2014.
Now Liberty National.
At Liberty National life premiums declined to 2% to $69 million while life underwriting margin increased 3% to $19 million.
Net life sales decreased 9% to $8 million while net health sales declined 6% to $4 million.
Producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 320 down 6% from a year ago but 3% during the quarter.
The turnaround at Liberty National has been a bit more difficult than we anticipated and we were disappointed with results for the quarter.
While the transition to the new operating model and new mindset have been more challenging than expected of our traditional southeastern rural offices we are pleased with progress of our geographic expansion.
We opened four new offices in the second quarter another in the third quarter and we plan to open two more this year.
We are confident that expansion into more heavily populated less penetrated areas will generate long term agency growth at Liberty beginning in 2014.
We expect sales to decline within a range of 6% to 8% for the full year 2013 but expect to see low single-digit sales growth in 2014 as we start to see the benefits of geographic expansion.
Now Family Heritage.
Health premiums were $48 million and health net sales were $11 million.
Although results were slightly less than expected we are still pleased with the integration of Family Heritage.
We continue to implement our Internet recruiting system across the agency and believe that this will generate long-term sales growth as it becomes full incorporated.
For 2013 we expect health premium incomes to range from $191 million to $192 million with margins as a percentage of health premium of about 18% to 20%.
We expect sales of approximately $40 million -- $43 million to $45 million in 2013 and a mid-single-digit sales growth in 2014.
Medicare Part D.
Premium revenue for Medicare Part D declined 6% to $77 million while the underwriting margin increased 25% to $9 million.
Part D sales for the quarter fell 58% to $9 million due to the decrease of low-income subsidized enrollees for 2013.
We expect a decrease of approximately 4% to 5% in our Part D premiums for 2013 due primarily to price competition in the employer group market that we discussed on previous calls.
However we expect an increase in Part D sales and premiums in 2014 as we have qualified to receive new auto-enrollees in 15 regions in 2014 as compared to 7 in 2013.
We will be better able to quantify that increase on our next call.
I will now turn the call back over to Gary.
To complete the discussion of insurance operations administrative expenses were $45 million for the quarter 11% more than a year ago.
The increase is in line with our expectation and is due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage and an increase in pension cost.
As a percentage of premium administrative expenses for full year 2013 should be around the same level as 2012.
Now I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $54 million a decline of $1 million or 2%; but a 2% increase on a per share basis from the third quarter of 2012.
Decline in dollars is due to lower new money yield and the call of $467 million of hybrid securities since June 30 2012.
For the full year 2013 we expect the decline in excess investment income to be approximately 7% to 8%.
However reflecting the impact of share repurchases we expect the decline in 2013 excess investment income per share to be around 3% compared to 2012.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets were $12.9 billion including $12.3 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Of the fixed maturities $11.7 billion were investment grade with an average rating of A- and below investment grade bonds were $586 million compared to $685 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.8% compared to 6.3% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.5 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equities excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 17% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A- compared to BBB+ a year ago.
In addition in the portfolio we have net unrealized gains of $489 million compared to $1.6 billion a year ago.
The decrease in net unrealized gains is due primarily to the recent increases in market interest rates rather than credit concerns.
Regarding investment yield in the third quarter we invested $133 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and utility sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 5.2% an average rating of A and an average life of 30 years.
For the entire portfolio the third quarter yield was 5.91% down 42 basis points from the 6.33% yield for the third quarter of 2012.
The decline in the yield is due primarily to the addition of lower yielding Family Heritage portfolio and the calls of the bank hybrid securities since the second quarter of last year.
As of today we still hold approximately $76 million of bank hybrids that we expect to be called at some point.
However we have not yet received the notice of intent to call on any of these securities.
If all $76 million of these securities are called the lost annual income related to these calls would be less than $1 million after tax.
We are encouraged by the higher treasury rates due to the positive impact that higher interest rates would have on our excess investment income.
Even at the current new money rate we would expect to see only modest declines in the portfolio yields over the next five years compared to the larger declines in recent years.
This development is due primarily to the hybrid calls being behind us and the expected maturities coming from bonds with lower interest rates than in the past.
Even sudden interest spike could be beneficial as we have very little The Center mediation risk and we are not concerned about the potential interest rate driven unrealized losses in our fixed maturity portfolio.
As we have said many times we have both the intent and more importantly the ability to hold our bonds to maturity.
Now I will turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the third quarter we spent $85 million to buy 1.2 million Torchmark shares at an average cost of $70.45 per share.
For the full year through September 30 we had spent $265 million of parent company cash to acquire 4.2 million shares at an average cost of $62.44 per share.
The available liquid assets at the parent consist of assets on hand plus the expected free cash flow from operations.
As we said before free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from its subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
The parent entered the second quarter with liquid assets of $117 million.
Assuming shareholder dividends remain at their current level we expect free cash flow for the remainder of 2013 to be around $38 million.
Along with the $117 million of liquid assets available as of September 30 the parent will have around $155 million of available liquid assets for the remainder of the year.
Of this amount we expect to retain approximate $55 million to $60 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be the primary use of the remainder of the fund.
So far in the fourth quarter we have spent approximately $20.4 million to repurchase 284 000 shares at an average cost of $71.97.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current rating.
For the last three years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325%.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Gary.
For 2013 we expect our net operating income within a range $5.68 per share to $5.72 per share.
For 2014 we expect that our net operating income be within a range $6 per share to $6.40 per share.
Those are our comments.
We will now open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
I had a question first for Larry.
May be if you can discuss the driver of the decline in the agent counter American Income during the quarter and what gives you comfort that the results are going to improve? And then secondly on Part D expectations obviously you are approved in more regions for auto-enrollees next year than this year.
But I don't think you should see a commensurate increase in like premiums in the business because I think the regions are going up to 15 from 8 but may be you could discuss how much of a pickup you should -- you are expecting? Jimmy in the third quarter the agent count didn't grow as you believe it would because the SGAs our managers and agents have not responded as quickly as we had hoped to the compensation changes we initiated in the first or second quarter.
We do believe we're going to have growth in 2014.
In the first quarter we're going to have a new senior life product and a change in our compensation payment system which should have a positive effect on agent activity.
This compensation system change will result in agents being pretty more quickly which should also help with agent retention.
We also have a change in management compensation to tie bonuses to recruiting results and the senior product will allow agents utilize more of their leads.
Part D if I heard your question correctly Jimmy I think you were asking for the guidance and what's going to happen.
Or just expectations because I think the number of regions already you enrolled is up almost twice as much next year versus this year but I think last year you had declined a lot but your premiums actually held up relatively well.
So how it should be like -- should we expect a huge jump in premiums because of the increased number of regions that you had already enrolled in? I think the guidance we give at this time is we would expect the premiums for 2014 for Part D between a range of $330 million to $340 million as compared to approximately $300 million in 2012.
We expect the margin of that business certainly to be between 9% and 11% And we will take our next question from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
I wanted may be starting off with another question on American Incomes headcount and how it pertains to sales growth and if I understood correctly and in the past you talked about how the bottleneck been middle management there.
And yet when I look at the how to say renewal agents those with at least one year experience that number has been actually been growing at a nice pace every quarter this year.
So I'm wondering what else is going on there that's creating pressure on sales today? Let's talk about middle management development first.
Our middle management numbers really hasn't changed just beginning of the year because we haven't experienced growth in new agents.
We just had fewer candidates to promote -- for promotion to management positions that's slight decrease at the MGA level is in part because we opened eight new offices and we call that Florida MGAs and to open offices.
So we would think we'll see the change next year as we pick up our agent recruiting that begins to increase.
Also I'm going to add as far as the middle agents growing that is the pattern that we expect when we talk about retention the fact that our retention is not as in the first year items especially the first six months that they are involved in and that's the retention figure that we're trying to improve.
Okay.
So is the focus then more on these first year agents or is it still about growing the bench above potential middle management agents? It's both.
We know we need to grow middle management; we have more SGAs to enlarge our offices or to expand our offices.
And it's also important to have the middle management to train the new agents properly.
So I agree with Larry it's both the agents and the middle management.
We talked about the compensation changes we initiated in the first and second quarter those compensation changes you directed towards first your agents what we're trying to do is get an agent that normally would have left in the third month who would may be leave in the fifth sixth or seventh month.
So we get that additional production agent that cascades through those numbers.
Your fourth fifth six month agents; so hopefully with these compensation changes they receive a bonus as they stay longer that will have more production from those first year agents.
Okay.
So when you talk about these being somewhat disappointing results from your perspective is it disappointing on the first year agent growth or is the disappointment on the middle management? Thanks.
I'm disappointed at both levels.
We have not had the first year agent growth we've expected because of lack of retention which is not responding to these compensation changes.
Likewise we doesn't have the activity levels that we would expect from our managers in terms of recruiting and causing activities as they train those agents.
That's why we changed the compensation effective January 1st.
So different compensation change it ties that managers bonuses to the activity of those first year agents and it also ties that bonus to recruiting new agents in the office.
And then Liberty National.
So if you're forecasting 1-6/8th [ph] sales declines for the full year that implies call it 10% 12% may be sales declines in the further quarter.
So that seems like its still going the wrong direction.
And I was curious a) why we're still moving in the opposite direction from the desired direction and b) how you get from there to a more positive environment in '14?  We get there in two ways.
First of all agent productivity we think will come up in 2014.
Agent productivity is slightly down as we just opened four offices in the last quarter and we opened one this quarter and we opened seven more.
We have more experienced agents.
As those agents become more experienced with a higher level of productivity.
The other change we've had at Liberty this year has been the limitation of a laptop.
That rollout will be completed by the end of November and following that rollout the laptop directors will begin to follow to make sure that all the officers are using the laptop effectively.
I think we talked about in last call that change in that system actually is a little bit of a step backward.
I would say that the other change is that as we've changed the culture we've changed the recruiting methodology of Liberty some of the more experienced agents have liked the system and we think that downturn is now complete.
We will start to build that agency count.
The other thing that I would add you're right fourth quarter was -- is projected to be about 11% decrease but that's one it's a bad comparison.
The fourth quarter of 2012 is by far their highest quarter from the issued standpoint.
Well actually it will be slight but we will see sequential increase in sales of Liberty in the fourth quarter may be 1% to 2%.
And we will take a question from Sarah DeWitt from Barclays.
American Income.
Can you just elaborate on what were the compensation changes you made previously that have caused so much disruption this quarter and how does the new changes differ from the old ones and why does that give you so much confidence that that will be effective and we won't have an ongoing issue there?  Well again we were disappointed in third quarter because as I stated earlier the SGAs the managers and agents didn't respond as quickly we had hope to these compensation changes.
You've to think about agency it takes a while to institute a compensation change and have that flow through an agency.
We will make a compensation change as based on trends we've seen six or eight months ago.
We -- our sales management has experienced they were former SGAs as they changed their management they first discussed that with field we then test those management changes and then we have to see the implementation for retention bonuses to see what effect as you all have retention bonus in the third quarter it takes three four or five months to begin to see the effects of that.
And we're confident that there is only a positive impact this has been slower to hit that agency.
Early in the year we have reduced some management bonuses.
And you've to change your bonuses from time-to-time to keep the compensation system as an incentive to the direct behavior.
There was a negative reaction to those reductions.
And as we introduced the new management bonus system in January of 2014 Sarah we believe that will have an impact and will bring the activity and enthusiasm of that agency back to a normal level.
And then just switching share -- switching gears to share buyback.
Is there a -- how do you think about the valuation there on buying back your stock? And is there a level at which you have to slow or sought share buyback? Yeah Sarah we -- I think we talked about in the past.
We all calculated intrinsic value what we think intrinsic value of the stock is and we monitor the actual price to that intrinsic value and that's a very important consideration as to whether we buy shares.
If we felt we were fully valued we would stop share repurchase and use that cash for other millions but although our intrinsic value is closer to -- or excuse me our share price is closer to what we think fair value is it's still not there yet.
And we still think that the stock price or the stock is a goodbye especially when you consider the risk adjusted return we get on share repurchases versus other alternatives that we can invest in.
But we continually watch that and if we -- if the price gets to the point where we think it is fairly valued we will look at other uses of the cash and part of it may -- our purpose is return the cash to the shareholders and we would -- it would be a board decision but we might consider special dividend or whatever.
But we just do not feel like we have gone to that point yet.
Okay.
And how do you measure intrinsic value? Well the method we have used for years is just without going into a lot of detail where you value the current equity and divide present value of future premiums or future income and I think we're fairly conservative with it.
But we also talked to other people as to what bankers and all what they think the value is and we're -- and again we're not saying our values that we come up with is the best value.
But what we do is we're constantly we've done this for years compare the what tiers are actually trading to do it what that intrinsic value is has always been the less in net value and it hasn't gone to the point where the share price is at that value that intrinsic value.
So that's what we still consider the stock repurchases the best use of cash.
And we'll take a question from Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
I'm going to hit sales again but just from a different angle and with Torchmark we talk a lot about very kind of granular details on agents recruiting compensations et cetera which I appreciate.
But just kind of thinking mere more broadly AFLAC U.S.
CNO Financial two names I cover have seen lower sales than what we thought would be over the last few quarters.
And so I guess moving away from the specifics especially America Income more broadly is there something going on out there that's making it harder for agents to be successful.
Is it the economy gas prices? Is there kind of an external environment change that you're seeing in your business that might be part of the explanation for some of these sales challenges? I don't think there is an overall trend of returning sales.
I do think it's more difficult for agents today to set appointments and with the advent of the onset of do not call us as people moved away from landline phones to cell phones it's hard for an agent to make appointments.
But we've overcome that as we introduce new software that helps set appointments be more efficient in these calls.
I think if you look at -- just look broader at American Income and if you go back and look at historical trends it's really unusual for American Income to have two very strong years in a row.
If you go back in the last 10 years there are four years we have double-digit growth 17% 18% 18% 12% growth.
There's also years where we have negative growth.
I can see years in that 10-year cycle we were down 9% we were down to 8% we were down this year projecting 2% to 3% following a double-digit growth year.
What we do know is the accumulative growth is very strong and that your agency grows and your sales grow on a stair step pattern.
So I think that's really what's going on in our mechanism.
And I guess would the same comments by I was kind of talking probably about the dynamic to your Liberty I mean same thing or to me that's a little bit different right it's a more narrow geographic set? I would say Liberty is quite different.
We restructured Liberty at the end of 2010 to a variable cost model.
The current restructuring of Liberty is twofold.
One is changing the culture of Liberty.
There is a growth culture not a production culture.
The second change is what we talked about is geographic expansion.
We know that we try to expand offices in the Southeast is probably not going to work based on the last 20 years experience.
But we do know as we look at these new offices we can expand Liberty and say adapt the new systems for recruiting for selling.
We're seeing positive results in these new offices.
So the future of Liberty is really a different future which is expand outside of Southeast and to adopt these new systems.
And we have a question from Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Direct response.
I guess we'll go through sales again.
I guess I was also surprised that were up 6% pretty easy comp you have a new product with a kind of higher face value that should attract the different audience what is going on there and what gives you the confidence that that should improve? What we're thinking the fourth quarter growth the strong growth has to come from our adult insurance product rate implementation and our continued introduction of higher face offers we have the internet inquiry fulfillments some new packaging coming out.
I remember at Globe when we talk about a rollout? There's not a single rollout.
As we rollout the adult product we're doing further testing on packaging on rates and we see some further growth not just from the rollout as we tweak the packaging and the pricing that products will go forward.
We feel very good about it worldwide and in 2014 sales results are projected.
Is there anything in these response rates that kind of has changed fundamentally? No as we said we saw a slight improvement in response rates in the third quarter.
We saw noticeable increase in price of electronic campaigns and all electronic circulation enquiries were about the same.
But part of the response relates are tied to the economy.
We're pleased that we're seeing some progress in economy on jobs; gas prices have been stable.
So we think those are other improvements that help response rates.
And then just on Family Heritage I guess I was surprised by the agent decline I was also surprised by the sales decline sequentially.
Obviously this is a recent acquisition you're focused on changing the recruiting dynamics and focused on geographic expansion.
Is this just part of the kind of the ongoing integration or there are anything that we need to be worried about on this? Well I think that's part of the ongoing integration and you need to remember Family Heritage has just completed its first year under Torchmark after spending its first 23 years as a private company it takes some time for them to aciculate to our new recruiting system You have different incentives.
There are cultural changes.
We think this is going to be a temporary adjustment and part of our optimism was based on the fact that Family Heritage has not lost as a single owner of any other agency since been acquired by Torchmark.
In fact we have had several agency owners this year; we think one of the positive impacts on 2014.
The other change at Torchmark is we're going to provide Family Heritage with some additional product and marketing support through the fourth quarter of '13 into 2014 which should further help the results.
But we're optimistic about some growth of Family Heritage in 2014.
And we have a question from Christopher Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Just wanted a follow-up on direct response.
So there any I guess numbers you can give us in terms of may be percentage of new sales that are above kind of the original 50 000 limit.
So I guess sort of how should we be tracking the penetration of the higher face amount policy? Just so I don't have those specific numbers in front of me.
I can tell you it's reflected in our guidance for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2013 and the 2014.
And then I guess at this point how should we thinking about Liberty I think midyear I think you talked about sort of being the most optimistic you've been in sometime around there and clearly the point to a laptop there's an opportunity.
Has it just been just a slower implementation of the laptop strategy or I guess what's kind of derailed the stories as you know clearly restructuring took place during '12? And then do you still have the confidence that kind of 10% to 12% growth longer-term setting aside may be '14 still being a transition year do you still feel like that's a metric you can achieve ? I don't think the story Liberty has changed.
I think we're still optimistic.
As I stated it has taken longer to implement the changes in the system and remember the laptop is only for the individual life sales Remember at Liberty about half of those sales are in the workplace and there is a new system introduced for workplace sales in terms of how you recruit to that how you prospect on that so it's taken most of 2013 to implement also the new work site selling system and we should see the benefit of that into 2014.
And I probably have been too optimistic about Liberty.
I'm optimistic about the long-term results as just it takes longer than we anticipate to change systems change improving and change culture in the company.
And then lastly just the over six month retention rate in American Income where do we stand on that today? Are you talking about 13 months retentions for agents or? Yes.
I don't have the numbers in front of me.
We look retention from first month to 13 month retention.
And we're trying to convey that as you see the agency gradually grow or not grow.
Off the top of head I can't tell you what that numbers for six month retention.
Well the 13 month retention is down a little bit but it I don't have the exact numbers in front of me.
But we -- what we do know is that it's down because of we're losing in the third to sixth month at a greater rate than we had in the past.
What I see what I talk to Scott Smith the President of the Company and Rogers as the CEO they're somewhat optimistic what they see is some uptick in recruiting numbers and the uptick in the recruits come through that pipeline those recruits turn into coded agents that are selling business.
As you have more agents that are selling business your retention rate should do up.
Generally optimistic based on the testing that they have done with the compensation changes I think we will see retention gradually increase starting in the first quarter of 2014.
So the six months is certainly being critical because I think just over half the sales come from agents that have been there longer than six months.
So that's your focus and you think this commission structure will help address that kind of lower retention rate? If the commission structure addresses the retention remember there is two changes in the compensation system.
The first is a bonus system that rewards longer retention.
The second is a change in bonus levels that increases activity.
As you increase activity of agents and you increase activity of managers it reflects on a higher retention rate.
And we have a question from Vincent Lui from Morningstar.
Just want to go take a look at the investment portfolio.
I notice that you've been gradually increasing the duration of bond portfolio from about 26 years to 29.7 years this quarter.
Could you give some general comments on that? Is that -- is it a change in the strategy? Are you trying to position in some ways for rising rates in the future? Vincent there really hasn't been a change in strategy.
A lot of it depends on what's available in the market.
We do invest long as we talked about before because our policy liability is long.
If you go back and look at the last -- really last four five quarters it varies because third quarter of last year we -- I think it was 23 years and it's been around 25 26 I think 29.
May be the highest -- It's just -- I think it's -- we haven't changed the strategy I just think that was what was available.
And we have a question from Bob Glasspiegel from Janney.
Question it seems like some of the tweaks that you're making trying to get sales going or offering the agents are little bit more of the or the customers a little bit more and there's a tradeoff between margins and sales that you're balancing all the time.
I mean with margins very strong and sales a little bit disappointing.
Now the changes you're making margin neutral or margin negative recognizing that new sales don't move the aggregate needle that much? Changes are margin neutral Bob.
Margin neutral? Yes margin neutral.
The changes aren't just compensation.
We recognize compensation as the biggest driver of agent activity and retention.
There is also system changes.
Now the lead mapping system I talked about makes those agents more effective so they have more presentations they can make in a week.
Another positive we see within American Income they've increased their leads whole by 10% this year.
That's a positive.
We know that agents have more leads to set more appointments have higher sales that increases their income they're going to stay with the company longer hopefully transition in that management role.
So there are systems there are lead changes besides the compensation and we think are positive signs going towards the higher growth rate in 2014.
Well Bob we allowed -- we've always had bonuses and we allowed for bonuses in setting our pricing our margins.
It's really what we're talking about is moving that margin money to incentivize different behavior; it's all part of our normal margin.
And I didn't hear did you give your estimate for statutory earnings for 2013 and what the free cash flow for 2014 might be? Yeah Gary I will go ahead and take that.
We did not give an estimate as far as statutory earnings was concerned for '13.
We had not yet completed our third quarter statutory results.
We do think that our RBC as of the end of the year should be roughly in line with where we were at the end of 2012.
As far as our -- what's built into the kind of midpoint of our guidance for 2014 we are estimating free cash flow stock buyback in the range of $360 million to $370 million.
It's fair to say this would be a going statutory earnings year given the lack of credit issues that have hit the portfolio is that a fair assumption? Yeah I mean investment income there is still a drag on investment income just in general on the statutory just as you've seen GAAP side.
So -- Right.
I'm talking about credit losses aren’t giving like what you're modeling I mean you allow for certain credit losses a year in your modeling -- Yes from a credit loss perspective yes it's been a very good year.
Bob we will give better estimates when we do the full quarter call; we will have statutory information by then to give a better estimate.
Okay.
So a little guesstimate on how nine months is running versus a year ago just a percentage increase? Yes I really don't have that.
Ballpark? I really don't have that at this point.
(Operator Instructions) We will take a question from Erik Bass from Citi.
Just a question on productivity at American income.
It looks like you just look at sales versus agent growth over the past year or so the sales have lagged suggesting that productivity has declined and can you just talk about what's driving this nearly some of it is probably mix of new hires.
And so may be if you have any data on sort of how productivity is trending for agents with different amounts of experience? Well on overall if you look at per agent production in 2013 versus 2012 the per agent production has decreased in 2012 but only about 3% as compared to 2013.
And as I stated earlier I think part of that it's more difficult to set sales appointments from the telephone.
To offset that difficulty we are making system changes.
And productivity is tied to agent activity.
As we see more agent activity we will see our productivity slightly rise.
Okay.
And maybe just another question on just how you view some of the new initiatives that competitors are rolling out to try to reach more middle income consumers things like kiosks at Wal-Mart and whether you view that as a competitive threat? And I guess just be interested in your opinion on kind of how much potential you think alternative distribution models have been in the lower-to-middle income segment of the market?  We do not see as a treat.
What we know is we serve an underserved market and when we look across our distribution what we are not seeing as any replacement activity from competitors.
Also we are the only agents in the home and we are a niche I think of our union business.
So there is not a competition issue for us as people try and seek the middle income market.
Well life insurance is something you have to sell across the kitchen table.
So we will take a look at what (inaudible) kiosks but it not a product that sells itself.
And so we are more comfortable to make sales projections looking at agency growth as the driver of production rather than bringing that new products for the completion.
We are really a sales organization.
Our focus is more in that sales organization to reach more of that middle income market.
And we have a question from Mark Hughes from SunTrust.
Can you give us an estimate for excess investment income either on a absolute bases or per share basis for next year?  Yeah Mark we are -- we guided declined in excess investment this -- income this year 7% to 8% we are going to reverse that next year.
And in dollar amount the excess investment should increase in the 7% to 8% range.
And a good part of that is because we are going to see growth in investment income.
The $467 million of hybrid calls had a tremendous impact reduction-wise on the 2013 income.
As I mentioned earlier that is behind us.
So now the growth in -- and with the higher new money rates the growth in investment income will not be as high as the growth in asset but it's going to be much closer.
So we will see growth in the income and our policy obligations interest on policy obligations will grow in about the same range.
And actually our interest on the debt calls will be lower.
When you add all that together you will get to about a 7% to 8% increase in the midpoint of our guidance.
And we have a follow-up question from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
I had just one question on the 2014 sales guidance.
Since a lot of it depends on the initiatives and the tweaks of existing initiatives should we expect to the sales growth to be back-weighted next year or is it roughly even throughout the year? I think it will be a little bit back loaded because if you put in initiatives in the first quarter you will see those pull through more in the second third and fourth quarter and the first quarter that would be our expectation.
That's not true to direct response because those initiatives were started in the second and third quarter this year to do additional testing.
We think we will see the same kind of road kind of Globe Life in action that we saw this quarter and projected in the fourth quarter so that is in our guidance.
(Operator Instructions).
And it appears we have no further question.
All right.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those were our comments.
And we will talk to you again next quarter.
Once again ladies and gentleman that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation today.
Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation fourth quarter 2013 earnings release conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2012's 10-K and any subsequent forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter was $134 million or $1.46 per share a per share increase of 10% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $143 million or $1.56 per share a 1% decrease on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity was 15.5% and our book value per share was $38.77 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share was $41.49 a 10% decrease due to the impact of higher market interest rates and the valuation of our fixed maturity portfolio.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $468 million and life underwriting margins increased 6% to $137 million.
The growth in underwriting margin exceeded the premium growth due to the lower amortization on deferred acquisition cost and the deferral of certain direct response internet acquisitions cost that had not been deferred prior to the second quarter of 2013.
The lower amortization rate is a result of improvements and persistency attributable to our ongoing conservation program and is incorporated in our guidance.
We are pleased with the results of our conservation program and expected to see continued improvement and persistency.
Net life sales were flat at $83 million compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
However they increased 4% over the third quarter of 2013.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D increased 6% to $215 million and health underwriting margin grew 11% to $49 million.
Improvement in the health premium and underwriting margin was due primarily to the addition of Family Heritage.
Health sales increased 13% to $40 million also due primarily to the acquisition of Family Heritage.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the insurance operations.
Thank you Gary.
First let's discuss American Income which generates approximately 39% of our life premiums.
American Income's life premiums were up 6% to $182 million and life underwriting margin was up 4% to $59 million.
Net life sales decreased 5% in the quarter to $38 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the fourth quarter was 5 302 up 2% over a year ago and down 3% during the quarter.
While we indicated on our last call the sale should be down for the year the fourth quarter results were slightly weaker than we anticipated.
The changes that were made in 2013 just didn't create the results we hope for.
However while sales were lower than expected they did increase sequentially from the third quarter to the fourth quarter by 3%.
We said on the third quarter conference call that we expected changes to be implemented early in the first quarter to promote increased enthusiasm and activity in the field in 2014.
While we are still implementing these changes we do believe they will drive increases in agent retention and sales activity.
We plan to open six new offices in 2014 and we'll continue to focus on developments of middle management to develop new SGA candidates.
In 2014 we should start to see the results from the recent initiatives and the SGAs added in 2013 will also begin to make an impact.
We expect life sales growth in 2014 to be within a range of 3% to 6% as most of the growth coming in the third and fourth quarters.
Now Direct Response which generates 35% of our life premiums.
In our Direct Response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 6% to $162 million and life underwriting margin increased 19% to $41 million.
Net life sales were up 8% to $34 million.
Response rates improved again during the fourth quarter.
We are continuing to see positive results on rate adjustments and higher face amount offerings on adult insurance products implemented during the second quarter.
We expect life sales growth for 2014 to be in a range of 5% to 9%.
Now Liberty National.
At Liberty National life premiums declined 2% to $68 million.
Our life underwriting margin declined 6% to $19 million.
Net life sales decreased 4% to $8 million while net health sales increased 2% to $4 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National end of the quarter at 1 430 up 1% from a year ago but up 8% during the quarter.
We are pleased with the trends we are seeing at Liberty National.
While sales were down during the fourth quarter they were significantly higher than we had anticipated.
Our efforts to expand geographically are progressing nicely is evidenced by the increase in agent account from the third quarter through the fourth quarter.
We opened six new offices in 2013.
As agents in these offices become more experienced their productivity will improve.
We expect to open five more new offices at Liberty in 2014.
As we've said before we are confident that expansion into more heavily populated less penetrated areas will generate long-term agency growth at Liberty beginning in 2014.
We expect to see sales growth in 2014 in a range of 2% to 5%.
Now Family Heritage.
Health premiums were $49 million and health net sales were $11 million.
We continue to work on our recruiting systems across the agency and believe that this will generate long-term growth.
We expect growth in health sales at Family Heritage in 2014 to be in a range of 2% to 7%.
Medicare Part D.
Premium revenue for Medicare Part D declined 13% to $73 million while the underwriting margin was flat at $10 million.
Part D sales for the quarter increased 15% to $53 million due to the increase in loan income subsidized enrollees in 2014.
We expect an increase of approximately 13% to 15% in Part D premiums in 2014 because we have qualified to receive new auto-enrollees in 15 regions in 2014 while we received new auto-enrollees in seven region in 2013.
I'll now turn the call back to Gary.
To complete the discussion of insurance operations administrative expenses were $46 million for the quarter 3% more than a year ago.
The increase is in line with our expectation and we anticipate that administrative expenses should remain relatively flat in 2014 and be approximately 5.7% of premiums.
Now I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $55 million a decline of $1 million or 2% but a 3% increase on a per share basis from the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year 2013 excess investment income decline 8% on a dollar basis and 3% on a per share basis.
This decline was due to lower new money yields and the call of hybrid securities that occurred in late 2012 and early 2013.
2013 was the third consecutive year that excess investment income declined.
In 2014 we expect to see a reverse of this downward trend.
We expect excess investment income to increase by approximately 5% to 6% in 2014.
Further reflecting the impact of share repurchases we expect excess investment income per share to increase about 10% to 12% compared to 2013.
Now regarding the investment portfolio.
Invested assets were $13 billion including $12 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Of the fixed maturities $11.9 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A- and below investment grade bonds were $566 million compared to $585 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.5% compared to 4.9% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.5x the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 16% which is less than most of our peers.
Overall total portfolio is rated A- same as a year ago.
In the fourth quarter we invested $319 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and utility sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 5.4% on average rating of BBB+ at an average life of 25 years.
For the entire portfolio the fourth quarter yield was 5.90% down 30 basis points from the 6.20% yield in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Most of this decline occurred early in 2013 due primarily to the lower new money yields and the calls of the bank hybrid securities.
Portfolio yield declined only 5 basis points between the second and fourth quarter.
We are encouraged by the higher new money rates due to the positive impact that high interest rates have on our excess investment income.
At the current new money rate we would expect to see only modest declines in the portfolio yield over the next five years as compared to the larger declines in recent years.
This development is due primarily to the high recalls being behind us and the expected maturities coming from bonds with lower interest rates in the past.
Even sudden interest rate spikes would be beneficial as we have very little disintermediation risk and are not concerned with potential interest rate driven unrealized losses in our fixed maturity portfolio.
As we've said many times we have both the intent and more importantly ability to hold our bonds maturity.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the fourth quarter we spent $95 million to buy 1.27 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $74.45.
For the full year we spent $360 million of parent company cash to acquire 5.5 million shares at an average price of $65.21.
The parent ended the year with liquid assets of approximately $60 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow in 2014.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
While our 2013 statutory earnings have not yet been finalized we expect free cash flow in 2014 to be in the range of $370 million to $380 million.
Thus including the $60 million available from assets on hand we currently expect to have between $430 million and $440 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
To date in 2014 we have used $40.2 million of this cash to buy 529 000 Torchmark shares.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance companies.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
Although we haven't finalized our 2013 statutory financial statement we expect the RBC percentage at December 31 2013 will be slightly above the 325% consolidated target.
We do not anticipate any changes to our targeted RBC levels in 2014.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2014 we expect that our net operating income will be in a range of $6.05 per share to $6.35 per share.
Those are our comments.
We'll now open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I had a couple of questions first one on capital.
I think you mentioned $430 million to $440 million of available cash.
And if you keep $50 million to $60 million of a cushion that means like buybacks of around 380-ish or so for the year is that the right way to think about that? Yes you should.
We expect the buybacks to be right in that or the free cash flows in that $370 million to $380 million range.
And then on the business maybe Larry on Liberty National how much of the growth in agent count is coming just from the new offices that you're opening up versus growth at existing offices? And then on the related count the agent count at American Income you mentioned that some of the initiatives that you had implemented haven't like gained traction as fast as maybe you thought.
Can you discuss what's you're doing and what gives you comfort that trends will get better in 2014? At Liberty National the agent growth is coming from the new offices.
We also see some increase in existing offices.
So it comes from both sets of offices.
American Income we just did not see the expected correction in agent retention or agent activity we hoped for and we made the changes in retention bonuses earlier in 2013.
The sales growth in 2014 will come primarily from the bonuses structure change we began implementing last month.
This change is aimed at increasing agent compensation early in agent's career and encouraging greater agent activity.
The bonus change also affects managers because it ties their compensation Jimmy to increased recruiting and agent retention.
We have tested these changes in the third and fourth quarters of 2013 before they were implemented.
And then additionally simplify the commission process so that our agents will have a greater certainty of payment at the point of sale at American Income.
Jimmy I might add.
For the six new offices I think we have 86 agents from those offices.
And then on Part D like you are in 15 regions you were in seven last year.
Should we assume that premiums were double or obviously there is a difference in size of all the regions than the market folks that you have? So could you discuss like how that relates to expected premiums? Our premiums last year were approximately $300 million.
We expect our premiums this year to be approximately $340 million.
And most of that pickup comes from the additional regions where we receive auto-enrollees.
We get different numbers in different regions.
I don't think it's fair to see with double.
The number of auto-enrollees would not necessarily double but overall premiums I guess you're expecting a little bit north of 10% up? That's correct.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Larry a follow-up on Jimmy's Part D question.
I know obviously you have your regular enrollees you also have auto enrollees and the number of characterized auto-enrollees is doubled so that's the thing.
What I'm not quite understanding is that your in force went from about $300 million to $322 million at the end of this quarter versus the third quarter that's an 8% increase.
My understanding was that the sales for the first quarter are reflected at the end of the fourth quarter is that not accurate? I'm trying to find out where this other 7% is going to come from basically because you'd been averaging about $300 million of gross premium in force? I'm thinking about your question.
With the auto-enrollees some of those come each quarter but we're going to be having auto-enrollees throughout the year Steven.
I don't know if I can track back instantly what the percentages are each quarter but I do have confidence that the premium number we're giving you is fairly close which you'll see for the year of about $340 million.
Margin in Part D I think it was about 11.8% for 2013? I think we're producing about 10% margin for Part D in 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Montgomery Scott.
You're looking for investment income to start moving up.
I assume your comments are predicated with the 10 year where it is.
I suspect maybe your spreads have won and the stuff you're buying isn't going down in line with treasuries this year? Bob we have seen a little bit of decline in the rates but we're still investing this quarter near the 550 that we've assumed in our guidance for the year.
So 255 10 year doesn't really impact you.
You're not looking this to like a blip and rates you're going to move up this is the real-time based on where we are today? Well I think our 550 is based on a little bit -- we don't look so much at the 10 year but to 30 year side.
And the 550 was based on a little bit higher 30 year rate than we have right now but it's not materially different.
It's not a regular period so just slight uptick from where we are right now in yields? I think we feel confident of the 5.5 for the year.
And as we think about your conservation program on the life side what sort of persistency improvement can you see from it? Well I think we see improvement both in our first year and renewal year rates.
And I think we have scheduled out on the web site that showed that improvement.
In 2013 we conserved $38 million of lapse premium that's about 15% of our lapses for the year.
And we think we can continue to increase our percentage.
We think within a couple of years we'll be around 17% of life's premium.
The good thing about it is that once that premium is conserved we're seeing about the same persistency as a matter of fact a little bit persistency than we do in our other business.
But at some point the improvement in persistency will level out a little that is as we go forward with the conservation program as we conserve more we're going to have some lapses of premiums that we conserved in prior years.
But the rates that you see on that schedule of those persistency rates we think will continue to hold or improve slightly.
Just so I understand it that if you hadn't done the conservation program you'd have $38 million less in premium for the year? $38 million less of premium in force that's right.
And we'll take our next question from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
I was hoping we could return to the first question by Jimmy.
Can you just one more time sort of contrast with respect to American Income the initiatives at the start of last year with the change in compensation now how are those two moves different? And again why are you confident that I know you mentioned you tested but why are you confident that presumably you tested before that this time you're going to get the desired outcome? What's the difference and why are you confident? Eric this is Larry.
I'll try to answer that.
In 2013 we slightly changed our compensation systems by introducing agent 10-year bonus.
We did that in the first quarter and the third quarter of the year.
In 2014 we've initiated a revised bonus system that's really aimed at increasing the agent compensation early in agent's career encouraging greater agent activity.
In addition manager bonus is depended on their recruiting activity and the success of their agents.
If you think about 2013 we tweak an existing system.
In 2014 what we're introducing is a complete revision to our bonus system.
When we tweaked the system we didn't test the same because it's a slight change and all changes were based on the experience of our leadership and our sales.
Before we changed a bonus system throughout the company we do test the same from six of our offices from smaller to larger offices we tested the change in bonus at the agent and manager level and based on those test results we're confident that we'll see an increase in recruiting activity among the managers and the agents.
And just to be clear when you say you tested is this essentially asking the individuals involved how they would respond? Both.
When we test we take the actual new bonus system and we install that bonus system in the different SGA offices where we're testing the same.
So it's a live test with a new bonus system and then we measure those recruiting those retention those activity results with that new bonus system.
And we certainly received feedback from the field before we introduced this to field.
We talked about this with all the SGAs and we talked with the leadership council within the SGA group.
So we've tested their response as we showed them the results of the test.
We received feedback and we made minor changes based on the feedback.
But basically the installation followed a testing of this new bonus system.
And we'll take our next question from Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
I was just wondering if you could just revisit just one last time here on American Income.
Do you think that there might be an issue of competition because I don't think that that's been the case in the past but I am just wondering if maybe there has been some ramping up of some of your competitors maybe in some of your regions and that could be the cause for the weaker recruiting and retention? So if you could address that? And then I have a follow-up.
Actually the issue is not competition.
The American Income really doesn't have a competition within their field force within their sales.
As we study the sales we don't see that we are involved in replacing the policies nor our policy is replaced.
When you look at the lack of growth in 2013 this really a result of not increasing our agent counts.
And the agent count was a result of two things.
We had a decline in agent count.
We've seen a lower retention of the agents and we did not achieve our recruiting objectives.
The two go hand-in-hand.
So we think with our new systems as we inspect our existing recruiting systems we need to increase our recruiting objectives and we want to work on the decline in our actual agent terminations.
And Joanne I would add that we feel like as far as retention is narrated we need to tweak the bonuses to get more money in their hands earlier in order to help them survive their first year because we know that once they have survived their first year they'll persist better going forward.
And to do that we also had to incentivize the managers to recruit and train more and that's the tweaks that Larry was talking about tweak to do those two things.
I just want to follow-up and say that if you look at the history of the American Income it's not unusual to see a very strong sales year followed by a slower sales year.
And so given the double-digit increase in sales and agent counts in 2012 it's not surprising that we struggled somewhat in 2013.
We think about agent growth and the growth of American Income as a bit of a stair step process.
And so we're hoping that we've come to the end of the stairs.
We're going to step upward this year as we see greater agent recruiting a better retention within the agency.
Yes.
I recall your stair step function comments previously.
I guess one last follow-up on that do you think that maybe the recruiting targets haven't been met maybe because the unemployment rate in the U.S.
has improved? I don't think so because when Gary and I look across the agency what we're seeing there are plenty of resumes that are within those individual agencies.
There's no shortage of candidates.
It's really an activity which is having recruits in its office and then turning those recruits into national agents and then returning those agents to their first year.
So I don't think unemployment rates really have much of an impact on American Income.
And then just a completely separate subject now that the Family Heritage I guess is kind of up and running you're still rolling out I guess new offices and stuff do you see anything on the M&amp;A landscape that could interest you? Not at this moment we continue to look as we talked about before we're fairly narrow on our scope.
We're looking for companies that are in the middle income market similar to other companies and that have either captive agencies or direct control distribution.
We haven't seen that many candidates recently but we'll continue to look.
And we'll take our next question from Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Can you talk a little bit about the 8% growth within direct response and maybe the mix of that in terms of what's coming from the new higher face amount policies? And then along the line is there any changes in kind of the behavior experience you've seen early on with those higher face amount consumers? We are seeing positive results from the higher face amount the adult products and all the all of the issued policies about 50 000 are actually still a small percentage of our total net premium.
It does drive the increase in our total adult net premium.
What I mean by that Christopher is that if we don't make a $100 000 offer it may result in their final sale the people may elect a smaller-face policy.
So it's an overall lift to the sales as they cross $100 000 offers.
As we look at our test we expect in 2014 the total we're seeing the same favorable results.
So from 2014 we're going to roll out more of those campaigns with a higher face mailings and we have rate adjustments based on those additional test results.
And any plans to expand the face amount value further to get into additional markets? Well not really.
I think what we're looking now is we're comfortable with the face amount the other initiatives will be testing different rates different packaging down to different creative to reach that customer.
And other expansion will be internet or electronic media continue to see our greatest growth there.
So we have different campaigns aimed reaching more consumers in that middle income market electronically.
And Chris although the prescription drug access to those records have allowed us to do a little more underwriting than we've done in the past.
It's helped us to give out from the 50 000 to the 100 000 face amount.
In direct response you really can't do enough underwriting to justify showing face amount above that.
And then you've targeted kind of overtime 10% growth in agent count in American income.
Wondering if that's still a range that you think is achievable and what's the environment that we need to be in to achieve those maybe both at macro as well micro level? Chris as a good rule of thumb our projected agent count growth for 2014 is not that high.
We're currently at 5 000 agents.
The projected agent count for yearend 2014 is between 5 500 and 5 600 agents.
That's a 5% to 6% growth.
In the past you've talked about kind of over time a 10% growth is that still a level of agent count growth that you think is kind of achievable? And then again kind of what type of environment do we need to be in to kind of get those agent growth levels? Surely it's achievable and we think we'll achieve that in the future.
And we need to se it's certainly in the year and we need to see what the effect these two initiatives will have on agent recruiting with the managers on the agent retention so as we see the effect of those two initial use we could get closer to 10% but right now based on test best on our best judgment we think it will be a little lighter for 2014.
And we'll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> My question is on direct response as well and it's really more around I think you had mentioned a lower level of DAC amortization but I don't recall if that was specifically the direct response but then there was also a comment about the ability to defer some of the internet-related acquisition costs.
Could you just help us understand the net impact of those things how do we think about that as in terms of the margin direct response is doing something around 25% 25.5% margin currently.
It looks like that's about two points higher than it was historically.
Is that about the right way to think about that? John first of all in the amortization we've seen slightly lower amortization this year and we think that's due to the improved persistency from the conservation program but the biggest challenge is the deferral of those internet expenses.
I think we talked about this in the second quarter when we made the change under the new accounting rules for deferred acquisition costs that were adopted a couple of years we had a certain amount of record keeping evidence to show that these costs are leading to direct sales of the policies.
And we finally were able to demonstrate that early this year and as a result beginning of the second quarter we started to deferring those costs.
Now what the impact to that was within 2012 our non-deferred acquisition expenses were 3.3% of premium.
This year there is 1.6% of premium.
It was due to that fall of those costs.
And so we were 23% private margin in 2012 we ended this year right at 25% and we expected to be at that level going forward.
And we will take our next question from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Question on margins it seems like really the underwriting margins have been the main driver for earnings growth in the foreseeable or in the recent past.
Is that story pretty much over or are there other leverage to pull to further improve margins? Well I think there is improved persistency.
It helps our amortization.
As we talked about we can continue to improve persistency somewhat.
Controlling our non-deferred acquisition costs that we were just talking about gives us some more opportunities but I don't look for big changes in the margins.
Pretty high they are and I don't know that we can increase some great deal.
Before you hang up I would just add Gary that that is you're right in 2012 we had a significant initiative as we really changed over to that variable cost model where we had a big reduction to those non-deferred cost and then as we talked about the internet costs here in 2013.
We really don't see significant movements in those non-deferred costs as we have here those last couple of years.
And then switching gears to American Income and headcount there again.
I guess I was a little surprised by going for 5% to 6% growth in headcount there given that you're coming out with a new initiative that pretty much is going to impact three full quarter of this year and not very strong prior year results so why wouldn't growth year be closer to 10% long-term range? The long-term range I hope it is closer to 10% but we just came out from a year in which agent growth was flat.
We didn't have that kind of growth.
Again we tested these new initiatives at six offices but we have 75 American Income offices that we've rolled this out into.
And it's just too early to see the results of those initiatives.
I think we'll have a better guidance in terms of agency growth at the end of the first quarter and at the second quarter.
Again we think the growth at American Income will be stronger in the third and fourth quarter.
Some time in third quarter call we'll see the real effects of these initiatives and obviously the sales growth will attract the agent growth.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
I'm not sure whether you touched on this earlier but could you talk about the Medicare supplement market kind of how you see that playing out given healthcare reform and Medicare Advantage of funding that sort of things.
What do you think is coming over the next 12 months? Brian you want to talk about the Medicare Advantage? We are confidently looking at various proposals that are coming about with regards to Medicare reform.
It seems like every quarter couple of trends a year there are various proposals.
The most recent had been put forth by Senate Finance and those include to consider merging the part A part B deductible various reforms to the coverage but nothing right now is firmed up.
That is something that I continue to monitor almost daily.
And I don't know whether you described sales outlook in that category for 2014.
But are there any expectations that you can share? We are seeing strong Medicare supplemental growth in the individual market.
This year we had about 20% growth in individual sales.
It's harder to predict the group sales those tend to be a little lumpier in a sense that they either get a large case or you don't those tend to come in more in the fourth quarter than they do in the first quarter.
But Mark overall I think we're looking for growth somewhere between 10% and 20% as far as the Medicare supplemental sales as Larry mentioned.
The reason for the big range is we're just not sure what the group sales are going to be.
And you'd ask about the Medicare Advantage and the Affordable Care Act.
There are subsidies that are proposed to be eliminated.
I don't know that we've actually seen that play out and what the effect of that is yet to Medicare Advantage.
Right.
But presumably more positive when Medicare Advantage if it is more restrained perhaps? That will be [multiple speakers].
Yes.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
I'll turn it back to our presenters for any closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those were our comments.
And we'll talk to you again next quarter.
And that concludes today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2013 10-K and any subsequent Form 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the first quarter was $137 million or $1.52 per share a per share increase of 9% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $133 million or $1.48 per share 17% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity as of March 31 was 15.5% and our book value per share was $39.68 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share was $46.85 a 2% increase.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $489 million and life underwriting margins increased 6% to $141 million.
The growth in underwriting margin exceeded the premium growth due to lower amortization on our deferred acquisition cost and the deferral of certain direct response Internet acquisitions cost that had not been deferred prior to the second quarter of 2013.
The lower amortization rate is a result of improvements and persistency attributable to our ongoing conservation program and is incorporated in our guidance.
For full year we expect life underwriting margin to increase approximately 3% to 5% over 2013.
The growth rate for the year will be less than the first quarter growth rate primarily because the direct response Internet cost will be on a comparable basis for the remainder of the year.
Net life sales were $89 million up 5% compared to first quarter of last year and up 7% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D declined 1% to $219 million and health underwriting margins declined 1% to $49 million.
For the full year we expect health underwriting margin to decline from 2% to 4%.
Health sales increased 34% to $32 million due primarily to the increase in group Medicare supplement sales.
Administrative expenses were $44 million for the quarter 1% more than a year ago.
For the full year we anticipate that administrative expenses will be up around 1% and be approximately 5.7% of premium.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations.
Thank you Gary.
Before we get into the market operations I would like to point out that the agent count information on our website now includes an average agent count for the first quarter of 2014 in addition to the quarter end counts we have historically provided.
Due to significant fluctuation that can occur from week to week we believe that adding an average agent count for the quarter will provide more meaningful information regarding agent trends.
Now let's look at the results of our marketing operations for the first quarter.
First let's discuss Direct Response which generates approximately 35% of our life premiums.
We are pleased with the Direct Response results.
Life premiums were up 6% to $178 million and life underwriting margin increased 15% to $45 million.
Net life sales were up 9% to $40 million.
We are continuing to see significant production growth generated by our lower rates adult insurance offerings and electronic media.
We expect life sales growth for the full year 2014 to be in the range of 6% to 9%.
Now American Income which generates approximately 38% of our life premiums; American Income's life premiums were up 7% to $186 million and life underwriting margin was up 7% to $60 million.
Net life sales increased 1% for the quarter to $38 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the first quarter was 5 500 down 2% from a year ago but up 4% during the quarter.
The average agent count for the first quarter was 5 298.
On our last call we indicated that we expect the sales to be flat for the first half of the year and then ramp up in the second half as changes in the compensation system kicked in.
Despite significant weather related difficulties around the country life sales increased slightly.
We believe the changes implemented early in 2014 began to have a positive impact during the first quarter.
We are seeing improvement in the percentage of agent submitting business and the average premium per application.
While the average agent count for the quarter was lower than the count at the end of the fourth quarter we saw strong and steady growth during March.
While it is still early we believe that agent retention will be positively impacted by the compensation changes.
We opened a new office in the first quarter and we plan to open five more during the remainder of the year.
We expect that life sales growth for the full year of 2014 to be within a range of 3% to 6% with most of the growth coming in the third and fourth quarters.
Now Liberty National.
At Liberty National life premiums declined 2% to $69 million.
Our life underwriting margin declined 10% to $17 million.
Net life sales grew 4% to $7 million; our net health sales increased 25% to $4 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 451 up 6% from a year ago and up 1% during the quarter.
The average agent count for the full quarter was 1 400 while this is lower than the count at the end of 2013 we saw a steady increase to the last half of the quarter.
The first quarter sales increases were higher than we had anticipated due obviously to improvements in agent productivity and activity levels.
We opened another new office of Liberty in the first quarter and we expect to open four more new offices of Liberty during the remainder of 2014.
We will continue to expand into more heavily populated and less penetrated areas to generate long-term agency growth of Liberty.
We expect to see total life and health sales growth for the full year 2014 in the range of 3% to 6%.
Now Family Heritage.
Health premiums increased 7% to $49 million our health underwriting margin increased 16% to $11 million and health net sales declined 8% to $10 million.
The agent count also declined during the first quarter.
We believe these disappointing results were due in large part to weather related issues that affected Family Heritage to a greater extent than other distribution channels.
On a positive note we saw improvements in agent counts throughout March and we are seeing positive sales momentum during March and April.
We still expect growth in health sales of Family Heritage for the full year of 2014 to be in the range of 2% to 6%.
Now United American General Agency health premiums grew 1% to $78 million in our General Agency; net health sales grew 116% to $14 million.
The increase is due primarily to a large group Medicare supplement case; we also continue to see strong growth with our individual Medicare supplement sales.
Although it is difficult to project Medicare group Medicare supplement sales activity our guidance for the full year assumes General Agency net health sales growth of approximately 25% to 35%.
Medicare Part D.
Premium revenue from Medicare Part D grew 8% to $83 million while the underwriting margin grew 19% to $10 million.
Currently sales for the quarter were $31 million compared to $9 million in the year ago quarter due to the increase on low income subsidized enrollees for 2014 and a large employer group case.
The midpoint of our 2014 guidance assumes an increase of 16% to 17% in Part D premiums for the full year.
I'll now turn the call back to Gary.
Thanks Larry.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $57 million an increase of $1 million or 2% over the first quarter of 2013.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income was up 7%.
For the full year we expect excess investment income to increase by about 4% to 6%.
On a per share basis the increase should be about 9% to 11% compared to 2013.
The growth rate expected for the full year 2014 is higher than that of the first quarter so the excess investment income in the first quarter of 2013 was the highest of any quarter in 2013 due to the impact of [calls of] [ph] higher yielding securities during the first and second quarters.
Now regarding the investment portfolio.
Invested assets were $13.2 billion including $12.6 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Out of the fixed maturities $12.1 billion are investment grade with an average grade of A minus.
And below investment grade bonds were $552 million compared to $573 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.4% compared to 4.7% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.6x the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 16%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus same as a year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1 billion compared to $390 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
The increase is due primarily to recent declines in market interest rates.
Regarding investment yield in the first quarter we invested $158 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and financial sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 5.4% and average rating of BBB+ at an average life of 25 years.
For the entire portfolio the first quarter yield was 5.92% down eight basis points from the 6% yield in the first quarter of 2013.
For full year of 2014 we expect the portfolio to yield approximately 5.9%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the first quarter we spent $108 million to buy 1.4 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $76.09.
So far in April we have used $33 million to purchase another 427 000 shares.
So for the full year through today we spent $141 million of parent company cash to acquire 1.8 million shares.
The parent started the year with liquid assets of $60 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow in 2014.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
We expect free cash flow in 2014 to be around $380 million.
Thus including the $60 million available from assets on hand as of the beginning of the year we currently expect to have around $440 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
As previously noted to date in 2014 we have used $141 million to purchase Torchmark shares leaving approximately $300 million available to the parent for the remainder of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiary.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
At December 31 2013 our consolidated RBC ratio was 341% and adjusted capital was approximately $70 million in excess of that required for the targeted RBC ratio.
We do not anticipate any changes to our targeted RBC levels in 2014.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2014 we expect that our net operating income will be in a range of $6.08 per share to $6.32 per share.
Those are our comments.
We'll now open the call up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just had a couple of questions.
First Larry you mentioned weather a couple of times.
So maybe talk about if you did see an impact on your sale? Any delay for health or direct response from weather and whether that affected recruiting as well? And then secondly on the agent count you saw a nice entries at American Income but if I look over the past couple of years your agent count in the first quarter increased a decent amount I think up 17% in the first quarter of 2012 8% in the first quarter of 2013 and then last year it actually declined in the other quarter.
So are there seasonality and what your expectations are for the agent count at American Income through the rest of the year? For Liberty National and for American Income the severe weather did have a slight negative impact on both sales and recruiting.
And at Family Heritage the agencies were primarily in rural areas for a majority of the sales involved travel of large distances to market the product it was challenging to overcome the setbacks and in addition at Family Heritage the inclement weather coincided with the company's major sales incentive weeks.
With respect to the agent retention we are not expecting a drop in agent retention at American Income later this year.
We believe we will continue to see the positive impact from the changes and compensation we introduced in January we will have better information regarding agent retention trends later in the summer.
Well primarily we are seeing three positive trends in agent productivity at American Income.
Our total bonus earners increased in the first quarter [the signs] [ph] of agents submitting new business on weekly basis increased and the average premiums submitted also increased.
Those three indicators would tell us that we believe our retention is going to better over the next quarter and through the remainder of the year.
And with Direct Response any disruption or any effect on your sales with the disruption in mail delivery and stuff over -- and actually at Liberty and American Income have you seen better trends in April as the weather has gotten a little better or not? We are seeing the same trends in April at American Income and Liberty.
Direct Response is also affected by the bad weather particularly in the insert media now some of the delivery of the insert media was delayed and that's lost because when you have bad weather when the next mailing goes out it’s on top of the first mailing but at the go get Direct Response had a strong first quarter and so they had fairly minor impact upon the Direct Response operation.
Our next question is from the line of Eric Bass with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I was hoping you could discuss current trends in the med sub business a little bit more.
Are you seeing any pickup in demand for individual policies or any increase in disenrollment from Med Advantage at this point? The Medicare Advantage disenrollment did not have a major impact upon the company.
It was our estimate that in the first quarter our production increased by approximately 10% to 15% because of Medicare disenrollment.
The growth we are seeing in 2014 in the general agency really comes from the individual sales which is a result of strong recruiting and its implementation of new e-application and the group Medicare supplement we benefited from a the large case within the first quarter and that business tends to be little bit lumpy.
We are hopeful of seeing more large cases during the year.
But our guidance does not reflect that.
Okay and maybe what are some of the dynamics in the group market in terms of competition or its margin trends in that business? Do you have had some relative good sales in recent periods? This is lumpy it is a competitive market.
And they are continually holding different large group cases and medium group cases.
If we price to a profit margin and we either receive the business or we do not receive the business.
Okay and then just one on Part D.
You had pretty strong margins there.
Can you remind us whether you are expecting or what's assumed in guidance for Part D margins for the year and should we expect that they can hold up at first quarter level? It's pretty early in 2014 to really measure our claims experience but we expect margins in Part D for the year 2014 to be in the range of 10% to 13%.
Our next question is from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
I have a couple of questions.
First on Liberty National's margins which I noticed were off a little bit this quarter.
And seemed to be a little -- going maybe the wrong direction certainly relative to other segments.
So I was curious just to what was causing that and if you thought that would correct itself as the year progresses? Well the impact of - the first quarter was really in a decline so we had higher claims in the first quarter.
And also the claims for the first quarter of last year were little bit low.
At Liberty the claims are high in the first half of the year than it’s - higher than they are in the second half and it just so happen that is the first quarter was high - this year last year the second was over 40% as a percentage of policy obligation so it's little bit of seasonality here for the year though we expect the policy obligation at Liberty be around 38% to 39% and that's compared to a little over 38% for the last year.
Okay.
And then on the excess investment income side.
With yields pulling back a little bit kind of beginning of the year are you still comfortable with the initial guidance you gave for the full year I think it was 5% to 7% growth? Yes I feel comfortable with the guidance we gave earlier.
We did lower though our new money rate from 5.5 to 5.25.
5.5 is what we used in our previous guidance.
As we have seen that market rates decline somewhat though we feel confident that we can hit the prior quarter and at that -- again we will see increase in growth as year goes on.
Okay.
And if I could just may be a quick numbers question something I missed.
Larry I think you talked about 25% or 35% sales growth guidance for the year.
I missed through what segment that was? That's for the United American General agency; we said health sales from the United American Independent Agency to be up approximately 25% to 35% group count Medicare supplement sales we said to be up about 35%.
Our next question is from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Please go ahead Hey good morning thanks.
I guess first I want to follow up on the med sub discussion.
So you have a pretty good outlook for the year.
It sounds like there were a lot of dissimilarities in med advantage but I am just curious is the competition increasing in med sub just based on this idea that med advantage funding pressures could go on over time? I think med sub is really market if you look at the demographics certainly there are many people turning 65 so we are growing market over time.
Our sales really are depended upon assumption of any disenrollment from Medicare advantage.
What we are focusing on these recruiting agents to sell Medicare supplement business and we have implemented a new e-application system to makes easier for the agents to write the business to United American Insurance Company so their growth is really driven here by strong agent recruiting and e-application process.
Okay have you seen any changes in the competitive environment over the last year or so? I think it is really the same environment as I said we saw net increase disenrollments in the first quarter.
As we look at the replacement forms is our estimate that those first quarter Medicare this Medicare advantage disenrollment led to an increase in production of about 10% to 15%.
Okay and then I just have a couple of quick weather related one.
You noted a little bit higher claims at Liberty which I know is typical of the first quarter from a seasonal perspective but wondering if you thought the bad weather had caused any uptick in mortality rates in the first quarter.
I don't think the bad weather affected the mortality rate.
And Gary said about the seasonal pattern as we looked back at Liberty over the many years the claims tend to be higher in the first half of the year than the second half of the year.
If you may be the first quarter so our -- and may be second quarter it was last year but I don't think there is anything surprising here.
Okay and then just last one on Family Heritage the sales weakness from the weather.
And do you think that uniquely impacted that business because of its rural focus? So do you think that was more of an industry issue for kind of all supplemental health --? I think uniquely affected Family Heritage.
Again most of our agency forces for Liberty and typically for American Income in urban areas.
And Family Heritage those agencies were primarily at rural areas as for the sales force travel long distances to market products given the bad weather in the upper Midwest and the East and even the South it really had a negative impact upon Family Heritage.
In addition the Family Heritage they have major incentive weeks and it so happen that the bad weather coincided with several of those major sales incentive weeks.
So the impact was greater at Family Heritage and other two agencies.
Our next question is from Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much good morning.
I guess first question is just over the past several years.
We've heard from several competitors the talk about moving down market.
Maybe not all the way down to your target customer were met suddenly rolled out its partnership with Wal-Mart in some states others are seemingly working with -- we looks like another big box in department store retailers as customers seemed to be more willing to purchase through retail channels.
So wondering if you are seeing any signs of increased competition or any comments you can make around those strategies and impact it could have on your distribution? If you look at our Direct Response operation and we also looked for the each of the agency operations and we have not seen any evidence of increased competition that field in our direct marketing.
Okay any comments just in terms of may be that direct through kind of the retail distribution versus mail or internet? Oh quite a chance of a product that doesn't sell itself they need to sold to an agency so we believe in the agency system but we think we have had great success with Direct Response in all three channels in Direct Response through the direct mail the electronic media fastest growing segment is electronic media.
And part of the reason I can see we are not seeing an increased competition if you look at the electronic media in the first quarter; our inquiries were up 40% compared to same period a year ago.
And we don't think that will continue for the full year we are expecting electronic media inquiries to be up at least 20% for the full year.
And so electronic air and electronic media as we focus on different areas.
We are comfortable that globe will continue to grow and it supports the other two segments other two channels in its distribution.
Okay and then last question.
Just wanted to get some perspective in terms of sort of how much runway you think you have with the higher face amount policies you guys are telling selling direct.
Before answering (inaudible) it is an excellent question the actual numbers of course the issue is higher face amount has increased by offering the higher face amount we are also seeing even bigger increase and policies issue across all policy face amount.
So we are continuing to explore higher face amount what we are finding it that helps our sales and the other smaller face amounts that remains more offer that we really rolled out in the third and fourth quarter different rates and different real products with testing started all products now sometime at runway we will try to addressing that in the third and fourth quarter that we are seeing result of those additional tests.
And when you talked about test are you talking geographically even exploring further increases in the face amount or both? It is geographic it is different packaging it is different writers doing -- there is lot of different testing we do with these all products.
We have talked about in the past digital $30 000 maximum face amount so we have increased that up to around $100 000 if your question is are we going to further up from $100 000 that's I am not sure that happens it is little bit hard in Direct Response because we can't do greater deal of underwriting it would be difficult to go higher face amount than that.
Understood great thanks appreciate the comments.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Broader question on Family Heritage.
You did talk about weather impact in the quarter and expecting a better March and April you've also talked about in the past improving some of the kind of recruitment tools of that business but I guess what I am really curious about is if you look at a level of sales and if you look at the level of recruiting generally I assume it is probably been a little disappointing and I am just curious to how you think about the performance of that business broadly relative to how you originally thought about it when you bought it? I don't think it has been disappointing.
I think we made some adjustments in the system from recruiting last year.
So you look at this year year-to-date it was disappointed first quarter because it was hit by the bad weather if you go to the second quarter we are seeing some positive indicators for both recruiting and sales.
Our sales projections for 2014 are in range of 2% to 6%.
We think the agent count at the end of the year for 2014 in a range of 600 to 725 agents.
Now the growth at Family Heritage is going to come from the increased in the sales force.
And so that's our focus and we believe that it is sales force grows and significant growth in production follows that sales growth.
Mark it is really-- it is the case when we bought the company we knew we are going to-- there will be significant changes made to the way recruiting was done we expected this would take a little time to because they may (inaudible) jumping on so we are not disappointed with it we excepted this time as a matter of fact it will be little air space.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one follows up on the American Income agent count.
You had a very strong first year improvement but you did see a little bit of fall off in renew year.
Is that just fluctuation or anything else going on there? I think the fall off is an indication of the retention issues we had over the last 15 to 18 months.
As we see better retention first year agents would expect to see in the third fourth quarter and those veteran agents numbers will grow.
When you think about it in any quarter you are going to loose certain veteran agents.
If you are not adding new agents that entered that 13 month that number will be flat or slightly drop.
Mark on price I think that the -- when you look at total agent count and the management count is pretty much flat of last year but the growth is come in the writing agents that's a good indicator because as we grow the number of agents writing agents that is the ones who will go into management so we think that's leading indicator that we will see increase in management as well.
Our next question is from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everybody.
Couple of numbers first.
Frank I think you typically talked about how you expect yield I mean you said that the yield should be about 5.9% for the year on average.
But how should that develop quarterly? Could you give us that? Yes.
I think it drops towards 592 for the first quarter and we really think dropping probably just 1% to 2% basis point sequentially over the course of the quarters.
Okay and then one of the things that I noticed on Part D there seemed to be significant changes in PBM fees? And anything up with that?  Yes Steven including the PBM fees is a new fee that we have stayed under the Affordable Care Act with over 1% of premium and in addition to that we negotiated a contract there is additional calls for an option that we agreed to where we could renegotiate the drug (inaudible) in 2014 so that add that as well.
Okay great and then just a more general question.
Exchanges group-- probably a bit overwrought all the discussion about exchanges with regards to active employees but it definitely seems to be making headway in the retiree market.
Given the big group sale you made any does United American plan that are you on these exchanges through the agencies does this affect you at all? No we are not in exchanges currently and we are not exploring opportunities in the supplemental health market and so as we look at the exchanges of Obama care we look at those opportunities we know there going to be gap there will be product need to be filled so that's our focus but to be on exchanges to -- Larry I was talking about the private exchanges like (inaudible) or somebody like that.
And we are not on those exchanges.
I thought (inaudible) probably big exchanges okay Will those developed will those affect the market that you entered? We don't think so.
Certainly that going to affect our individual market and then the group those are courted individually and so those groups it could be competition but we think also be competitive in those markets.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead Thank you good morning.
Have you got more flexible perhaps open up the top end in terms of the size of the group that you are willing to quote in the med sub business? Should we look for more big lumps perhaps in the future? It is possible.
We do hope it grew so that's possible.
It is almost impossible to predict that business so it is an opportunistic business and we are going to maintain our profit margins so we don't have proper margin basically size of the group.
We maintain that this is a profit margin or this medium in a very large group.
Are they more prospects so you quoting more for those very large group? I don't think it is more or less.
I think they looked across the market and that's what that marketing group does is they go out and they are trying contacts and make groups and brokers as possible.
And they are willing to write any size group obviously there will be less competition.
If you have a group it has 2000 members versus 20 000 members.
Our next question is from the line Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much and good morning to everyone.
I have a general question about the health business and then a narrow one about the health business.
My first question is as follows it feels like it wasn't terribly long ago say within the last one to two years-- that two years ago that the health business was well in decline and with premiums falling sharply and now they are falling a lot less sharply indeed they were essentially flat.
It seemed back then at least to me that Torchmark was heading towards becoming overwhelmingly a life company and much less of a health company than it had been in the past.
My question is as we look forward given the strength that you are enjoying now in Medicare supplement and elsewhere in health insurance do you anticipate - is the health business turning around really is what I am asking and do you anticipate a more balanced mixed between life and health perspectively and then what you would have said a year ago? I guess if you remember if you look at 2010 2011 and 2012 the decline you saw in health line were largely the result of the larger block of business that we wrote it would have been subject to the Healthcare Reform Act we decided to exit that line of business in 2010 as you see (inaudible) client I think what you are seeing is a stabilization our healthcare business because a large part of America supplement business is growing in individual and also growing in a group.
Long term our focus remained on life insurance we certainly like the health insurance business we find the life insurance business to be more predictable and so vis-à-vis is sales growth and it is easy to maintain and captive agency force in a life insurance business than is in the health insurance business.
I would agree with Larry.
We do prefer the life business because normally the high margin and that's where our excess investment income come from I think there is a point also in the niche that we have in the health insurance side.
But for example this year we look at the premium income being flat that's actually an improvement over the years you talked about Larry but we expect to see some growth there but it is not going be such growth that it has on life side and that's staying with us.
My second question is similar but more focused and it is focused on the Medicare Part D business.
Again my -- if my memory shows me correctly when Medicare Part D first began several years ago you had a burst of business and then there was sort of uncertainty as to whether this drug related business drug insurance related business would continue at the pace that it had been.
It was suggested that it might pulled out sharply and now it seems to have stabilized.
My question do you see Medicare Part D remaining a meaningful growing a meaningful and growing part of the business? I think where we stand now I think it is a meaningful part of our businesses but to say whether it is going to grow or how big is it going to be in the future is difficult because it is such competitive market.
In addition to that there is a difference between the order of time market and non auto zone market there are different levels there uncertainty there and also when you take a look at it we like the business but the profit margin there is lower than say it is on our health business and life business.
So it is less more competitive it is lower margin.
We are glad to have the business but it is hard to predict in the future how big it will be or it will be -- even it will be there.
In fact as Gary said we look at Part D it is an opportunistic market every year we have been to achieve our target profit margins every year we are going to gain regions or we are going to loose regions.
Now currently we have about 20 to 25 regions and 35 possible regions.
We hope to maintain that level of regions but competitors decide about the business and we could loose regions in that competitive business if the auto assign market becomes extremely competitive we could lose most our auto assigns but we still have our regular market group market to rely on.
Our next question is from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Hey good morning everybody.
I just have two -- I think everybody everything is pretty much being covered.
I am just curious how big was the large group case that was written this quarter in United Agency on the Medicare supplement just to give us a sense how many lives? On the Part D case it was large case.
I think it was approximately twenty hundred new lives and the annual premium amounts about $ 7 million.
Agee</strong>  That's helpful thank you.
And then I just have just a quick numbers question.
Option compensation expense grew on year-over-year basis the level that you have seen in the 1Q probably about we should expect to see going forward? Yes actually John it will be Q1 although little bit higher it will grade down just slightly over the remainder of the year but I think on an annual basis and midpoint of our guidance you should probably expected to be around near 4% of our net operating income before the stock option expense.
Agee</strong>  Okay and I think I sneak one more in.
When you think about the range for your guidance the 10% to 13% range for the margin expectation for Medicare Part D is that contemplated in the low and the high or is there something more midpoints built in there?  Yes the midpoint as you get closer to the midpoint you will be looking at relayed at around expectation it might be 11.5% to 12%.
Our next question is from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Jenny Capital.
Please go ahead Good morning Torchmark.
I love your annual report letter kudos to whoever is in charge of writing it.
I noticed that towards the end when you talk about use of free cash flow for the first time you talked about the special dividend should the stock get at above your proprietary definition of intrinsic value.
And with the stock bouncing to a new high -- let me step back you did your active in the first quarter as the stock was down I was wondering if the caveat for that would drive the special dividend in that sort of-- if you had another rocket shape year for the stock or is it -- would the stock hitting sort of all time high or we are getting in the neighborhood where the special dividend becomes a more reasonable option? You guys have been so good on capital management and investment management that I respect your judgment a lot.
Well Bob first of all as we said in our letter our first priority is to return the excess cash to shareholder.
And we over the years we have-- the share repurchase have outweighed our dividends that this last year saw the first year we really hit at our share price is gotten close to what we think intrinsic value and so that's how we mention the possibility of special dividend and that would be something we would have to discuss with our Board about but absent of an acquisition or absence of other cash we provided at the strong return to shareholders we would consider that if we felt we needed to send share repurchase because of valuation but we are not there yet and we forget about this share repurchase to the first quarter but as you said we have another 30% increase in share price that we still not expect but we did -- we don't want to -- we recognize the fact that we buyback the shares at prices -- we can't just buy and just buy for the shareholders so that's what we have to conversation about the special dividend it has been possibility.
I applaud your logic and it is very sound and so you are somewhere in between closing not near the point where you would consider it I guess that was the bare that was the sort of rough -- From a historical standpoint we are closer to the intrinsic day or what we feel the value of stock is than we have been in past years.
But we don't -- we are not close enough that we think we should suspend the repurchase.
And it is not fixed point It is an ongoing analysis we look at that every quarter discuss that with our board of directors and again we will make a decision we think is in the best interest of the shareholders.
Our next question is from the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yes most of my questions have been answered but I just want to go back to Medicare income for a minute because you quoted some metrics in the Q&amp;A regarding the fact that bonuses were up and the weekly submission were up as well as total submission and I am wondering if you could give us a little bit of feel as to how that spread out through the quarter and if you think that all of the changes that you have made are really starting to hit the stride now or if there is still kind of on the cost.
Thanks.
We have better sales in the first quarter than we expected we had American Income Life insurance company and that should be driven by the percentage of agency new business on repay basis we didn't really see the increase in the agents until about mid February.
We are seeing positive trends with a new competition program from mid February on not just new current agents; we are seeing the number of recruits and positive trends.
It is little bit early to see what the effect of that new compensation system is going to be.
I think it will be probably mid July probably August and we have enough data from January February and March that we can look at their third fourth fifth month retention to see the real effect of that is having.
Okay great then I will check out on that front thanks very much.
(Operator Instructions) We have a follow up question from the line of Mark Hughes please go ahead.
Thank you.
How much of the Globe Life inquiry volume or new policy volume is coming by electronic media? I think we asked I am trying to understand question you are asking the four percentage of the Direct Response sales come from electronic media.
Exactly.
That's 40% of our sales comes from electronic media and that will be in multi media I am including incoming total calls the internet social medium mobile search ads.
Mark it is hard to give an exact percentage because as we have more of electronic internet traffic we see a greater presence for social media and also supports our Direct Response and answer media operations for -- so they three work in tandem but we will give rough estimate of about 20% of new sales come from electronic media.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Major for closing remarks.
All right thank you for joining us this morning.
Those were our comments.
And we will talk you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2013 10-K and any subsequent Form 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike good morning everyone.
Please note that the share and per share information in our comments this morning has been adjusted to reflect the three-for-two stock split that was effective on July 1st.
Net operating income for the second quarter was $136 million or $1.02 per share a per share increase of 7% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $131 million or $0.98 per share a 2% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity as of June 30 was 15.4% and our book value per share was $27.02 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share increased 24% to $33.93.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $492 million and life underwriting margins increased 4% to $141 million.
Life sales increased 11% to $102 million.
For the full year we expect the dollar amount of our life underwriting margins to increase around 3% to 4%.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D declined 1% to $215 million and health underwriting margin also declined 1% to $50 million.
Health filed increased 21% to $29 million and the full year we expect the dollar amount of our health margins to be about end of last year.
Administrative expenses were $45 million for the quarter 3% more than a year ago.
For the full year we anticipate that administrative expenses will be around 1% and be approximately 5.7% of premiums.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations.
Thank you Gary.
I would first like to discuss American income.
An American income life premium was about 7% $190 million and life underwriting margin was up 6% to $60 million.
Net life sales were $45 million up 9% to primarily to increase agent counts and the higher percentage of agent submitting business that producing agent count at the end of the second quarter was 5 890 up 6% from the year ago.
The average agent count for the second quarter was 5 744 up 8% from the first quarter.
We expect 8% to 11% life sales growth for the full year 2014 now direct response and have direct response operation on the life premium 5% to $177 million and life underwriting margin increased to 2% to $44 million.
Net life sales were up 12% to $44 million.
We expect 8% to 10% life sales growth for the full year 2014.
Liberty National at Liberty National life premiums declined 2% to $68 million and life underwriting margin increased 6% to $18 million.
Net life sales grew 7% to $9 million and net health sales increased 22% to $4 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 500 up 17% from the year ago.
The average agent count for the second quarter was 1 492 up 7% from the first quarter.
For the full year 2014 sales growth is expected to be 4% to 6% for life and 12% to 14% for health.
Now Family Heritage.
Health premiums increased 7% to $51 million; our health underwriting margin increased 13% to $10 million.
Health net sales were up 15% to $13 million the producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 771 up 4% over a year ago.
The average agent count for the quarter was 758 up 15% from the first quarter.
We expect sales growth for the full year 2014 to be in the range from 3% to 8%.
Now the United American General Agency health premiums declined over 1% to $76 million net health sales improved 34% to $9 million of the Group Medicare supplement business is somewhat hard to predict.
We expect general agency net sales growth for the full year 2014 to be in a range of approximately 25% to 35%.
Medicare Part D premium revenue for Medicare Part D grew 16% to $85 million and the underwriting margin increased to 6% to $9 million.
The growth in underlying margin lagged behind premium growth due to the higher claims related to newly approved hepatitis C drugs.
As a result we now expect Part D margin for the year to be in range of 8% to 11% rather than the 10% to 13% that was expected earlier in the year.
R&amp;D sales for quarter were $20 million up from $8 million a year ago.
I will now turn the call back to Gary.
Thanks Larry.
I am going to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $57 million an increase of $2.4 million or 4% over the second quarter of 2013.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment in income increased 10%.
For the full year we expect excess investment income to increase by about 3% to 5%.
On a per share basis the increase should be about 8% to 10% compared to 2013.
Now regarding the investment portfolio.
Invested assets were $13.2 billion including $12.7 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Out of the fixed maturities $12.1 billion are investment grade with an average grade of A minus.
And below investment grade bonds were $563 million compared to $585 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.4% down from 4.8% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.5 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 16%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus same as a year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1.4 billion compared to $1 billion at the end of the first quarter.
The increase in unrealized gains is due primarily to the recent decline in market interest rates.
As to investment yields in the second quarter we invested $167 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and financial sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 5.7% and average rating of BBB at an average life of 21 years.
While the BBB average rating is lower than the A- BBB+ average recent years the weighted average was just below BBB+.
We haven’t changed our philosophy regarding credit quality the investment grade bonds we purchased in the quarter we had our long standing credit criteria.
The new money raise for the first quarter and second quarter for 5.4% and 4.7% respectively the mid-point of our guidance assumes a new money rate of 5% for the remainder of 2014.
For the entire portfolio the second quarter yields was 5.92% same as the first quarter of 2014 but down 3 basis points from the 5.95% yield in the second quarter of 2013.
For the full year we expect the portfolio to yield approximately 5.90%.
And I would add while we were benefited from higher new money rates we’re confident that we can have sustained growth in investment income in the current rate environment.
Now we’ll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding share repurchases and parent company assets.
In the second quarter we spent $82.2 million to buy 1.5 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $52.86.
For the full year through today we had spent $210.1 million of parent company cash to acquire 4 million shares at an average price of $51.95.
The parent started the year with liquid assets of $60 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow in 2014.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from subsidiaries plus the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
We expect free cash flow in 2014 to be around $380 million.
Thus including the $60 million available from assets on hand as of the beginning of the year we currently expect to have around $440 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
As previously noted to date in 2014 we have used $210 million to purchase Torchmark shares leaving around $230 million of cash available for the remainder of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible as for the better alternatives and if market conditions are favorable we expect the share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those spend.
We also expect to retain a pricing $50 to $60 of liquid assets as the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiary.
As stated in our previous call we have maintained our insurance company capital level at or above an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis which has historically been sufficient to maintain our ratings.
This RBC ratio is lower than some peer companies but has been sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings and the relatively lower risk of our assets and policy liability.
At December 31 2013 our consolidated RBC was 341% we deny currently anticipate any significant changes to a target RBC levels in 2014.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2014 we expect our net operating income will be within range of $4.05 per share to $4.15 per share to mid of $4.10 is $.30 lower than projected earlier in the year due primarily to the impact of higher Part D claims on underwriting and investment income.
Those are our comments.
We’ll now open the call up for questions.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just had a couple of questions on Part D.
First is it correct to assume that you're reflecting the higher drug costs related to the hepatitis C treatment in your pricing submissions for 2015? So therefore should we think of this issue being only a meaningful drag on margins in 2014 and that your target margins would revert to the level you had guided to earlier in the year for 2015?  Yes Eric for hepatitis C drug was included in our 2015 pricing Okay.
So would you -- you had guided to 10% to 13% margins for part D earlier in the year.
So is that a reasonable range to think about for 2015 at this point?  Erik I would say you look back historically we’ve been in around 10% to 11% I think for sure is 10% to 11% it could be 10% to 13% we still don’t know although we submitted our bids we still don’t know how they relate to others as how many lower income we will get.
So I think you’re safe around 10% to 11%.
Right we’ll receive those results in August and I want to give guidance on three quarter call.
Okay thank you and then one last thing to clarify.
You mentioned the cash-flow timing issues being -- pressing investment income a little bit because you have to pay the claims before you get reimbursed by the government.
Does that have any impact on your expected cash flow to the holding Company? Eric this is Frank Svoboda.
That will have a little bit of impact on the timing of the cash flow to the wholly commitment to the fact that again reduce some of our investment income.
When you look at -- we anticipate for the full year 2014 that will probably incur somewhere in the range $45 to $60 million worth of additional claims now the majority of that and maybe around 85% of that will be reimbursement CMS as you noted we don’t give reimburse from that until sometime in 2015 so we’ll have that drag we’ll see the drag on investment income here in 2014 of course that last our investment income on 2014 now there is like capital for statutory earning.
Got it but in terms of the cash flow to the holding Company your guidance for the year of the $380 million or so that's unaffected.
Correct.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Erik I would add it’s not the $50 million to $60 million it’s going to impact the cash flow to the holding company its investment income on that $56 million to [Indiscernible] or whatever of investment income impact while we can do next year.
So won’t have an impact on 2014 free cash flow or beyond 2015 free cash flow.
And we’ll take the next question from Randy Binner with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have a question about sales seasonality for life insurance and first of all I think that we’ve seen a pattern for at least the last few years were the second quarter has better sales across the board for Life but American Income might be a little bit better in the second quarter.
So the first part of my question is to confirm that that is something we should rely upon in the future and what is the cause of the better sales in the second versus the third quarter generally speaking?  Randy I think is truly generally for the year better agent activity which is a higher percentage of submitting agents in the second quarter and the third quarter.
If you look at American Income we believe the increase of sales as a result of better recruiting and improved agent retention and the increase in agent activity.
I would assume great response traditionally in second quarter has been a little bit higher than the first quarter.
Can you remind us as of why -- what is it about the second quarter that is better? One thing the second quarter your circulation is higher -- first quarter your circulation typically is little bit lower to the fourth quarter; there is some seasonality to that.
So that would result in with the lag in sales of circulation you’d see a mid-year increase in sales versus the beginning of the first quarter in direct response.
So its mail issues in Direct and then for AIA it's just people are more receptive to buying in the second versus the latter part of the year of the first quarter? The people are more receptive I think it’s only expanding the agencies.
We’re active on recruiting and with those new recruits you have a higher activity level you have more submitting agents into the middle of the first quarter to the second quarter and the third quarter.
Usually the agent recruiting is strong in the fourth quarter.
I think in part both sides of the industry is showing a great response.
There is lots of activity around the Christmas and New Year’s holiday.
And the activity first picking up in the first quarter is higher is going to the later part of the year.
Okay.
And that's helpful.
And then just focusing on AIA I think that explains why productivity peaks in the second quarter.
So as far as AIA goes this is a good sales result.
There's not a lower comp but it seems like it's turned the corner a little bit.
So would be interested in your commentary.
You mentioned you have a lot of recruiting efforts.
I think you have technology efforts through CRM and laptop presentations and that kind of stuff.
I'd be interested in what's working and what the follow through you think is on the momentum you've been able to build here at AIA.
I think the agency force of American Income has responded well to the changes we made in both our compensation and recruiting system.
We don’t expect to see momentum drop significantly.
I don’t think the agent count will increase this quickly as we did in the second quarter.
But I think we continue to see increases in agent count to the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year.
We’ve seen improvement in recruiting but also we’ve seen net increase in activity level.
I know the words percentage of agents that we have that are submitting business.
One thing we’ve talked about in the past is we’re working on retention and we’ve seen some impact types of retention although we need to do more there.
But I think for the second quarter is not increase in agent count but it also improved activity levels of the agents.
I think the other two factors the American Income; we really haven’t seen a change in agent productivity.
That’s a project sign; we keep in mind how many new agents were there at American Income.
We have good result; that we’re seeing at American Income is the increase in that middle management count.
The middle management counts grown about 10% since January 1st and middle management is really who trains the new agents in the field? So it’s a very positive development at American Income.
Sales managers you said were up 10% in the first half on the quarter? The first half of 2014 our middle management count at American Income was increased.
Hi.
Good morning.
The 8% to 11% outlook for Life net sales growth this year is a very strong result.
If we look out a bit longer term do you think high single-digit; low double-digit sales growth is sustainable? And what would be the biggest driver that? Is that mostly just growing the agent count? The biggest driver is driving the agent count and it’s also having a correct train system to keep your activity levels at levels that they are in the second quarter and we expect to be in the third quarter.
Now for 2015 such guidance we’ll give on the next call it’s a little early to give 2015 guidance.
I would say generally with Direct Response that feature the agencies results we saw in the second quarter are certainly sustainable through the end of the year.
Okay.
Great.
And then secondly the guidance you gave for the life underwriting margin to grow 3% to 4% this year that's slightly down from the 3% to 5% you said before and I think you were at about 5% year to date.
So what's driving that slight decline? Sarah we have a little bit higher declines than we anticipated at the beginning of the year.
But we’re still probably down I think for our margin under-writing margin for this year is around 28.7 we’re expecting it to be 28% 29% for the year.
But it’s not a big change.
Good morning everybody.
I look at the extra investment income guidance and I think that's dropped slightly from the last guidance.
And want to make sure; is that just by virtue of the new money rate having dropped a little bit? Or is there also a lower expectation of assets -- asset growth?  The effective new money rate is more minor factor at the midpoint of our guidance our excess investment income is about $1 million less than it was previously less than $1 million of that is from having ordinary money rate but over 1.3 million that is the impact of the cash flow as in Part D we talked about earlier it is the remainder if the other cash flow timing of those cash flow but it’s more something we might right add as the impact of the Part D that cause us to change the guidance.
That makes sense.
And then I'm sorry if I missed that but did you -- when you talked about the new guidance for excess investment income did you say what the new money rate target or guidance was for the full year?  For the remainder of the year the guidance the midpoint of guidance we use 5.0%.
Okay.
And that seems to have dropped a bit more radically than at least what I seem to be seeing in the 30-year treasury rates at least over the last quarter.
Has anything else happened there?  No I’m not sure but we’ve seen out in the market the year is all lower the treasury rates have dropped and the credit spreads have offset rates I think we dropped the 2.4% yield in the second quarter and we do think it’s going to get better in remainder of the year we started almost.
So we think we can do at least 5% there we have the midpoint.
And the next question comes from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
A few follow-up questions on part D.
My understanding is 47 states' Medicaid agencies are covering the hepatitis C drug and wondering how much of your business comes from those 3 states that aren't covering it? And how should we think about future or potential risks to the margin either up or downside?  Chris this is Frank.
I don’t have in front of me the actual number of states that we have where the state Medicaid is covering that I know that we’ve lost we’ve had some disenrollees with respect to both California and Illinois.
So to the extent that there are some of family members that are having hepatitis C there that may help us to some degree.
But I don’t really have that information with me.
Okay.
And then the repricing or pricing that you’re doing for the 2015 enrollment you note that reflects the high cost of that hepatitis C drug.
Just wondering if in that pricing you’re fully reflecting the current Gilead product or are you assuming that the cost could go even higher if they’re successful in kind of getting the approval kind of the companion hep C drug?  Yes when we’re reflecting the best information we had today and what that pricing would be on our best estimate on utilization using our experience then competition the course of our consultant and what that pricing would be and that pricing would include to the extent that there is a new drug that was come up and replace Sovaldi or -- the pricing will take into account that replacement type of a drug.
Okay.
And within your pricing for ‘14 any sense of if or what was embedded within that if anything?  Yes for ‘14 pricing we really did not include anything specifically for either one of these two new drugs.
We always include some type of an allowance and claim strength margin if you will from new drugs it will be they are in the pipeline or that will come up but the allowance that was built in here for 2014 was nothing would have accommodated the high price that’s associated with these new drugs.
Yes.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
To follow-up on the hep C drugs and make sure I got the right numbers here were you -- I think it was Gary.
Gary were you suggesting that the amount of total spend on these drugs would be $60 million for the year? And of course on a GAAP basis you would recognize the reinsurance from the government so it would be $45 million coming back so the net FX would be $15 million but the cash outflow would actually be $65 million $60 million $65 million? Frank why don’t you comment on this.
The total outlay that we’re estimating at this point in time is around $45 million to $60 million.
And we’re anticipating it’s going to be getting back from TMS their share of those total claims to be somewhere in that $43 million to $50 million range.
So we’re anticipating that our impact on underwriting income for the full year will be somewhere in the range of $7 million to $10 million.
Okay.
Frank how much has already been spent in the total outlay for this? Through June 30th the total outlay is about $24.5 million of which our share was about $4 million.
Right but it's the $24.5 million that affects next year's cash flow.
You get the money back at the end of next year.
No next November.
We’ll get the $20.5 million back we won’t get the $4 million back but we’ll get the 20.5.
Okay.
All right.
And then if I may on recruiting in general and then on Liberty National Life recruiting in general obviously first year up.
Any sense that the economy is helping with that? I think the real change is our internal recruiting incentives and the implementation of our improved training systems at both Liberty and American Income.
Okay.
And then Larry can you touch on -- it's interesting the agent count has been growing.
The new recruits have been growing at Liberty National but the renewals have not and actually have continued to come down.
What's the reason for that and how do you fix that? You want to fix it?  I don’t think it’s fixed so much it’s intentional that will change your compensation systems.
Realize we’re going to lose some veteran agents as to move from away from service ally but we think it will stabilize and they are just greater just on new recruits.
So over time all the changes we have implemented that Liberty National last few years things are settling down the culture is been accepted.
And I think we’ll see the same percentage of better agents that we keep on Liberty we see at American Income.
So this decline is still left over from the competition changes? Yes.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered but on Family Heritage did you give any guidance for agent recruiting -- or agent counts for the full year? I don't think I heard them and if you did say them I missed them.
No one has asked that question for any of the agencies.
Looking at 2014 we expect the agent count of Family Heritage be between 775 agents and 800 agents.
At American Income at the end of 2014 we expect the agent count to be between 6 000 agents and 6 100 agents.
And Liberty National that increase between 1 550 agents to 1 600 agents.
Thanks very much.
To a certain extent my question has been asked but I'm hoping you can build on the answer to Steven Schwartz's question regarding Liberty.
Where are you in the process of restructuring that Company to make it more like American Income? And do feel that you're getting the intended result? Are you are pleased with this effort to remake that Company? I think the restructuring is completed at American Income and Liberty National.
Over time we will change compensation and recruiting systems to expect the same and make the necessary changes as those agent counts grow.
We’re seeing some new offices that are productive at Liberty National.
We opened two new offices in second quarter.
We’re planning to continue offices to the end of the year.
If we look at the offices we opened last year we’re pleased they’re producing the expected levels that we hope to see.
So I think at Liberty you’ll see continued slow and steady growth but it takes time to develop that middle management that you can promote into the agency ownership position at Liberty National Eric.
Eric also looking at -- we knew going into this process will take time and we’re starting to see positive even more positive impact from before and we’re pleased with the progress there.
Good morning everyone.
Eric was on the same wavelength as I am.
It seems like you've bumped up your sales outlook from low- to mid-singles across the board to approaching double-digit in all three segments.
And I think this is after a few years of sales coming in disappointing.
And clearly there's been a positive surprise to the sales momentum across the board and the pivots around agent count at both Liberty and American Income.
So I'm a little surprised you don't have a little more bounce to your steps Gary and Larry in your pitch.
You read it with the same level of intensity as you normally do.
Am I right that you're pumped up about what's going on? And a little color on why direct is doing a little bit better than you thought going into the year?  I mean it is excited you use your term we are pumped up and we are very pleased looking better recruiting pushing better income intention while there are still factors as reducing more agent activity have made us and we are better finishers in place and expand your sales you have to have that higher level of agent activity.
I think the sales growth that at direct response could explain by it will increase from electronic that in place about 20% for the full year.
We’re seeing strong increases in our electronic media both the Internet and inbound phone calls are up quarter-to-quarter and we’re pleased with result set direct response.
And we’ll go next to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
On investment income you mentioned you are expecting excess investment income to increase 3% to 5% I think it is in 2014.
What's your expectation or your view on how much you can grow investment income next year if we actually stay at this type of environment in terms of rates and your new money yield does not move up as you are expecting it to? And then how much do you think the portfolio yield will dropped next year if we are in this type of rate environment? So not necessarily looking for guidance but just can you grow investment income at mid- to single-digit rate if you actually see these types of rates? Or would investment income growth slow down dramatically next year?  Jimmy the current rate environment we feel like we can grow investment income next year to 3% to 4% range it is more as a portfolio yield as you know with the cost we have as couple of years security results and dramatic deep climb in the portfolio yield.
Now what we’re looking at over the next five years that the portfolio yield assuming current new money rates as money rate 5% we talked about earlier that the portfolio yield was stabilize it may drop 2 to 3 basis points in a year.
And because the portfolio yields will be fairly stable and we’ll be seeing a growth in investment income that’s in line with the growth in interest that we can grow investment income for next year in the four the range and take those investment activity because our interest expense is going be flat in those years we think kind of maybe 3.5 at the midpoint for next period we’re thinking it will be about 4% going forward.
And then on the share buybacks obviously over the past year and a half the stock has done really well and the buybacks have become less accretive over time.
Have you thought about the balance between buybacks and dividends? Have you looked at deploying capital at all like shifting that balance in one direction or another?  Yes we have and that something that we discuss over quarter with our board and in the last three years we’ve increased our dividend rates but to increase in further we still think buying back stock we still think is good buy at this point.
If things remain as they are by now I think you will see as continue to increase our dividend rate but still the bulk of nine will be going to share repurchase program.
And we’ll take the next question from Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
I'm just wondering I have a couple of follow-up questions if we could focus on the Life side.
First with respect to direct and sales just to follow-up on your other comments do you think the pace we've seen for the first half here is going to be sustainable over the second? Second question if we take a look at the enforced role-forwards were there some reserve adjustments made at either American Income or direct response? I'm looking at the levels for the death and others seem to move around a little bit more than I would have expected.
And then finally could you provide a bit of color on how you've been able to achieve what's been really quite a steady reduction in your first-year lapse rates improving those at both American Income and Liberty.
When I look back to where they were a couple years ago obviously it's been dramatic.
Has that gone about as far as it's going to go and how much is that impacting your profitability?  We think we are going to have mid to high level sales growth in direct response in the third and fourth quarters as you recall our standard [indiscernible] insurance products were rolled out fully in three quarter 2013 Colin those accounted for a good portion or sales growth in the first and second quarter we don’t think we’ll see the same increases on quarter-over-quarter things as going forward probably we will have steady sales growth.
Colin the improvement in the last (ph) rates I think we began in 2010 but really geared up in 2011.
To give you example the impact of this year we expect to conserve about $40 million of last premium.
And other words about 16 little over 16% of the last we will reinstate.
The impact to that is that impact of those policies closed what we’ve done in past years.
We increased our premium income about little over $40 million; it will add $6 million to our underwriting income.
That deposit program like I said we’ll say about 16% premium we think that percentage can go higher as we continue to find new ways to conserve the policies that but really have to attribute the improvements to conservation program.
Now in terms of if I think of American Income or Liberty National looking at the current levels the bulk continued to improve this year.
Are we getting towards where 8% is going to be the run rate for American Income and maybe a little over 7% for Liberty National? Or have you still got room to go?  That’s a good question; we’re getting to the point where we may not see much encouragement.
Just about the 8% American Income just 2011 was 9 a quarter and we’ve seen an improvement in Liberty National.
But you get the point where that last rate is not going to improve that much more.
This is Rob Myers on for Mark Hughes.
I had a question if you had any perception about the demand difference between whole life and term currently? If there's any industry-wide dynamic that you are gathering from the market? I don’t think we have a market internally.
We don’t see a shift from term to whole your basic retention products in those cases.
And so we’re doing niche rate analysis in all of our agency sales drives on a niche basis not whole versus a term product.
Agee</strong>  I get that a lot.
Good morning everybody.
So you've got this high-quality problem that continues that your stock's valuation is roughly 2 times book.
And I'm curious it looks to me if I look at stock price daily during the quarter it looks to me like you're -- and compare that to your average repurchase price it looks like you were pretty strong on your buybacks in the first half the quarter but tailed it off pretty significantly when the stock was in the $54 to $55 range or roughly 2 times your 2Q book XA-OSCI.
Should we take anything away from that or was it just a matter of the timing of your cash flow the timing of putting the capital to work? Frank you want to handle that?  One thing I would probably note John is that we did have a significant portion of our purchases in the very first quarter when we had $210 million and an overall price there about $50.72.
We did invest as we just looking at overall the timing will be a combination of both in that.
And we did have as we normally would more purchases in the first part of the second quarter.
As the price moved up probably is still down a little bit but we also clean off as we normally do we’re looking at spreading our purchases out over the course of the year and we’re looking for about $190 million target for the first half of the year.
And so that’s what we really kind are trying to push towards.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those are our comments and we’ll talk to you again next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Please standby.
Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mike Majors VP Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining the call today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2013 10-K and any subsequent Form 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the third quarter was $131 million or $0.99 per share a per share increase of 4% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $132 million or $1 per share a 5% increase on a per share basis.
On our second quarter conference call the midpoint of the guidance provided for the full year 2014 anticipated net operating income of $1.01 per share in the third quarter.
The actual net operating income was $0.02 lower due to higher than expected Part D drug costs.
With fixed maturities at amortized cost our return on equity as of September 30 was 15.1% and our book value per share was $27.57 a 10% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share increased 27% to $34.55.
In our Life Insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $492 million and life underwriting margins were $139 million approximately the same as a year ago.
Net life sales increased 14% to $91 million.
On the health side premium revenue excluding Part D grew 1% to $210 million and health underwriting margin grew 5% to $49 million.
Health sales increased from $23 million to $48 million.
Administrative expenses were $45 million for the quarter 1% more than a year ago.
For the full year 2014 we anticipate that administrative expenses will be up around 1% and be approximately 5.7% of premium.
I have one more item to discuss before turning the call over to Larry.
Recently there were reports that Torchmark had suffered a data breach.
There was an isolated internal breach in which we believe that someone at one of American Income's agency offices in the northwest used compromised login credentials to obtain personal information from approximately 400 insurance applications.
We have notified the individuals affected and continue to follow the investigation.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations.
Thank you Gary.
First let's discuss American Income.
At American Income life premiums were up 7% to $194 million and life underwriting margin was up 3% to $60 million.
Net life sales were $43 million up 18% due primarily to increased agent counts.
The producing agent count at the end of the third quarter were 6 155 up 13% from a year ago.
The average count in the third quarter was 6 106 up 6% from the second quarter.
</strong>life premiums were up 6% to $174 million and life underwriting margin declined 2% to $41 million.
Net life sales were up 7% to $35 million.
We expect 8% to 9% life sales growth for the full year 2014 and 5% to 9% for 2015.
At Liberty National life premiums declined 2% to $68 million while life underwriting margin declined 7% to $18 million.
Net life sales grew 18% to $9 million and net health sales increased 22% to $4 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 604 up 22% from a year ago.
The average agent count for the third quarter was 1 554 up 4% from the second quarter.
Life net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 9% to 11% for the full year 2014 and 5% to 9% for 2015.
Health net sales growth is expected to be within our range of 17% to 19% for the full year 2014 and 5% to 9% for 2015.
Now Family Heritage; health premiums increased 7% to $52 million.
Our health underwriting margin increased 40% to $11 million.
Health net sales were up 18% to $12 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 761 up 6% over a year ago.
The average agent count for the third quarter was 763 up 1% from the second quarter.
We expect sales growth for the full year 2014 to be in the range from 7% to 9% and 4% to 10% for 2015.
The United American General Agency health premiums increased 2% to $71 million; net health sales grew from 6 million to $10 million.
We expect General Agency net sales growth for the full year 2014 to be in a range of approximately 30% to 40%.
Our group health sales are hard to predict.
We'd expect relatively flat sales in 2015 due to those two large group cases required in 2014.
Now direct response heath; Medicare supplement sales were $19 million compared to $1 million in the year ago quarter.
This is due to a new large group case.
Most of our Medicare supplement business is distributed to our United American General industries agency’s channel.
This case is classified as direct response because we mail coverage offers directly to the retailers as coverage is available on a voluntary basis.
We expect sales in a range of $22 million to $23 million in 2014 and $5 million to $7 million in 2015.
Premium revenue from Medicare Part D grew 17% to $90 million while the underwriting margin declined from $9 million to $5 million.
The decline in underwriting margin was due to the higher than anticipated Part D drug costs we mentioned earlier.
We expect Part D premiums of $345 million to $350 million in 2014 and $190 million to $235 million in 2015.
Despite a significant decline in premiums expected for 2015 dollar margins are specifically relatively flat due to reduced exposure to auto-enrollment claims.
Frank will discuss this further in his comments.
I will now turn the call back to Gary.
I'll spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income; excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $55 million an increase of $1.7 million or 3% over the third quarter of 2013.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income increased 8%.
For the full year we expect excess investment income to increase by about 3% and on a per share basis the increase should be about 8% % compared to 2013.
These growth percentages are negatively impacted by Part D.
We estimate that the delay in receiving reimbursement from CMS for the higher than expected Part D claims will result in $4 million of lost investment income for the full year.
Excluding this reduction the increase in 2004 excess investment income will be about 5% or 10% of our share basis.
Now regarding the investment portfolio; invested assets were $13.3 billion including $12.7 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Out of the fixed maturities $12.2 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A minus and below investment grade bonds are $570 million compared to $586 million in a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.5% compared to 4.8% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.5 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 16%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A minus same as the year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1.4 billion approximately the same as at the end of the second quarter.
Now regarding investment yield in the third quarter we invested $174 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and financial sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 4.24% and average rating of A minus at an average life of 18 years.
The average yield and the average life are lower than in previous quarters due to over half of third quarter investments being made in private placements.
Excluding private new investments in the third quarter had an average yield of 4.86% and an average life of 29 years.
Through today the fourth quarter new money rate has been about 4.75% which is the rate we've assumed for fourth quarter at the midpoint of the 2014 guidance.
For the entire portfolio the third quarter yield was 5.89% down two basis points from the 5.91% yield in the third quarter of 2013.
At September 30th the portfolio yield was approximately 5.90%.
We're concerned about the decline in new money rates this year.
In the past analysts calls we've discussed in details the impact of a lower (indiscernible) interest rate environment.
As a reminder an extended low interest rate environment impacts our income statement but not the balance sheet.
If we primarily say our non-interest protection products account fall under Cloud 60 (indiscernible) or put up additional GAAP reserves due to interest rate fluctuations.
In addition we do not perceive a negative impact on our [same store] (ph) balance sheet.
While we'd benefit from high interest rates Torchmark will continue to earn a substantial excess investment income in an extended low interest rate environment.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I'd like to first take a few minutes to discuss the reduction in 2014 earnings guidance.
The midpoint of our guidance fell $0.08 from $4.10 to $4.02; $0.05 of this reduction is due to additional adverse Part D experience.
The remaining $0.03 includes the effect of both higher Part D claims and a lower new money rates on excess investment income and slightly lower underwriting income from our non-Part D operations.
With respect to Part D we have added new schedule on our Web site entitled "Medicare Part D margins " which provides information regarding Part D premiums and margins.
As can be seen on the schedule the Part D margin as a percentage of premium is expected to decline from 11.8% in 2013 to 7% to 8% in 2014.
This reduction results from higher claims driven primarily by two issues.
One: Claims that are related to the new Hepatitis C drugs that are trending at the high end of the range we discussed on our second quarter call and through a CMS administrative rule change implemented in the third quarter retroactive to the beginning of the year that effectively shifts responsibility for a portion of Part D claims expenditures on group business from CMS to insurance carriers.
For 2015 we expect significantly less volatility in Part D.
One: We have adjusted our 2015 pricing to reflect the impact of the Hepatitis C drugs and the administrative rule change.
And two: We expect to have about 87% fewer auto-assigned insurance in 2015 than we have in 2014.
Since auto-assigns have accounted for nearly 85% of our Hepatitis C claims this year our exposure to Hepatitis C claims should be much lower next year.
While the loss of auto-assigns will result in lower premium income in 2015 we expect underwriting margins to remain relatively flat in 2015 compared to 2014 because the percent of premium profit margin should return to pre-2014 level.
As we've discussed before the higher than expected Part D cost don't just impact our underwriting margins.
They also impact our net investment income.
The higher cost increase the amounts paid upfront on behalf of the government and we won't give reimbursed by CMS for their share of the cost until November of 2015.
The impact of the higher part declines in 2014 on our excess investment income has been included in our guidance for both 2014 and 2015.
Next I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
In the third quarter we spent $97.6 million to buy 1.8 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $53.72.
For the full year through today we have spent $317.3 million of parent company cash to acquire six million shares at an average price of $52.30; apparent start of the year with liquid assets of $60 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow in 2014.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividend received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
We expect free cash flow in 2014 to be around $375 million.
Thus including the $60 million available from assets on hand as of the beginning of the year we currently expect to have around $435 million of cash in liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
As previously noted to-date in 2014 we have used $317 million to purchase Torchmark shares leaving around $118 million of cash available for the remainder of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible; add some better alternatives and if market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be the primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of liquid assets as a parent company.
For 2015 we preliminarily estimate that our free cash flow available to the parent will be in the range of $360 million to $370 million.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries; as stated on previous calls we have maintained our insurance company capital levels at or above an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis which has historically been sufficient to maintain our ratings.
This RBC ratio is lower than some peer companies but has been sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings and the relatively lower risks of our assets and policy liability.
We currently expect to exceed our targeted RBC levels for 2014.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2014 we expect our net operating income to be within the range of $4 per share to $4.04 per share.
For 2015 we expect our net operating income per share to be in the range of $4.15 to $4.55 resulting in a midpoint of $4.35 an 8% increase over the midpoint of our current 2014 guidance.
Those are our comments.
We will now open the call up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll first go to Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
I have a couple of questions.
You discussed the Part D claims issue but I'm wondering if you could talk about the higher life claims as well.
It seems like life insurance claims are higher than they had been in a while.
And then secondly on buybacks given what S&amp;P published a couple of months ago had there been any change in your long-term strategy on share buybacks and how you think about capital left that’s not been to the holdco level? Okay.
Jimmy first we'll talk about the life claims.
Life claims were up primarily in direct response although they were up slightly in the Liberty National American Income.
Direct response declines were trending slightly higher than we expected at this point during the year and I think we're expecting to be -- the policy obligation percentage to be half a point or a point higher than what we had in all of 2013.
We don't think there is a significant trend there but that's something we will monitor.
Our American our Liberty National part of the increase there was that we have a (inaudible)in the third quarter of '13 but we expect the full year policy obligations to be at or around maybe slightly higher than what we had for 2013 but again we see this is more of a fluctuation than a trend.
In American Income our policy obligation percentage there has been within 1% range for several years.
We think that the third quarter being a little bit higher is again a fluctuation and not a trend.
But for the full year which is what we were last year and what we anticipate going forward.
Okay.
And then on buybacks? Yes.
Then Jimmy on the buybacks and the S&amp;P issue we do not see at this point in time any change in the long-term strategy on the buyback.
We're still evaluating our various options to address the shortfall that S&amp;P has and -- I just want to point out that's just a change in view with respect to capitalization that we've had in place at the holding company and our insurance companies required some time.
So there's really been no significant changes there but we do think that there are other alternatives out there for us to use other than changing any philosophy on the buyback.
And then just lastly you mentioned like low rates being a headwind for earnings not for the balance sheet.
But if we are in this type of environment can you discuss what you're -- are you doing anything on the pricing side to offset part of the impact or are you just like accepting low returns as long as rates are low? Jimmy we're not anticipating increase in pricing at this point.
But I think if you remember I think it was a year or two ago we increased rates of both American Income and direct response.
And we at that time we increased the rates more than we probably needed to.
And so I think if we stay in this whole way down where we are I think (indiscernible) back then.
I think we're okay at this point.
Once thing I'd add to that Gary.
At that point when we put enough pricing increase we really anticipated at the time that the rates would stay low at least in the 2015.
So at this point in time it's not a real surprise.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Eric Bass from Citigroup.
Hi thank you.
I just want to start on the Part D business; since you said your thoughts on long-term view on the Part D market this has been the most volatile piece of your business in recent years.
It seems like it's getting harder to predict from year-to-year.
So does this change at all how you're thinking about pricing and whether you want to attract auto enrollees going forward? Yes exactly.
We don't like volatility and most of the higher claim costs and the volatility we've had has been in the auto-assigns.
We're going to have a significant reduction in auto enrollees next year.
I think we're going to be very careful in our products in the (indiscernible) law.
Got it.
So if we think about the premium growth kind of beyond 2015 we should not assume a significant increase because you attract more auto enrollees in the future.
Is that a reasonable way to think about it? Yes.
You won't see the big increases that we had because that has come as we said the auto enrollees will still stay with our individual group business and we expect just moderate growth there.
Okay.
And then maybe we can just switch quickly to free cash flow I think your guidance for next year is implying free cash flow that's a little bit down from what it was this year.
Imagine some of that may be that drag from the higher Part D claims and low investment income but if you could just talk about any other moving pieces there? Eric.
That's exactly right.
Our preliminary estimates and I will stress that it's pretty preliminary at this point because we have not even completed our third quarter statutory filings and statutory income projections.
But our initial look for statutory earnings in 2014 would indicate that they are -- actually will come in just a little bit lower than we had in 2013.
Therefore the dividends up from the insurance companies in 2015 is expected to be just a little bit less and that's what's really driving the slight decrease in the free cash flow.
And it really is primarily the drag from the Part D operations that we're seeing in 2014 on both investment income as well as underwriting.
Then you'll notice in general we from -- funding several initiatives with respect to our sales growth and keep in mind that all those funding those initiatives are fully expensed on a statutory basis so those do tend to have a little drag on the earnings as well.
Got it.
Thank you.
And just last very quickly can you [found out that] (ph) what could you assume for life underwriting margins in your '15 guidance? The midpoint to our guidance the underwriting margins are around 20% 28% and 29% which is -- we're going to end 2014 probably at 28.5 and so it's -- we're not expecting it to change from the fiscal … Great thank you very much.
And we'll now move to Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
Hi great thanks.
I have a couple.
One is just a follow-up on what Eric was asking there and is that -- and this goes back to Frank a commentary on the opening part of the call but when you say that underwriting margins in Part D are going to recover to more normal levels I think that would be low-teens underwriting margin.
I just want to clarify that and are you assuming that auto enrollee claims also improve next year or that there just simply won't be as many when you talk about the overall underwriting margin for Part D improving next year? Yes it's really is a little bit of a combination.
Both the underwriting margin that we're seeing overall we do expect to be in that 10% to 13% range.
So we do see that clearly which is about where we've been pricing and where we've estimated on normal course in the past few years.
And then you truly just have less exposure to the autos.
Several of the region the autos have very low underwriting margins as we've lost those regions then we're starting to see that the overall margins on the auto -- what is left on the auto-assign business should come up as well.
Okay.
You don't think that there would be a region increase I guess that the other regions would have the same problem as the other the reason I think that would be different experience? We just have.
I mean we're basically going from 22 regions in 2014 to where we're going to have four regions in 2015.
So we just have fewer numbers.
Basically our enrollment and it's an 87% decline of what we're anticipating as a decrease in the overall enrollment in the auto-assigns.
All right so that's helpful.
It's more dramatic on the drop and the autos; got it.
And then I guess I'm going to ask about the brief just because it feels like the stock is maybe off a little bit more than what happened fundamentally.
It sounds like your explanation here is that it sounds quite limited with 400 applications being affected and those folks being notified.
I guess the idea the two questions I have is is there a financial exposure here that's notable and is this the same issue has being outlined in (indiscernible) article online? Is it the same thing as that? Hi this is Larry.
We don't think there's any financial exposure here.
I think a breach is really the wrong term to use here.
It is not a third-party -- it can be information taken from someone within the organization.
Actually this information is very small.
And we contacted the 400 people involved so we don't expect any further activity around those item.
Okay.
And could you -- is it the same issue that's being covered in the online media on that? Yes it is.
All right very good.
Thank you.
And we'll now go to Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody.
Going back to the Part D segment or operations; is there -- would you be able to quantify the earnings headwinds end of 2015 from the cash flow issue there? Yes.
We basically have about a $115 million that we are going to be receiving if you will from CMS in late 2015.
So we estimate the last investment earning should be close to $6 million the headwinds for 2015.
Okay.
I guess if I take that out of the midpoint of that of the 2015 guidance range and I compare that to the original guidance range for 2013 I get the EPS growth of roughly 6% 7% year-over-year.
And I guess it just seems a little below maybe (indiscernible) see from Torchmark.
I was curious what else was going on there … Yes which also need to take into account when you're looking at that is the drag on '14 from the Part D operation.
So our underwriting income the midpoint of our guidance at the beginning of the year we were anticipating around $36 million.
We're looking at coming in around somewhere in the range of $26 million $25 million to $27 million in 2014.
And we expect that to be relatively flat going into 2015.
So that's creating from your starting point that's creating an additional drag plus.
So as we looked at it if you do include the $6 million at the midpoint of the 2015 guidance and compare it to the midpoint of our final guidance here for 2014 you'll end up somewhere real north of 9%.
Okay.
And then maybe switching gears a little bit to agent count it seems like both in Liberty National and American Income they're a little bit ahead of the schedule.
Do you anticipate that the growth will slow down a little bit in the coming quarters or to continue seeing that this healthy clip? Yaron Kinar we're not expecting a significant drop in the agent count.
However historically we've seen increase in agent terminations in fourth quarter Liberty National the same phenomena I think for both distribution we issued the guidance for 2015 in terms of the agent counts or be in a better position (indiscernible) we will be able to see what terminations occurred in the fourth quarter on both distributions also (indiscernible) in the month of January 2015.
Okay.
I appreciate the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hey good morning everybody.
First just on the excess investment income 2015 what are you assuming? Are you assuming I guess first question that's the new money rate will continue at a 475 level? Steven we're assuming that we'll be investing a little over 5% at the midpoint.
Okay.
And they started out a little bit lower than that at the beginning (indiscernible) as the year goes on.
Okay (indiscernible) from your mouth.
So given that how should we think about the rate on the portfolio coming down over the year? I think that right in the portfolio it will come down around three to four basis points.
For the year or per quarter? For the year.
For the year okay.
And then I want to go back to Part D so my understanding is that you price for the non-auto enrollees depending upon your pricing then you get assigned auto enrollees.
Is that correct? We would actually -- within a particular region we'd end up putting in a bid.
That would anticipate whether or not we'd get auto enrollees for that particular region.
</strong>I guess what I'm imagining here and maybe I'm wrong but what I'm imagining here is that if you price not to get auto enrollees doesn't that mean that your rate on non-auto enrollees I mean is it going to be very very profitable maybe more so that had been in the past.
Is that what you think the reason why it's not to get and so the remainder I would think the margin would be very high.
While you're ultimately pricing overall with respect to what are you getting auto enrollees and not you're still not the experience overall between the non-auto enrollees we aren't -- I guess I'll just say that the experience that we're seeing is not necessarily resulting in excessively high margins on the non-auto enrollees.
Okay all right.
And then the S&amp;P issue with regards to the financing is that correct that it has to do with preferred share financing it has to do with the internal financing of reserves? Well internal financing of the overall capital and back in 1998 we had -- at the time that we spent our Waddell &amp; Reed we actually had put some preferred stock into the capital structure of the insurance companies.
And in exchange absolute debt at that point in time but it's really done in connection with that that's been on Waddell &amp; Reed back at that point in time.
And they've been in place ever since.
Okay.
So this doesn't have to do with capital finance or anything like that? Correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's (indiscernible).
And we'll now go to Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you.
If I could just ask a follow-up question on the timing of the CMS reimbursement question If we look out into 2016 does that $6 million of lost income does that just subside or does that actually reverse? Well I think it should subside one just having better than reversing.
We're expecting to receive that around a $115 million in the fourth quarter typically it ends up being in November.
That can change just a little bit.
And for then it will be there in these final invested assets as of the end of 2015 which will impact the 2016 earnings.
And I suppose with mix shift of auto enrollees and rough spend (indiscernible) I guess what I was trying to get out with this question if there is any maybe excess cash flow that comes in in '15 in terms of reimbursements that would cause maybe 16 to be a little bit not normal in terms of investment growth there? Yes.
What we're anticipating with respect to the 2015 plan so we always estimate we do attempt to estimate what the settlement with CMS is going to be every year.
Right now our estimate for 2015 is that we'll actually be growing that receivable if you will buy about another $30 million.
And so over the course of 2015 which is also build into our guidance that we'll be funding about $30 million worth of claims on behalf of CMS over the course of the year and then in 2016 we'll be -- at the end of '15 then we would have a net receivable from them at about $30 million that will be impacting 2016 earnings.
Yes.
And then if I could ask just one other question on sales growth guidance and if I look across different life channels mid single-digits as opposed to upper single-digits last year in 2014 maybe just some commentaries on setting those what's causing the decline there if maybe '15 that's the more normalized growth number in '14 coming out of an easy comp or what lead to that maybe conservative growth guidance? That should be on the agency its agent growth that drives the growth in sales.
I was seeing a pattern historically in each of the companies that we have stair step growth in the agency.
Something 20% agency growth in American Income and you have similar growth for Liberty National this year you wouldn't expect to have 20% growth next year; must get the sales guidance at 6% to 10% of American Income in model within that different levels of agency growth different levels of percentage (indiscernible) that range because as the year moves on and if we have short agency growth this calls for the 10% growth.
If the agency grows slowly it's going to be close to the 6%.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Colin Devine from Jefferies.
Good morning.
And looking at the life I guess the underwriting ratio or the benefit ratio the one that stuck out for me was direct response.
And you really haven't talked about that.
And yet it seemed to be the highest in the last nine to 10 years and probably two standard deviations above the average over that period.
Was something particular that happened there? Colin I mentioned email that we've had higher climbs in the third quarter than expected.
And as a result of that we may be more -- 47% to 47.5% is a percentage of all sale negations whereas last year it was 46.4%.
I think it's been around that for several quarters.
It's going forward.
There will be a net 46% and 47% range.
We still like -- so again I think it's more a fluctuation and then we've been turning to that 46 47 number for several quarters now.
That's why I wanted with the number 48 that just seemed … What I think is seeing there a little bit is the catch-up effect of the first couple of quarters where in that 46 range but we're seeing over the course of the year that we're now saying it should be on that 47 a year said you know 47 or 47.5 to seem a little bit of a catch-up there in the third quarter.
Okay.
And then with respect to the agent recruiting this quarter which I thought was quite strong.
Can you talk a little bit more about what was behind that and obviously what you're doing to quote and place to really hold on to our agent just to go forward.
Have you changed anything there? We mentioned in the prior calls that we changed our (indiscernible) recruiting.
This year versus last year we actually had a quarter-over-quarter increase on recruiting.
But also this strong growth on our middle management count this year.
The middle management didn't help support the agent growth.
In addition we're seeing a slight increase recent retention which is another (indiscernible).
I was looking at that.
That's what and why I was a little surprised when you took the sales guidance down given what this when you've done recruiting.
So something there that's just are you just being cautious? Being conscience based on the history of each of the agency forces.
When I think about agency it doesn't grow on a one-year fashion.
It really there's step growth.
And you have certain agents you would expect to see some increase in terminations in the following several quarters.
(Indiscernible) see what's driving that agent force and life changes continuing that level of growth.
You would like to think we're going to have back to back 10% or 15% increases in agent channel.
I think that's not realistic on a historical basis it just stretch a little over agent growth in 2015 and in 2014.
Thank you.
Then the final one you haven't talked in many quarters about what's been going on in sort of first command and such.
Can you give us any update on that it's just so a meaningful part of the overall premiums? We're seeing some positive results.
First command we seen is increase in the sales at first command.
I think the important part of our business is not core.
We really focus our growth in direct response American Income and Liberty National with respect to the life operations.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Good morning everybody.
Good morning Mr.
Nadel.
Agee</strong> Yes.
It will happen.
The question I really want to talk about was just -- I really want to understand some of the thoughts and maybe some of the risks that you might be seeing around the lower end of 2015 guidance.
I mean if I -- first of all I guess it's a wider range of guidance and I think we've historically seeing from you guys but the lower end of the guidance implies I believe 3% year-over-year EPS growth from your midpoint of '14.
And if I assume your buybacks at or around the current pace that actually suggests to me that at the lower end of your EPS range it might actually contemplate actual earnings being down on a year-over-year basis.
I guess I'm just trying to understand where is the cost in there? (Indiscernible).
Agee</strong> Yes.
Let's say as we look at the ranges I think it's taking in to account very early in the process and we haven't finalized the statutory income.
So that clearly one piece is statutory earnings would have a come in a little bit differently.
And we have less cash flow free cash flow available for the buybacks.
And then of course volatility in the marketplace and so we do tend to as we're looking at our ranges at this beginning.
At this point in time we're kind of trying to take a look at where some of the -- it's all lot of really bad things happen or if a lot of really good things happen those kind of set the outside boundary.
We don't spend an awful lot of time now we're more focused on clearly around that the midpoint of that that we're recognizing that there is some extreme events that could impact on either side.
And if we have that unfortunate confluence of example we've really bad client experience on the life side and we don't get that off set with some positive on the health side.
We are really bad on the health as well.
Part D ends up being -- it's a low end of their margin.
And if rates stay really low and those type of things so we're just kind of trying to -- that's I think there is no specific changes if you will that we're anticipating that would kid of pop into there? Okay.
So if I could -- and I don't want to necessarily put words in your mouth but if I were going to paraphrase I'd say the lower end of the guidance is essentially just to -- the opportunity that if a bunch of things just go against you in 2015 weaker underwriting margins generally and maybe slightly lower buyback there you go.
Agee</strong> That's right.
Okay.
It seems and I guess that makes sense because if I look at the top line trends particularly here in the first nine months of 2014.
Top line growth has accelerated a little bit your sales growth has been certainly very strong stronger I think than even you guys had expected it might be and that is a backdrop recognizing long-term investment rates are challenging but with top line growth starting to pick up a bit it seems difficult to assume that earnings not EPS but earnings could be down on year-over-year basis.
Unless I guess you get some underwriting issues like claims so that's the way you're thinking about it? Yes.
It has to take some unusual events.
Agee</strong> Okay.
I'll jump -- first of all it's really earlier to be projecting 2015 we'll tie to that when we get to the fourth quarter call but I think we build -- the midpoint is really where we're thinking we're going to be.
At that midpoint the 4.35 if we weren't losing the $6 million investment income because of this Part D thing that has another $0.03 that gives us $4.38.
That will be over 9% increase.
We feel like it's going to be more around that midpoint and neither the higher or lower.
Agee</strong> Got it okay.
That's a very helpful color.
That's really important thank you.
And we'll now move to Mark Hughes from SunTrust.
And we'll actually go to Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Hi good morning.
I just have a couple more questions on '15 guidance; can you just give us what your administrative expense great expectation is next year? And then also I don't think you've said this yet what percentage growth you expect in excess investment income in '15? Okay.
The administrative expenses we're thinking to grow 3% to 5% next year.
And investment income we think the growth rate there will be at the midpoint.
I think we have assumed 2.5% -- that's lower than what we have in 2014.
But like I mentioned to John a while ago with the add back we're losing on Part D the increase in investment income would be over 3% and that's what we'd expect.
Got it.
And then your admin expense growth have been in I think growing in the 1% to 2% range probably for a little while why are you expecting that to increase more going forward? Ryan in 2014 it grew about 1% and that's largely because of our pension expense.
It was very high in 2013 and it dropped in 2014 with the change in the discount rate.
Without a change in the discount rate it would have grown more than that in that 3% range without the decrease of a pension expense in 2014.
So looking forward 2014 2015 you don't have that offsetting impact on it and it will be growing just in a more normal 3% 4% 5% level.
Got it thanks.
And then last one just on the S&amp;P issue is there any real reason for you to react to this because I think S&amp;P's rating is already one above the other rating agencies.
So I guess the question is would you just tick to downgrade or do you actually feel you need to react? Well it's clearly one of the factors that we're already evaluating as we look at our options.
And we do recognize that the S&amp;P rating does not have a particular substantial impact or really any impact on our marketing efforts and we do recognize that many of our peer companies and most of our peer companies do have their S&amp;P rating the lower.
So it's something that we're taking to consideration and thinking about as we look at those options.
Ryan I'd say we'd like to maintain the ratings but time maybe a good part.
From a marketing standpoint the S&amp;P or Moody's ratings aren't that important.
In our business the rating is important (indiscernible) we have A plus that's far more important (indiscernible).
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
We'll now move to Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks very much.
So I've had a chance to look at the exhibits that you filed on your Web site entitled Medicare Part D margins S&amp;P contemplate a much smaller business but a more profitable business next year than this year.
Can you review with us -- you touched on it but could you go directly to the question how does the government sign into these auto enrollees and how can you be as confident as you're right now that the auto enrollees will be down so sharply next year from current levels? There is a -- when you submit a bid into a particular region for particular plans your filed plan and we know already for 2015 whether or not the bid that we put in is -- how that compares to a benchmark premium so essentially CMS takes all of the bids from all the different insurance companies that are covering low income subsidy individuals and comes up with what they call "a benchmark premiums." If your submitted premium is less than that benchmark premium then you're automatically given auto-assigns.
So when everybody -- all the insurance companies that have qualifying bids are then on a proportional basis assigned the auto-assigns and the enrolling individuals.
If your bid is above that benchmark premium by more than $2 then you're out and you're not going to be pulled back in.
So for the bids that we submitted for 2015 we've already been notified their bid was too high as compared to the benchmark premium.
And again you don't know what that benchmark premium is going to be at the time you submit your bids but at this time in time we know that we're out in albeit four regions versus the 22 that we're in in 2014.
So in short; just to go through this in a little bit more detail you know you have far fewer auto enrollees next year than this year.
You know the auto enrollees had been the preponderance of the higher than expected Hepatitis-related claims.
Yes.
That provides 85% of the Hepatitis C claims.
And so with fewer in short with 4Q or higher claimants on the roll next year than this year do you expect a smaller business but a more profitable business in percentage terms product margin percentage terms is that a match up? Correct and with less volatility because of our fewer auto-assigns.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) We'll now go to Mike (indiscernible).
Hi thanks.
This is Mike (indiscernible).
Liberty National life sales accelerated again this quarter to now very strong levels shall we expect total premium growth to move into positive territory sooner? I guess I'd have expected it to be closer breakeven by now so maybe I'm missing necessarily higher laps component or something.
I think if you think there is problem in sales growth going forward we expect to be in a positive premium loan some time in 2017.
Mike the one reason that's taken a while to (indiscernible) block and there is nothing unusual about the laps really it's just a big block and we've had ups and downs and multi downs in sales in the past few years.
Now we've had sales growth it's just going to take a couple of years that sales growth to get where we can at least breakeven on the premium.
Got it that's helpful.
Lastly we could take offline if I'm missing something but I think Larry during the prepared comments out to big jump in direct response of health sales.
Could you give us some more color on what took place and why you expect the sales that follow-up next year.
Maybe that's the whole auto enrollment things that you're talking about.
Thank you.
The direct response in the health job is the Medicare Supplement that we offer to the direct mail authors.
It's an existing channel of distribution.
We include those Medicare settlement sales in the direct response category.
And we had a very large group who was added in the third quarter.
And next year we're not expecting another large group and that's why the sales guidance for next year is in much smaller percentage than this year.
Got it.
And so the (indiscernible) is that helping out there or is there any correlation there? I'd tell you the overall results are better than what anticipated in the current season.
(Indiscernible) through brand awareness and that's resulted in the growth in inquiries and most were immediate channels.
We are also seeing growth there in net sales and the product marketing territories compared to the rest of the country.
So we're very pleased with the results after the first year.
Got it thank you.
And it appears there are no further questions.
I'll turn the conference back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
All right thank you for joining us this morning; those were our comments.
And we will talk to you again next quarter.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Torchmark Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining the call today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2013 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter was $131 million or $1 dollar per share a per share increase of 30% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $147 million or $1.13 per share a 9% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities and amortized cost our return on equity as of December 31 was 14.9% and our book value per share was $27.91 an 8% increase from year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities and market value book value per share increased 31% to $36.19.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 5% to $494 million while life underwriting margins were $136 million down 1% from a year ago.
On the health side premium revenue grew 5% to $225 million and health underwriting margin grew 3% to $51 million.
Health sales increased from $40 million to $72 million $25 million of the increase was due to group business and the remaining $7 million was related to individual business.
Administrative expenses were $45 million for the quarter down 2% from year ago.
For the full year administrative expenses were $180 million or 5.7% of premium.
In 2015 we expect administrative expenses to grow approximately 6% to 7% and be approximately 5.8% of premium.
The primary reasons for the increase in administrative expenses are higher pension costs resulting from the required implementation of a new mortality table and further investments in IT systems.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations.
Thank you Gary.
We are very pleased that we had strong sales growth in each of the distribution channels for both the quarter and the full year.
Now I would like to discuss results for each of those channels.
At American Income life premiums were up 8% to $196 million and life underwriting margin was up 6% to $62 million.
Net life sales were $46 million up 23% due primarily to increased agent counts.
The producing agent count at the end of the fourth quarter was 6 434 up 21% from a year ago.
The average agent count the fourth quarter was 6 323 up 4% from the third quarter.
We expect life sales growth in 2015 to be within a range of 6% to 10%.
At our Direct Response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 7% to $174 million.
But life underwriting margin declined 9% to $37 million.
Net life sales were up 10% to $38 million.
We expect 4% to 8% life sales growth for 2015.
At Liberty National life premiums were $67 million approximately the same as the year ago quarter.
Our life underwriting margin declined 16% to $16 million.
Net life sales grew 15% to $9 million while net health sales increased 19% to $5 million.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 498 up 5% from a year ago.
The average agent count the fourth quarter was 1 572 up 1% from the third quarter.
Life net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 6% to 10% for 2015.
Health net sales growth is expected to be within a range 4% to 8% for 2015.
At Family Heritage health premiums increased 7% to $53 million while health underwriting margin increased 12% to $11 million.
Health net sales were up 8% to $12 million.
The producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 785 up 13% over a year ago.
The average agent count for the fourth quarter was 782 up 2% from the third quarter.
We expect health sales growth to be in a range from 4% to 10% for 2015.
At United American General Agency count premiums increased 8% to $81 million.
Net health sales grew from $22 million to $51 million.
Of the $51 0230 million in 2014 sales individual sales were $12 million up 15% our group sales were $39 million compared to $14 million a year ago.
In 2015 we expect growth in individual sales to be around 14% to 16% while group health sales are hard to predict we expect them to decline in 2015 due to the unusual number of large group cases we acquired in 2014.
Premium revenue for Medicare Part D grew 22% to $90 million while the underwriting margin declined from $10 million to $5 million.
The decline in underwriting margin was due to the higher than unanticipated Part D drug costs discussed in our previous calls.
We expect Part D premiums of $315 million to $335 million in 2015 and expect margin as a percentage of premium to be approximately 6% to 8%.
Frank will discuss this further in his comments.
I will now turn the call back to Gary.
I will spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $56 million an increase of 2% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income increased 8%.
As we discussed previously excess investment income was negatively impacted by Part D to the extent of $2 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $5 million for the full year.
Excluding the negative impact of Part D excess investment income would have increased almost 5% for the year or about 10% on per share basis.
For 2015 we expect excess investment income to decrease by about 1% to 3%.
However on a per share basis we should see an increase of about 3% to 4%.
At the midpoint of our 2015 guidance we are expecting a further drag on excess investment income from Part D of approximately $6 million.
Regarding the investment portfolio invested assets were $13.3 billion including $12.8 billion of fixed maturities at amortized cost.
Out of the fixed maturities $12.3 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A- and below investment grade bonds are $561 million compared to $566 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.4% compared to 4.5% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.5 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 15%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A- same as the year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $1.7 billion approximately $250 million higher at the end of the third quarter.
To complete the investment portfolio discussion I would like to address our investments in the energy sector.
We believe the risk of realizing losses in the foreseeable future is minimal for the following reasons.
Over 99% of our energy holdings are investment grade.
And at the end of 2014 our energy portfolio had net unrealized gains of $152 million.
Also less than 10% of our energy holdings are in the oilfield service and drilling sector.
And we have reviewed our energy holdings and concluded that while we may see some downgrades we believe that the companies we have invested in can withstand low oil prices for an extended duration.
As to investment yield in the fourth quarter we invested $205 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial financial sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 4.8% and we are trading at BBB+ and an average life of 29 years.
For the entire portfolio the fourth quarter yield was 5.89% down 1 basis point from the 5.9% yield in the fourth quarter of 2013.
At December 31 2014 the portfolio yield was approximately 5.89%.
We are concerned about the decline in new money rates this year and as a result we lowered the new money rates from our previous guidance.
The midpoint of our current guidance for 2015 assumes new money yields of 4.5% for the first half of the year and 4.75% for the second half.
On past analyst calls we have discussed in detail the impact of a lower prolonger interest rate environment.
As a reminder an extended low interest rate environment impacts our income statement but not the balance sheet.
Since we primarily sell non-interest sensitive protection products accounted for in the past 60 we don’t see a reasonable scenario that would require us to write-off DAC or put up additional GAAP reserves due to interest rate fluctuations.
In addition we do not foresee a negative impact on our statutory balance sheet.
While we would benefit from higher interest rates Torchmark would continue to earn substantial excess investment income in an extended low interest rate environment.
Now I will turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
First regarding our share repurchases and parent company assets in the fourth quarter we spent $87 million to buy 1.7 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $52.76.
For the full year we spent $375 million of parent company cash to acquire 7.2 million shares at an average price of $52.42.
The parent ended the year with liquid assets of $57 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional cash flow in 2015.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividend received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
While our 2014 statutory earnings have not yet been finalized we expect free cash flow in 2015 to be in the range of $355 million to $365 million.
Thus including the $57 million available from assets on hand we currently expect to have around $417 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
To-date in 2015 we have used $34.3 million of this cash to buy 656 000 Torchmark shares.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of liquid assets at the parent company.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries we plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
Although we haven’t finalized our 2014 statutory financial statements we expect that the RBC percentage at December 31 2014 will be slightly above the 325% consolidated target.
We do not anticipate any changes to our targeted RBC levels in 2015.
Now I’d like to take a few minutes to discuss our Part D operations.
Our final underwriting results were largely in line with our expectations ending the year with $27 million underwriting margins or 7.8% of premiums.
As discussed on our last call this margin is less than originally anticipated primarily because of higher-than-expected hepatitis C claims during the year.
Included on our website is a schedule entitled Medicare Part D margins which provides information regarding Part D premiums and margins for 2013 2014 and estimated for 2015.
As the schedule shows we anticipate higher premiums and indicated on our last call.
This is due primarily to higher than anticipated enrollments in both our individual and group plan offerings during the enrollment period.
Premiums from auto enrollees will be approximately $25 million to $28 million the same as indicated in our last call.
Although we expect higher premiums we expect that our underwriting margins will be relatively flat to slightly lower than 2014 and then our margin as a percentage of premium will be lower than last indicated.
The revised outlook in the margin percentage is as a result of preliminary analysis of the risk scores and claims history of our actual 2015 enrollees.
The mix of enrollees for 2015 preliminarily indicates higher utilization of higher cost drugs which have lower margins.
As noted on our last call the higher-than-expected Part D cost in 2014 didn’t just impact underwriting income but also resulted in lower net investment income.
These higher costs resulted in higher amounts paid upfront on behalf of the government and won’t get reimbursed to us until November 2015.
For 2014 net investment income was negatively impacted by approximately $4.5 million.
In 2015 the midpoint of our guidance anticipates about $6 million of reduced investment income as a result of the delayed 2014 cash flows plus additional cash outflows expected to occur in 2015.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2015 we expect our net operating income to be within the range of $4.20 per share to $4.40 per share a 7% increase over 2014 at the midpoint.
The $0.05 reduction at the midpoint from our previous guidance was due primarily to the increase in pension expense reduction in expected Part D margins and a reduction in expected earnings from our Canadian operations due to the recent change in the Canadian exchange rate.
Those are our comments.
We will now open the call up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Hi thank you.
Just wanted to spend a little bit more time on Part D and I was hoping you could talk about what changed in Part D and why enrollments you think ended up being so much higher than your initial expectations? And then also as you touched on your margin guidance it’s obviously lower than previously and it seems to imply that you are expecting some adverse selection.
So maybe if you could comment a little bit more what is it about the enrollment base that suggests that would be the case? Yes Eric.
With respect to the enrollments at the time of the last call we are using our best estimates taking a look at kind of normal trends in the premium taking into account the premium rate increases that we had put into effect working with our consultant to look at a particular mix and trying to get an estimate of the total number of enrollees that we might have.
Keep in mind it was before obviously the open enrollment period that occurred in the fourth quarter.
So we did end up having a substantially higher amount of enrollments within our individuals by about two-thirds of the added enrollments in our individual plans and then we did have higher group sales in the fourth quarter as well.
And as I noted before the auto enrollees ended up being about the same as where the same as where we ended up – what we had indicated on our last call with total premiums around $25 million which is at 85% or so decrease from 2014 levels.
With respect to the margins the decrease is really just higher.
It is higher expected claims and fewer drug rebates than we had originally anticipated.
And it’s across all of our businesses both the individual and group but the last guidance was again given prior to the actual enrollment results and now with those – with the final enrollment results and being able to see who exactly is in the plan we are just better able to estimate the anticipated drug utilization and cost.
And it just does appear that the group that we have is a group that has higher utilization and actually it’s having a little higher utilization of higher cost drugs which then while they are included in our pricing really just have a lower margin and tend to have fewer rebates from the pharmaceutical companies.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
So it ended up essentially then that your pricing was a little bit more competitive than you had initially expected? Yes.
I think there is a lot of different factors that enter into why a particular individual chooses our plan versus another.
And the websites I think facilitate that comparison and really we are taking a look into what maybe some of those factors are but at this time we don’t have all those answers.
Got it.
Maybe just a follow-up bigger picture question on Part D I guess is do you think that this is a good business and something that you want to be in over time or does the challenge with accurately projecting enrollments and margins change your thinking at all on that? Well I think as we have talked about in previous calls I mean this has always been an opportunistic business for us.
And we have in looking back at the program over since 2006 when we first got into it it’s been a good program for us.
The margins clearly in 2014 and what we are looking for in 2015 are what we would prefer and we will continue to evaluate the program as we do every year and see what tweaks and changes we want to make with it.
Okay thank you for the comments.
We will take our next question from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Hey good morning.
Thanks.
I was interested actually in picking up on some of the yield comments and Gary if you covered this I apologize if I missed it.
But first of all where is the portfolio yield coming off now and where is new money coming on just currently not talking about the 2015 guidance because I have a question on that but where are you now on those two metrics? Okay.
Randy for the portfolio yield at the end of the year it’s 5.89%.
And during the year we invested money at 4.77% the higher at the full year and then we – I think we ended up at 4.8% for the quarter.
Okay.
So 4.8% for the quarter and then I guess your kind of spot you are saying it’s 4.5% I guess because if I got that right in your 2015 guidance you said you are assuming 4.5% growing to 4.75% basis points is that right? Right but we’re assuming 4.5% for half the year and 4.75% for the second half of the year.
So that 4.5% is coming in where is that is that still A- or you do have to go into the high BBBs to get that? It would be in the high BBBs which is we fluctuate between A- and BBB+.
To get to those rates it would BBBs and BBB+.
Okay.
And then on the energy disclosure I appreciate that but the one piece I didn’t get and then again I may have missed it the energy exposure you have currently in the below investment grade area is what number or percentage? Well out of the $1.5 billion of energy bonds only $16 million are below investment grade bond – below investment grade.
Okay so it’s de minimis? It’s de minimis and over – almost 9% of the bonds are pipelines and exploration production.
There is very little in the oil field service or drillers.
Okay oil service.
Okay.
I am just going to ask one more just in case no one hits on it but I have asked this question I think almost every conference call but I have been interested to see how well you all have done in improving your sales while some other direct and kind of let’s call it direct distributors of life health products I have struggled because of a better employment environment meaning the folks who take a direct sales job find something else to do in this kind of economy.
I would just be interested in your perspective on that of how you have gotten the agent counts up really across the board whether you talk about [indiscernible] American Income or Liberty despite the fact that these targeted individuals assuming they would have other job opportunities just kind of interested in your color on that dynamic? This is Larry in all three agencies particular recurring system have enabled us to continue to grow the agent count.
We are continually trying to improve those recruiting system and training systems.
Additionally in all three agencies we have implemented systems is to really focus on improving agent retention.
In answering your question I am less concerned about the general economy we are really focusing on performance in terms of recruiting and retraining agents.
And also Randy I would add is in recruiting we are not just recruiting agents to come in and sell insurance.
We are recruiting them with the opportunity that they can – as they grow they can some day head up an office its own their own business to a certain extent.
So I think that helps us.
I guess the quick follow-up is beyond I guess becoming a middle I think you all call middle managers is there a better – are using better technology the processes on the recruiting or what it was – is it specifically that’s improved there? It’s better technology but it’s also using different sources of recruiting.
Now internet recruiting has been a strong source for the last 10 years.
We have recruited and personally recruiting is another specialized recruiting.
I will say the other factor that’s driving agent growth and the companies are focused on middle management Randy is not just recruiting our agents it’s we promote middle-management and we see that middle-management number increase more people are coming through and trained in the field.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi.
First I had a question on margins in Liberty National and in the Direct Response businesses both businesses’ underwriting margins declined sequentially and I think they are the lowest that they have been in the last several years so maybe if you can discuss what happened there.
And then secondly on the producing agent count at Liberty National obviously it’s going over time but it did drop on a sequential basis and what caused the drop and what your expectations are for that channel? Okay.
Jimmy let’s talk about the margins first and let’s talk about Liberty National.
There are some at Liberty there are unfavorable comparisons not only a quarter but on the year basis.
For example in the quarter – fourth quarter we had high quarter in terms of claims this year last year it was a low quarter.
When you look at it for the year the policy obligation ratio which is the main impact on the margin here it was 39% in 2014 versus 38% in 2013.
The 38% is a little bit of an outlier.
Those prior two years we were at the 39% level.
So we think the 39% level is the – is appropriate and that’s we have included in our guidance.
And then it has the impact on the margins this year 26% versus 27% last year but if you go back and look at the prior two years we were at that 26% level.
So what I am saying is is I think that where we were in 2014 is more realistic and that’s also where we think we will be going forward both on the policy obligation ratio and the margin.
On that Direct Response we really had two issues to hit us there.
The margins were low in Direct Response for the same reason Liberty National higher policy obligation percentage.
That policy obligation percentage is high.
One because there is a little bit of a quarterly fluctuation that’s there that we didn’t have in the fourth quarter of last year.
But also from our trends we have seen that the policy obligation percentage is higher in Direct Response versus the prior years.
So if you look at year-to-date the policy obligation percentage is 48% that’s higher than the 46% to 47% we have had in prior years.
But we from where our trends are showing we think the 48% is the level not only for this year but it will be the level we will have next year as well and that’s what we had included in the midpoint of our guidance.
Not a big change but we think it is – that instead of 46% 47% we will be at 48%.
Okay.
So in the fourth quarter Liberty National agencies were focused on their worksite policy renewals and new sales.
The agencies have refocused on recruiting new agents during the first quarter.
We don’t expect much growth in agent count during the first quarter but we do expect to see an increase in agent count quarter-to-quarter for the remainder of 2015.
And we believe that producing an agent count at the end of 2015 for Liberty National should be between 1 650 to 1 700 agents.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning gentlemen go back to the Part D business and maybe better understand what the underlying trends there were.
So first you talked about high utilization rates of high cost drugs is this still mostly the Hep C drugs? It does not appear to be with respect to the Hep C drugs at all.
In fact for 2015 and the new drug Harvoni we feel very comfortable in the pricing that we have in our PBM and as our preferred – also our preferred pharmacy has been able to negotiate similar rebates and some discounts on those particular drugs in 2015.
So we see those as actually being very well taken into account.
Just it seems to be across the board just other again there is a myriad of other more just the brand A drugs versus using generic drugs.
Okay.
And is there something that just kind of creeped up unexpectedly or because ultimately there are generic and brand drugs out there any given year and things like this year in particular seems to be hitting a little more severely? We did see a little bit of that trend moving in that direction towards the end of 2014 with respect to some of our the new enrollees that we had in 2014 that did seem to be a new trend that we did see in 2014 versus in any of our prior years.
Okay.
And maybe one final question on actually – specifically to the Hep C are you assuming that same utilization rate for ‘15 as the one you saw in ‘14? We are assuming actually a pretty high utilization rate and a little bit of an increased rate or continuing an increased rate into 2015.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We will take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hey good morning.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered I guess not to beat a dead horse on Part D but I am just curious if you are earning 6% to 8% margin and I think the more typical historical margin would have been around 10% give or take how does that – what does that do to the ROE on that business? It drives it down obviously its interesting ROE on that particular business is the hard one to take a look at because there is actually very little capital that is required to maintain and operate that business.
So we don’t tend to look at that on a strictly on ROE basis as much as we are overall looking at our overall margins and overall investment return.
Okay.
And then I understand can you – I think last quarter you told us that in November of ‘15 you expected to get back from the government I think somewhere slightly north of $100 million in cash I assume that number is higher now overall? That is correct.
It is about $195 million that we are actually set to receive from the government in November 2015.
Okay.
And… John we talked about that in the third quarter I think we are talking about it was going to be $165 million it’s gone from $165 million to $195 million.
Okay.
And then – and so if I think about a lot of your assumptions that are baked into ‘15 guide and if we just assume they held constant and I am thinking really more about the new money rate and excess investment income the receipt of that cash towards the end of ’15 all else equal should that lead us to believe that excess investment income in dollars not per share but in dollars is likely actually going to be up in ‘16 versus ‘15 even if it’s only modestly? Yes I would think so part of it depends on our experience in Part D for 2015 in terms of how much receivable we have – that growth from the 2015 business but as to what we are expecting is it will be less and so therefore I think your assumption is right.
We should be able to see a pickup in 2016.
Okay.
And just – and then just one quick following up on the Direct Response margin so I understood your comments on the benefit ratio if I would – policy obligations divided by premiums maybe 48% is the new normal there does that mean that the underwriting margin the new normal is more like a 24% give or take margin there too? Yes John that’s what – we are finishing this year right at 24% and in the midpoint of our guidance we are right at 24%.
Okay.
And then just overall that I know it’s only a one point increase in the benefit ratio there claims ratio but I am curious as you dissect that whether you have seen any – whether you can find exactly what’s driving that.
And I am really more curious whether it’s a result of I know some time ago you increased policy limits on what you are willing to write face amount I think $100 000 give or take and I am wondering if you are seeing some times – some poor results there or not? No John it’s not in the more recent issues.
We are seeing this as policies are issued back in early 2000s.
Okay.
Where the actual claims coming in a little higher than we anticipated at that time.
Okay.
So it’s aging? Right.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you very much.
We will take our next question from Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi thank you.
Thanks for taking the question.
I had just a few follow-ups most of my questions have been asked at this point.
American Income producing agent count could seem quite strong is there some upside perhaps to the sales growth forecast for ’15 which I believe you kept in that same range of 6% to 10%? Producing agent count at the end of 2015 for American Income should be between 6 800 and 7 000 agents that’s what we used in giving our sales forecast.
Okay.
So we don’t want to think about the producing agent count as a leading indicator then of sales growth…? As far as the leading indicator but there is always a lag in sales activity versus agent recruiting and that’s really because sales growth follows agent growth because new agents are generally less productive than veteran agents.
Okay understood.
And just coming back to the Part D I just want to clarify one thing because I guess I am a little surprised the focus on it from the call considering that with change in your margins and the dollar amounts that I believe it’s less than $0.02 a share are you – if we look back a 6% to 8% margin on call it $300 million of premium versus a 10% margin on $180 million of premium.
If it’s the same dollar amount are you basically ambivalent to it? I think you addressed that question earlier on but the higher premium in force that doesn’t create a greater capital need.
Is that correct? No that is correct.
And what we are pretty focused is what that the net underwriting margin in dollars is that’s adding to our bottom line.
As you indicated I think at the midpoint of our guidance we have gone from – on the last call we had pointed to about $25 million of midpoint as far as underwriting margin is concerned and now we are looking in that $21 million to $23 million range.
So you are right that’s really the net impact and that’s really where we are focused on.
Okay.
Appreciate the clarity.
Thanks a lot.
We will take our next question from Kenneth Lee with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi how is it going? Just had a quick follow-up question on life margins a while back there was expectation that life margins for Liberty National could get somewhere on the ballpark of 27% 28% longer term after restructuring towards the variable cost model in American Incomes just wanted to know whether that is still the case because it sounds as if it could be close to 26% right now? Thanks.
Yes Kenneth I think we are expecting 26% and that’s basically what we had in our midpoint of our guidance.
So I think the 27% that we had in 2013 as I mentioned now that is an outlier there.
We think that the difference there was really in the policy obligations 38% in 2013 versus 39% in 2014.
So we expect to be in that 26% range.
And that should – it should remain there plus or minus a little.
Got it.
For the long-term right? Right.
Okay thanks.
And we will take our next question from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
The impact on 2016 from the pension cost and the IT investments can you give us some sense of that? Is there a kind of one-time hit or will that be flat and therefore less of a margin impact in 2016? How should we think about that? Yes with respect to the pension there is a little bit of a larger hit here in 2015 diverse with what would expect to see in 2016 there will still be some carryover effect and some just general higher expenses relating to the new mortality table a lot of 2016 will depend on what happens with interest rates.
Again the discount rate that’s applicable to our 2015 expense is at 4.23% if we get some relief on the rates where that drifts back up toward 5% then that’s going to help relieve some of the pressure from the 2016 expense as well but you shouldn’t see the same magnitude of increase from ‘15 to ‘16 as we saw in ‘14 to ‘15.
As far as the IT go ahead.
Frank as far as the – just the impact of mortality table not interest rates over 60% of that like a one-time as we convert everybody over to mortality table as opposed to going forward.
That’s correct.
And then on the IT investments? Yes.
So on the IT investments you will continue to see strong increases on that from year-to-year.
I would say the increase has been fairly consistent with what you are seeing from ‘14 to ‘15 largely as we have been making some investments over the past couple of years and the depreciation of those investments are starting to really hit the books here in ‘15 and then we will get some of the added depreciation that we are seeing on our investments here in ‘15 we will start to hit it in ‘16.
So you will continue to see some increases there.
Then I had just one follow-up.
Just kind of any broad thoughts on productivity with the economy perhaps getting a little bit better a little faster job growth household formation et cetera do think you are seeing a little more appetite for consumers to buy insurance? Should that be meaningful going forward? I think the increased percent of productivity was less related to the economy is more focused on some changes we are making to the American Income and the other distribution.
We are implementing some new technology to make agents better at rate mapping.
We have new payment systems in place.
It’s specifically each agency to improve productivity so we are less focused on general economy really focusing on each distribution unit and how do we pick up distribution within each unit.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Just want to follow-up on the IT question having followed you guys for 34 years I don’t think I have ever seen an admin expense budget of up 7% going into a year.
And what are you trying to get from the IT expenses that you are building? Is this catching up to the rest of the world on maintenance or is this taking you to another level as far as on the sales perspective? I don’t think it’s catch-up Bob I think it’s really making changes in our investment in each agency.
And so as you look at really new technology has just become available in the last 24 36 months.
So the IT changes in the agency system are staying ahead of the curve not to catch-up.
And Bob I would add though we were – our administrative expenses were virtually flat for 2014 but we benefited by lower pension expense in 2014 that remember last year at this time those were higher.
That drove the pension expense down excluding the impact of the benefit we got there you would have seen growth in our administrative expenses last year.
Got it.
Just so I can understand better though the IT spending this is going to allow your agents to sell better or how does it work? Is this laptop? It’s not laptop Bob it’s our – we want to talk about rate mapping I am talking about the recent technology so it makes agents more efficient.
As we put leads into that system they call on their prospects in order so they spend the least amount of time on the road more time making presentations.
That’s one example.
Another is upgrading our compensation systems.
As we need to treat our compensation we can make those changes more quickly and we can respond to the data we are seeing come out of the agencies.
Before we need to focus our compensation we focus on recruiting retention all of the different metrics we are going to focus on compensation on.
So the technology is really changing quickly in the agency world and we are just trying to be responsive of that and make our agents spend more time in presentations less time in trying to setup appointments and the time it takes to drive those different appointments.
Is this more of a top-line sales or a margin sort of benefit that you will get from these investments? I think it’s in investments but over time we are able to grow our sales force.
Okay.
Is that what you were going to say Gary? No what I was going to say getting back to the impact on administrative expenses even with these additional expenses IT and also the pension expense our ratio to premium is going to be 5.8%.
This year it’s 5.7%.
For 2014 it’s 5.7% but we have been in the 5.8% 5.9% range.
So these are just reasons expenses are going to be a little bit higher this year but our overall expense ratio was going to stay where it has been.
Okay.
So part of it is your premiums are growing faster so you can absorb higher admin expenses? Yes.
Got it.
Thank you.
Go ahead.
No that was it.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hey good morning everybody.
Just Larry could you restate what the AIZ target count is for the agents for the year you broke up a little bit on the lower end? Well sure.
I hope there is distribution given the producing agent count at the end of 2015 for American Income should be 6 800 and 7 000 agents at Liberty National the producing agent count at the end of 2015 should be between 1 650 and 1 700 agents and at Family Heritage at the end of 2015 we expect to have between 840 to 880 agents.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just a quick one most of my questions have been asked given the 4.5% targeted new money rate for the first half of the year and then 4.75% for the second half how should we see the effective portfolio yield come down how much on a quarterly basis? Well for the year we are – if we invest at those ranges we are thinking instead of 5.89% the portfolio will decline – portfolio yield will decline 10 basis points to 5.79% and 5.80% somewhere in that stakes up.
I don’t know that it’s even for a quarter but for the year it would be 10 basis points.
Okay alright.
Thanks guys.
We will take our next questions from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Hi I have a quick couple of follow-ups.
You touched upon the energy space at least with regards to investment I was curious if you expected any impact to sales next year given the turmoil in the energy sector? No we are not expecting any impact on the sales at all from the turmoil in the energy sector.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on the pension and then the new mortality tables I was just curious why those weren’t factored in already at the time of the last – or when the initial guidance was given on the last call? Yes.
The timing Yaron from the information that had been provided out by the Society of Actuaries I mean there had been some proposals that had been floated around earlier in the year.
The final mortality tables and the comments that had been floating around during the year really weren’t available until late in October the final mortality tables were actually released in October of 2014.
So for us to get a reasonable estimate we just did not have a reasonable estimate of what the overall impact of these mortality tables would be on our particular population within our pension plan at the time of the last call.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
And we will take our next questions from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hi just quick follow-up on the higher pension costs there was some discussion earlier in the Q&amp;A about some portion of it likely more one-time in nature some portion of it potentially more of an ongoing issue and I know we have to be concerned about what happens with the discount rate but if – similar to my last question if we assume no real change on the longer term discount rate on the pension block looking out to 2016 how do we think about those overall costs? Yes.
John at this time we don’t have a projection of our 2016 costs it’s been provided to us that takes into account the full impact of those mortality tables.
Okay.
So I don’t really have a good number to give you I don’t anticipate there being a – that there would not be a similar type increase from what we saw here for ’15 but we do think the majority of the increase from ‘14 to ‘15 really came from that change in the mortality table so we wouldn’t expect – I sure don’t expect a similar increase.
Got it.
So it should be it should be more of – in dollar terms there would be expense in ’16 versus ’15 should be reasonably similar? Reasonably similar I would think.
Yes okay.
But no big step back down unless discount moves? Correct.
Thank you.
That’s helpful.
And we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Alright.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those were our comments and we will talk to you again next quarter And this does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Torchmark Corporation First Quarter 2010 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Please note that this call is being recorded as also being simultaneously webcast.
At this time I'll turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Mark McAndrew.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning is Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer Larry Hutchison our General Counsel and Mike Majors Vice President of Investor Relations.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2009 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Net operating income for the first quarter was $127 million or a $1.52 per share a per share increase of 2% from a year ago.
Net income was $122 million or $1.46 per share versus $0.91 a year ago.
Excluding FAS115 our return on equity was 13.6% and our book value per share was $45.37 a 12% increase from a year ago.
On a GAPP reported basis with fixed maturity investments carried at market value book value was $44.13 per share.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 4% to $430 million and life underwriting margins increased 5% to $116 million life net sales were $85 million up 9% from a year ago.
At American Income life premiums were up 10% to $135 million and life underwriting margin was up 9% to $44 million.
Net life sales at American increased 25% to $34 million producing agents in at American Income grew to 4 201 up 20% from a year ago.
It was another outstanding quarter at American Income.
During the quarter we began implementation of a need based sales presentation via laptop computer.
Initial results have been very encouraging.
We will continue to expand introduction of this new sales process over the next three quarters and we project sales growth at American Income to be in the 15% to 20% range for the full year.
In our Direct Response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 6% to a $144 million and like underwriting margins grew 15% of $38 million net life sales were better than anticipated up 8% to $37 million.
As a percentage of life premium like underwriting margin was 26% from the quarter up from 24% a year ago.
We expect this favorable trend to continue for the balance of 2010.
We also expect to see improved sales growth in the 10% to 15% for the next three quarters as a result of successful test conducted in the second half of last year.
Life premiums at Liberty National declined 1% to $74 million and life underwriting margin was down 17% to $14 million.
Net life sales for the Liberty National [office] declined 29% to $9 million and the producing agent count was down to 1 535 12% less than year end.
The agents count at Liberty [harvest] was basically flat since the end of January and net sales have also stabilized sales should improve over first quarter levels going forward although we now expect a small decline for the full year 2010.
On the health side premium revenue excluding part D declined 10% to $203 million and health underwriting margin was down 13% to $35.5 million.
Health net sales decreased 17% from a year ago to $17 million.
Health care reform legislation will have an impact on some of our product portfolio.
The effective products contributed $1.8 million of net sales in the first quarter and represented $109 million of enforced premiums at quarter end.
New sales of these products will be discontinued prior to September of this year but we don’t believe there will be an impact on a rapidly declining enforced block before 2014 which would make the impact immaterial.
Premium revenue for Medicare Part D was $52 million for the quarter a 14% increase while underwriting margin was flat at $5 million.
Part D sales for the quarter grew 64% to $17 million.
Underwriting margin from our annuity business was $140 000 during the first quarter versus a $4.1 million loss a year ago.
Administrate expenses were $38 million down 4% from a year ago.
For the full year we currently project administrative expenses to increase by 1%.
I will now turn the call over the Gary Coleman our Chief Financial Officer for his comments.
Thanks Mark.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment portfolio and capital liquidity.
First the investment portfolio.
On our website are prescheduled to provide summary information regarding our portfolio as of March 31st 2010.
As indicated on the schedules invested assets are $11.4 billion including $10.6 billion of fixed maturities and advertise cost.
Combined RMBS and mortgage loans are $36 million and we no CMBS exposure.
Now the fix maturities $9.7 billion our investment grade with an average rating of A minus.
Below investment grade bonds are $891 million 8.4% of fixed maturities compared to $824 million at 12/31/09 and $1.3 billion a year ago.
The $67 million increase from the fourth quarter is due primarily to downgrade the certain trust preferred securities.
We expect that the percentage of below investment grade bonds at 8.4% is still high relative to our peers.
However due to our significant lower portfolio leverage the percentage of below investment grade bonds or equity excluding FAS115 is 24% which is like to lessen the peer average.
Overall the total portfolio is rated BBB plus same as a year ago.
During the quarter we recognize and other than temporary impairment of $1.7 million pretax at $1.1 million after tax.
In addition we recognize $6 million of after tax net gains on an asset dispositions.
Thus for the quarter we had net realized capital gains of $5 million after tax.
Net unrealized losses is in fixed maturities portfolio were $173 million compared to $456 million at year end '09 and $2.2 billion a year ago.
The decrease in the first quarter is due primarily to credit switch decline more than [trade] relate increased.
Now we’ll go to the asset types of [portfolio].
7% to 4% as a fixed maturities portfolio is in corporate bonds and another 13% as redeemable preferred stock.
All at $1.4 billion of redeemable preferred have a stated maturity date and other characteristics that make them more like debt securities and today all scheduled interest payment have been received none of these securities are perpetual preferred.
Municipal bonds comprised 1% of the portfolio compared to 3% a year ago.
Since the second quarter 2009 we have approached a $178 million of Build America Bonds.
These are taxable debt securities issued by state or local governments who receive a federal subsidy equal to 35% of the required interest payment.
Our BAB bonds are rated AA and have an average yield of 6.4%.
Due to concentration considerations we do not expect to make significant investments in BAB bonds in the remainder of 2010.
The remaining 2% of the portfolio consists primarily of government related securities our CDO exposures down to $54 million and two securities where the underlying collateral is bank insurance company plus preferred securities.
Now to conclude the discussion on investments I will cover the investment yield.
We ended the fourth quarter 2009 with excess cash due primarily to the portfolio repositioning undertaken late in third quarter to reduce amount of loan investment grade bonds.
Entering the year we had approximately $590 million in cash and shorter term investments.
In the first quarter we invested $676 million at investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial municipal and utilities sectors.
We invested at an average annual effective yield of 6% and average rating rate minus and average life of 23 to 26 years.
For the entire portfolio the first quarter yield was 6.79% compared to the 6.86% yield earned in the previous quarter and the 6.97% earned in the first quarter 2009.
The decline in yield is due primarily to the previously mentioned portfolio re-positioning and to the lower new money yield.
As of March 31st the yield [doing] portfolio is now 6.76%.
We ended the quarter with $372 million cash and short term investments.
A $178 million in the insurance companies and $194 million in the parent company.
Regarding our RBC in the past we maintained our RBC ratio at a 300% plus level.
This ratio is lower than some of our peer companies that has been sufficient for our company in light our consistently statutorily earnings relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and the level of our ratings.
At year end 2009 the RBC ratio was 355%.
As adjusted capital of $1.5 billion divided by the required capital of $416 million.
Adjusted capital included approximately $70 million of additional deferred tax assets allowed under 2009 change in regulatory accounting rule.
As reported adjusted capital was approximately $225 million in excess of that required for the target 300% ratio.
Excluding the additional tax benefits the excess capital was a $155 million at [property] 109.
In addition assuming no impairment are downgrades in the next week quarters we estimate that excess capital will increase about $90 million during 2002 because of statutory income would exceed dividends paid to the parent company.
As such excluding the $70 million for tax benefits excess cash with the insurance company level would grow to $245 million by the end of the year.
Although we expect some level of impairments and downgrades over next three quarters.
$245 million of excess capital should be more than sufficient to absorb them.
Now looking at our liquidity the available cash at the parent consists of cash on hand and the expected free cash flow from operations.
Free cash flow results from dividends received by the parent from the subsidiaries lesser dividends paid towards our shareholders and the interest paid on the debt.
The parent company began the year with cash and short-term investments of $155 million.
We expect that the parent's free cash flow from operations will be around $280 million for the full year at 2010.
$84 million of that free cash was generated in the first quarter.
Of that amount we used $33 million to reduce commercial paper and $12 million to repurchase $220 000 TMK shares.
The remaining $39 million was invested in short term.
Thus at March 31st the parent had $194 million of cash and short-term investments.
In addition we expect free cash flow from operations will provide approximately $195 million of additional cash over the next three quarters.
So in summary regarding our liquidity and capital first of all we expect to have more than enough excess capital and the interest comings to handle the impact of downgrades and impairment.
In fact excess capital levels at the insurance companies in 2010 would be more than sufficient to absorb even the extraordinary level of impairments in downgrades we experienced in 2009.
As such we don’t expect to have to contribute capital from the parent companies down to the insurance companies as we did last year.
Second we currently have $194 million in cash and invested assets of the parent company and it currently expect to maintain liquid assets at the parent around that level for the remainder of 2010.
And finally as mentioned we expect the parent company to generate $195 million of additional free cash flow over the next three quarters.
We will use this cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect the share repurchases will be one that uses that excess cash.
Those are my comments and I will not turn it back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
We currently estimate earnings per share for 2010 will begin at $6.10 to $6.20 range assuming no additional share repurchase.
We’ve not included repurchases in our guidance due to the uncertainties surrounding the timing and volume of shares acquired.
Those are my comment for this morning.
I will now open it up for questions Mark.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Hi good morning and thank you everyone.
Was the trend on 60% RBC Gary is that correct? We are slightly lower than the first quarter but due to some timing our dividend in income but there will be at that in the second quarter.
Okay so the truce is kind of re-bounce back up to 360 by the end of 2Q? Right.
With the timing of the subsidiaries stuff and then on the parent cash is that I heard right $194 million is that correct?.
Yes that’s all we have on hand at March 31st.
Okay and that was targeted to what at by the end of the year? With over another $195 million Right we’re going to have another $195 million of free cash and be generated over the next three quarters.
So those two numbers that are similar got it and then this is probably for Mark back to Liberty National obviously sales were weaker there as you acknowledged in the opening comments but you do have confidence that that can kind of net out to a small decline for the full year which means that it's kind of got to turn the corner pretty quick and so I just would like to kind get more color on how Liberty National turns the corner from what we saw in the last two quarters? Again if I look at the trends the agent count declined that we saw in the first quarter occurred in January really since the end of January through today the count the agent count is down less than 1%.
So it's basically stable and if I look at the trends of business being submitted and issued at Liberty it is trending upwards it's still got ways to go.
We do have some changes that we intend to make here this summer which we think will add to it but again we are not projecting huge increases there.
By the time we get to fourth quarter we have little easier comparisons.
So I am saying that I expect sales I think the first quarter level of sales and agent count will be the low point for the year and we will see upwards trends from there but realistically it will be probably be fourth quarter before we actually see growth in our sales versus a year ago just because of the easier comparison.
But right now we are still expecting somewhere in the 1% to 3% decline in sales of Liberty for the year.
Just one more clarification in your opening comments the 10% to 15% sales growth outlook that was at Globe right the direct channel? Yes.
And next is Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
I had a question on just your outlook for health insurance sales.
You're down 17% in the first quarter.
The agent count at American seems like it's declining even more so and then you mentioned the modest impact from healthcare reform as well.
As you go through 2010 would you expect your sales to get better through the year or should we expect a similar rate through the rest of the year?  We expect our health sales will improve as year goes on although our guidance right now expects second quarter sales to be roughly the first quarter level.
Starting to see some improvement in the third quarter again I first genuinely expected to introduce a new Medicare segment plan as well as have the repricing of our existing plans and after that we are expecting relatively modest growth in the third quarter with better growth in the force assuming some one of our group sales are always better in the fourth quarter as well as we expect to see some benefits from the disenrollees from Medicare advantages plan.
And then secondly on just your share buybacks if I look from 2005 through 2008 you're buying anywhere from $300 million to $400 million worth of shares each year.
From here on out given where your RBC is how should we think about how much you can do in terms of buybacks later this year or into next year as well?  There are some uncertainties there right now our current thinking is that $194 million of free cash as Gary said is probably about level of liquid assets we are going to hold with the parent just to provide some cushion.
We still expect to see another $195 million of excess cash coming into the parent during the next three quarters based upon our current plan.
We would expect to spend most of that probably on share repurchase borrowing on acquisition or some other better use for the money whereas next year we may still well hold that cushion.
And the incremental cash should be used for buybacks? Well again borrowing a better use for it Jimmy.
And the better use would just be buying a block of business or an acquisition opportunity if one arises.
Right? I would prefer to make an acquisition versus just buy a closed block of business.
Is the environment getting better now or have you identified anything or is that something you've identified that you're looking at or are you just expecting things to improve? I can say we are always looking Jimmy but that’s what I can say on that.
Jeff Schuman with KBW is next.
A couple of items.
The annuity earnings I think were a bit lower than we would have normally expected in a decent equity market quarter.
Is this kind of a new run rate or was that depressed a little bit this quarter?  No we got a little bit of a loss normally as you noticed we usually have Rosemary Montgomery our Chief Actuary but Rosemary has elected to take retirement so I don’t have those numbers in front of me.
Jeff I don’t know if anything that’s really unusual in the quarter if you compare sequentially we had some unlocking in the fourth quarter last year that we have benefited from but its as in that I don’t know if there is anything unusual in this quarter.
Okay.
I can say that when we look at our guidance for the balance of the year we are expecting pretty small really actually under 100 000 our quarter of annuity margins.
Less than $100 000 okay.
Okay that's helpful.
Next the American Income sales looking for 15% to 20% growth for the full year.
To what extent is that do you think that would be driven by higher agent count versus productivity? I know you didn't mention that there's kind of new needs-based sales process that you sounded positive about.
So is that part of the growth driver there or was it mostly just agent count? That’s primarily growth in agents.
Again I think you’ll notice that our I think somebody brought up that our first year agent count in American Income decline slightly in the quarter.
That I’m not concerned with in fact in retrospect there was big push put on in December to American Income to break to 4 000 agent mark and as a result we saw an increase in our terminations in January and February but recruiting is still running at record levels and the terminations came back to normal levels in March so we fully expect to see that type of continued growth in our agent count.
We are not adding in much at this point for changes in with the laptop sales presentation.
Next question will come from Ed Spehar with Banc of America.
Gary and Mark I got question on capital if we look at the numbers you gave us and we think about I guess how you used to look at funds available for share repurchase would it be correct to add the $245 million of excess at the sub plus the $194 million in cash at the end of March plus the $195 million of free cash over the next three quarters.
Well Ed never really use again the excess capital at the insurance companies is not going to be available for share repurchase and as we said just taking what we think is a cautious approach what we think we believe that insurance companies are all very well capitalized have more than enough capital to cover most any contingency we do intend to hold some liquid assets of the parent company for the time being.
Okay then sort of a related question would be if we are thinking about potential share buyback over the next two years the $195 million of free cash over the next three quarters it seems like that something you would be willing to use buyback stock this year if we think about next year without touching the cash and short term at the parent and the current the expected capital margin at the sub level would it be correct to think about another assuming a reasonable benign realized investment loss experienced this year would it be reasonable to think about a $350 million or more type of number potentially next year.
That might be a little high free cash flow for this year is going to be 280 Gary isn't that based on sort of what you would consider to be a depressed net statutory earnings number? Yes you’re right.
That’s true because we have the realized losses of about $100 million last year that impacted.
So yes that $280 million could go to $350 million.
Unless we have impairment we only got $1 million to the first quarter so and we are expecting we’re not going to have that level that we had last year so yes you could get up in the $350 million level free cash flow.
Next question will come from Paul Sarran with Macquarie.
It’s a question on Direct Response sales growth of 8% on the quarter was better than what you had guided to of low single digits in the first quarter.
So I guess I have two questions related to that.
One is there anything specific you can point to that kind of explains that better than expected performance and two do you still expect the same level of sales boost for the rest of the year when you rollout the new enhanced packaging in the second quarter? Well primarily in the first quarter I guess the biggest surprise was in our insured media where we insured one of our offers and other media.
Those response rates made a nice comeback in the first quarter and higher than anticipated and that contributed most of the improvement in our first quarter sales.
We still do expect to see on the Direct Response side the improvements that we talked about before with the beginning for the balance of the year.
We still expect to see some of that turn to 15% sales growth after the balance of the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on Liberty National you mentioned further changes going in place this summer.
Can you just elaborate on that comment a little bit? Really at this point I can't because they haven’t been finalized and they haven’t been announced so its something we are still in the process by the next go I should have more details on that.
Okay and do you have an outlook for new agent recruiting at Liberty for the balance of the year? I mean should we expect first year agent counts to rebound quickly towards where they were the last couple years or with changes in comp and office closings and some better employment opportunities in the economy should we expect a slower rebuilding process from current levels than we've seen in the past? Again I think it will be a slower rebuilding process and mainly because we did have a significant turnover on our management ranks? So that’s our biggest challenge right now is rebuilding our management ranks really before we see major improvement in our recruiting efforts so we are projecting modest growth there in the agent count for the balance of this year.
Okay.
And then how long does it take to kind of rebuild that management ranks? Is that a one year project two year three year? Do you have any sense? Well I would say it’s a one two year together to where we needed to be.
We should see significant improvement in 2011.
But yes I would say it's fair to say it’s a one to two year project.
Next question will come from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney Medicare Part D the premiums were up double-digit compared to sort of mid single digit last year.
Was there more price or was this a better long-term versus lapses? Bob we saw an uptake particularly in the fourth quarter on our group sales we did pickup some significant group Part D sales which improved not so much price although you noticed that our margins were flat when we priced our Part D for 2010 back in may of 2009.
Basically the margin we are going to see this year is about one point less and what we desire which we hope to make up next year our price is still in a ballpark with most other people but most of the uptake has been in our good side.
I thought when you went in this a couple years ago the thought process was great return on capital but it's going to be sort of slow gradual erosion sort of in the top line.
Was that a misimpression or has this bills business held together more than you expected? Well prior to this year it has been the track that it has been on probably now I think our opinions changed with healthcare reform legislation and actually the expected cut in funding for Medicare advantage plans.
Most of people had the Part D where they have there Medicare advantage.
So I would expect as we see an improvement on our Medicare supplement sales that we would also see similar improvement on our Part D sales and again how we continue to see good market there they are in a good size.
The (inaudible) [break rate] I was focusing on the Part D and the bigger your med supp on the health side the things broke right with Obama care when could we see sales and even being more optimistic premiums start to improve? Is this a year or two out or three to five years out?  I wish I had a crystal ball Bob I think we are going to have a much better idea between now and the end of the year.
What to expect there again around the 1st of June we expect to have new product with new pricing on addition products.
We are seeing more interest particularly in independent agency world.
We got lot more agents contacting us with renewed interest in Medicare supplement.
But we at this point we really don’t know how many dis-enrollments are going to be at the end of this year although based upon CMS estimates over the next seven years I expect roughly 7.5 million to this dis-enrollment.
But we don’t know what the timing that was going to be.
So there is a lot of big question mark there and in our guidance we haven’t assumed anything as far as any significant growth in Medicare this year.
But I think we will learn a lot during the course of this year.
How much and how fast that really occurred.
Last question has there been any buyback in April and could you quantify that if there has been?  Yes we’ve spent $8 million in bought back another 150 000 shares.
Eric Berg - Barclays Capital has a question.
My first question relates to the health business.
What are the specific products that you expect to be affected most profoundly by the healthcare legislation and why?  We’ve been selling our products through United American really since the Medicare settlement marker place deteriorated.
That is a broad benefit hospital search goal type power so it has internal limits for you but for example it would pay if you go to the hospital it could pay after $3000 a day while you are in a hospital.
More if you are in a emergency room that's a broad benefit product I think our average premium on that was over $2000 a year for that product.
But it has the lower mandate in loss ratio.
But we are seeing in the healthcare legislation and benefits do not meet the standards being set out.
But that is the business that we have de-emphasized and basically gotten out over the last couple of years.
That is what you are seeing run of the books.
So it's only $1.8 million sales in the first quarter we still have roughly 100 million on the books.
But by the end of 2013 we would expect that block of business to be down another 70% of that business full of flat stuff like that so it would not be a significant portion of our overall business.
You're saying by 2013 what percentage of it will have gone away?  About a 109 we expect about based on current rates roughly 70% of (inaudible).
Over next three year  Yes.
Okay.
My next question relates to agent recruiting.
You have been busy in recent years restructuring your relationships with your agents not only at Liberty but also at American Income and it's just striking that the agent count at American Income has been moving pretty steadily upward whereas it has moved in the opposite direction at Liberty and at United American.
Why is that? Help us understand the difference in the outcomes there?  Well an explanation would take longer than I have in this call I’d be happy to sit down with you sometime you’d like to more details but there are significant differences between the two.
One American Income has a unique niche they have there are some things there.
It was interesting that our newest board member happens to be chief operation officer 7/11 and obviously talking to him is some is like the difference between a company-owned storey in a franchise.
American Income is more of a franchise.
These people they are independent contractors the SGAs they manage all their own expenses.
We pay them straight commission and they are much more entrepreneurs I guess versus at Liberty National we rent the offices all these people are employees.
There are significant differences in the way the two operate.
Last question I'd like to re-ask a question I asked in a prior call which is understanding that there are important uncertainties here regarding healthcare and the future of your health business and nonetheless like you to take a fresh crack at this question.
What do you think three years from now the business is going to look like on the health side? And by that I mean specifically which distribution channels will most likely be selling your health products and what will the complexion of the business be both and well the new business.
Where will the focus be in terms of new business and who will be selling it when the dust settles so to speak? Well as far as we are concerned I think we continue be in the March so again if I look at Liberty National most of their health business is being written through favorable reduction on the work side.
None of those supplemental health products are being affected by the legislation.
We expect that to continue to be a growing market and obviously Medicare supplement.
I fully expect that market to rebound I think we will see a rebound in the independent agent market faster than we will in our captive of distribution.
But three years from now that’s a long way to look but I do expect the bulk of our health sales I would expect we wouldn’t be back with high percentage of our health sales would again be Medicare supplement three year from now.
So in summary it sound like Liberty will remain an important distributor United American and you will be selling both Medicare supplement and [survive] busiest product? Yes we will.
Those two product lines are unaffected at least have no negative impacts from healthcare legislation and on the Medicare side we think it will have a significant positive impact.
Next question will come from Mike Grondahl with Northland Securities.
Mark can you just kind of give us a quick overview of the new sales presentation? I think it's the laptop version that you're using in American Income and just kind of how you expect that to roll out and kind of affect productivity and sort of sales levels going forward? Okay I’ll try to be again as brief as I can but in the past and Bernard Rapaport founder of American Income I think the world of he put the current sales presentation of American Income he put together roughly 40 years ago and it was targeting set premium for people to invest in their life insurance he called it in hour of power so they were trying to get people to take one hours pay a week and buy life insurance with.
What we are trying to move to is more of a selling people what they need first thing we do is take a survey do you own a home? Do you have children? What is your income? What are your expenses? And gather financial information and look at with our current existing coverage is whether be group individual and the laptop then analyzes it and identifies both the amount of coverage that we believe they need and the type of product that best fits that need.
For there number of advantages to it.
One we have consistency of sales presentation; it makes them far easier to train a new agent as far as sales presentation.
We believe we will see a higher average face amount being sold as well as hopefully a higher average premium but a side benefit of that we hope that it will also improve our new agent retention because we think it will make it easier for a foreign agent become productive.
That’s good to hear when do you think that surged the cycle in a little bit?.
Well again we just we have started with just a handful of agency we want to control the training of this we wanted to be done properly and so I think we will see a trend in as the year goes along but if its impossible at this point really project what that’s going to add it's just too early in the process.
Again we just started this quarter introducing our first agents on it.
So just too early by next quarter I should have much harder numbers on what we could expect to add.
Great.
We look forward to hearing that too.
Thank you.
John Nadel Sterne Agee has a next question.
Agee</strong> I joined a little bit late so I might have missed this but the sequential improvement in excess investment income if I think about first quarter versus fourth quarter is most of that driven by the reinvestment of the proceeds from some of your portfolio repositioning that happened late last year? John that's the main reason if you remember in the third quarter we sold almost $750 million of bonds and half of those were below investment grade bonds but we did that in the last week of the quarter and we ended the third quarter with $1.1 billion of cash and short-term money we got that invested large part in the fourth quarter but some of those win over in the first quarter we saw if you just look at invested assets in the fourth quarter or third quarter you saw a good growth but we got that’s so late in the fourth quarter we didn’t get the fall in income for the quarter’s revenue income.
We finally got the first quarter’s full growth of income in the first quarter this year.
So that’s just a delay.
Sorry Coleman we have to come down a yearend we were holding $590 million of cash Gary and that was on the $375 million at the end of the first quarter which we had expected to coming down in the second quarter.
Agee</strong> Yes.
What's the pace there that we should be thinking about it and I saw the new money yield it was around 6% in the first quarter.
I suspect it's relatively stable at this point still? Yeah we’re still around the 6% level and we are at $372 million of cash in short-term at the end of the first quarter.
The $194 million will depend will probably we are looking at different ways to invest and at this point there’s any short-term money well the $178 million short-term at the insurance company we’ll get that down a little bit but we’ll always just because of the timing we’ll do it near a $100 million.
So we’re pretty much got the money fully invested at this point.
Agee</strong> So the net investment income level in the first quarter that goes into your excess investment income is a reasonably good level to think about going forward? Well yes in other words it will grow.
I think over prior grow about the same sequential levels it had in prior to this the first quarter was little bit anomaly but where as last year investment income in total in 1% because of all the cash we have this in 2010 is going to be closer to a 10% increase.
Next is Steven Schwartz with Raymond James and Associates I'm going to admit I'm slightly confused here.
It seems to me that you're suggesting that the $195 million of free cash flow that you're suggesting that you expect over the next three quarters is available and likely to be used for share repurchase.
The guidance assumes no share repurchase.
I just want to make sure that that is correct.
The guidance does not include any additional share repurchase.
The $195 million currently we would expect to use most of that in the share repurchase assuming nothing else comes along that would be that we feel like it would be a better use for it.
Okay great.
I just wanted to make sure that I understood that.
And then just following up on a couple of more that were asked the block of business that will be affected by PPACA just for information's sake what's the underwriting margin on that? Would you happen to know Mark? Its less than 10% normally we have to call in Rosemary but my recollection is that right around 8% Right around 8% okay.
And then could you remind us I remember what happened with the agent count at Liberty National.
There was poor first year and even sooner persistency.
You made some changes to improve that.
That hurt your agent count.
Did you do something in January or has this thing just leveled out and the people are going to make under the new commission structure are the people who are just going to make it? I think most of the changes were made back middle of last year and I think it was kind of finally reach bottom in January.
Although on a plus side our persistency is now back at the 2007 levels which is a plus although we hope we continue to improve on that.
But I think it just took that long for the replication to flow [okay for yourself] Our next question comes from Colin Devine with Citigroup Good morning.
If we look at the sales and I guess the growth in underwriting margin on the life side that you've been putting up in Direct Response and American Income it's certainly substantially higher than probably what most of us have associated with Torchmark and also the markets you're in.
What do you attribute to your success because clearly there's other companies we're looking at that are struggling.
Where are you taking this share from and what is it that you're doing so right that others clearly are not? Well Colin I think one of our big advantage is we for the most of our controller distribution.
I think that one of reasons we have higher margins and we have higher underwriting margins in American Income and Globe.
If I look at American Income we just kind of model there that works I don’t know how to explain that any other way we had to make some changes over the years to get it where it is but now we believe all the pieces are in place.
We can sustain that type of sales growth gradually double digit sales growth and definitely going forward.
The Direct Response it's grown every year since 1985 so it just has long history we have some extremely good people there and we are just keep finding ways to do things better and continue to achieve growth.
So I don’t know if there any magic to it we have we believing we have the best people with the knowledge obviously our ability to control cost is a big plus for us one of the reasons we have very little competition there.
I guess that also leads into we think of Liberty in a sense do you need to have perm agents and does that need to be a core part of what Torchmark does? I mean how long do you give it to get turned around and back on track before you start asking maybe some more difficult questions given that you've got the success in the other two channels?  Well I feel obviously believe we can and will grow Liberty National Liberty Nationals grow it hasn’t seen growth rates similar to American Income in the 30 years as their own company but we do have to change the model and we are changing the model at Liberty and as we are moving more towards what we have in American Income.
I still believe in the next 12 to 24 months we will have the pieces in place at Liberty that we need.
I look from 2003 to 2007 we saw decline in the EGM sales in American Income.
We identify the problems.
We knew it was going to take time to get changes in place that was needed to grow that company.
But we did and now we are saving best for that I believe the same will happen at Liberty National.
So still going with the per agent force and that cost structure you think can be viable going forward versus going to a pure variable comp system?  I think there is somewhere between I know that is something we have release shift in that direction.
We may not get all the reporting to what we are in American Income.
But we got to do something or even just for some of the accounting little changes that will see.
We will move to more than variable cost structure at Liberty National.
And then turning directions on the sort of cash flow numbers that you put up the 350 how dependent is that or how tied is it to the very strong growth and that you're putting up at Direct and American Income? The sales continue certainly at their pace.
Are you able to generate enough excess cash flow by continuing to shrink the health business to kind of fund the growth on the life and keep that 350 number or is there some sensitivity to it we should be thinking? If you're seeing the strong sales to sort of ratchet it down the expectations on buybacks or dividend increases? Again we haven’t run our actual cash flow projection for next year.
There’s no doubt that the more we increase sales it does have some impact on what your stats are earnings.
Although I would point out that at Globe we are continuing for example on our insert media I said the response rates were up but we still spend less money in the first quarter then we did it in the first quarter a year ago so that’s a nice thing in that particularly at Globe and Direct response where we are seeing growth in sales so that’s going to a growth and level our expenses.
Well I would add is that Colin we have seen the growth in the statutory earnings in the past to be about 6% or 7% with the new sales of the American Income.
It's not going to drive it down them that much.
We are still be running in 5% range.
Just a final one we haven't talked about first command in a long time.
Has there really been any change to your outlook there or it's just going to slowly continue to shrink for a while? While we visited with them here this last quarter.
They are optimistic that they will see turnaround in the military market place and we haven’t included any turnaround there.
We are including in our guidance for sales continue to balance the first quarter level for the balance of the year Paul Sarran with Macquarie has a follow up question Two quick questions.
A few years ago ran into some problems after floating too many agents and management pulled too quickly resulting in some lower productivity and higher agent turnover.
Is there anything that you learned from that experience that will help you when you go to rebuild Liberty National now is there any specific difference? Okay you are not coming across perfectly clear but sure that we learn lessons from that absolutely that's why when I talk about will the turnaround there be dramatic will it be quick no it will take some time.
That's why I think a year to two year timeframe is more reasonable and because we did learned a lesson we have standards for promoting people in the management which we are going to stick with and as we turn that company around we want the growth that we achieve to be sustainable.
Okay.
And then just I'll try and speak up.
One unrelated follow-up question.
Could you just run through the RBC numbers you gave earlier again total adjusted capital and prior capital if you have it and the impacts of temporary changes? Take that Gary? What I had mentioned earlier is its year in '09 our adjusted capital was $1.5 billion [1.476 billion] and the required capital is $416 million which gave us the 355% ratio and that ratio would give us excess capital $225 million over the 300% that we have managed during the past also mentioned as a $225.70 million gain from the increase in deferred tax benefits was allowed this year so excluding that the growth in excess capital $155 million and I said that that could grow another $90 million this year assuming no impairments and downgrades over the last three quarters because our statutory income is going to exceed what we will dividend out and insurance companies to the parent And you don't have an update of required capital at first quarter? Well I do the ratio was more to 340% level but I mentioned also earlier the reason for that is we had more in terms of dividends required to be paid of the companies then what we received in income in the first quarter but that will reverse in the second quarter and where the dividends will be lower than the income coming in so we will be right back at the 355% level.
Next we will take a follow up question from Ed Spehar Banc of America.
Mark I was wondering back on the Medicare advantage dis-enrolment possibility and the CMF numbers which you cited which would say that there’s a $7 million plus seniors that could be coming into traditional Medicare can you help us a little bit with how to think about that number versus what happened at the beginning of the 2000 I guess 2000 may be 2001 period and how to think about may be if I look at your med supp sales now how many millions of how many seniors you are adding each year something to give us sense of how to think about that number? Well that’s something we had actually we went back and we looked at the last time that was significant number of Medicare it's an old release because I had the same question Ed back in around 2008 we were picking it up look like roughly 3% of the dis-enrollees was basically the share that we were picking up.
That’s probably not an unreasonable number going forward.
So I guess that’s about as good as I need to hear.
Now when those dis-enrollees will occur it’s a still guess but that’s where I’m kind of loving it.
I don’t see any reason why we shouldn’t be able to pick up roughly the same percentage we picked up last time we sent a significant number of dis-enrollees.
Okay.
So then Mark I guess the follow-up would be if you look at your level of Medicare supplement sales now how many seniors are you selling business to kind of today at an annual basis? Ed I don’t have numbers right in front of me but we can get those numbers for you right now we’ve seen a little up-tick in our individual Medicare sales but nothing significant.
I think there’s a number as far as premium item website as far as where the Medicare sales are.
We can get you some insured accounts if you like to add.
Yes.
I guess just to try to put in perspective so if you were somehow able to pick up 210 000 people or something what that would mean? I don’t know what our average premium is today but the last I looked at it was something in excess of $2 000 per sale so the average premium so it's not going fall of that from number.
What were your med supp sales kind of running at now? I have got that here somewhere well I don’t have it right in from of me Ed.
Again its our Medicare segment sale I will split out on an exhibit on website.
At this time we have no questions in the queue.
I will turn the conference over to our host for any closing or additional remarks.
Well that’s all of our comments for the day.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning and we will see it next quarter.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude our conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining the call today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2014 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Then I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the second quarter was $133 million or $1.05 per share a per share increase of 30% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $127 million or $1 per share a 2% decrease on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities and amortized cost our return on the equity as of June 30 was 14.7% and our book value per share was $28.91 a 7% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share was $33.94 approximately the same as a year ago.
In our Life insurance operations premium revenue grew 5.7% to $520 million while life underwriting margin was $139 million down 1% from a year ago.
Despite the growth in premium underwriting margin declined primarily due to higher claims in Direct Response.
For the full year we expect life underwriting margin to increase 1% to 3% over 2014.
Life sales increased 6% to $108 million.
On the Health side premium revenue grew 8% to $232 million and health underwriting margin grew 4% to $52 million.
The growth in underwriting margin lagged the growth in premium due to the large amount of group business added in 2014 which has lower margins than our other health business.
For the full year we expect health underwriting margin to increase 2% to 4%.
Health sales increased 8% to $31 million.
Administrative expenses were $47 million for the quarter up 3% from a year ago and in line with our expectations.
As a percentage of premium administrative expenses were 5.7% the same as a year ago.
For the full year we anticipate that administrative expenses will be up around 6% to 7% and around 5.8% of premium.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations.
Thank you Gary.
I will now go over the results for each company.
At American Income life premiums were up 9% to $207 million and life underwriting margin was up 6% to $64 million.
Net life sales were $50 million up 13% due primarily to increased agent counts.
The average agent count for the second quarter was 6 603 up 15% over a year ago and up 5% from the first quarter.
The producing agent count at the end of the second quarter was 6 516.
We expect life sales growth for the full year 2015 to be within the range of 11% to 13%.
Our Direct Response operations at Globe Life life premiums were up 7% to $188 million but life underwriting margin declined 16% to $37 million.
Net life sales were flat at $45 million.
We expect 4% to 6% life sales growth for the full year 2015.
At Liberty National life premiums were $68 million approximately the same as a year ago.
Our life underwriting margin was $18 million down 3% from the year ago quarter.
Net life sales grew 6% to $9 million.
Our net health sales increased 4% to $4 million.
The average producing agent count for the second quarter was 1 550 up 4% from a year ago and up 6% from the first quarter.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 550.
Life net sales growth is expected to within a range of 5% to 7% for the full year 2015.
Health net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 2% to 4% for the full year 2015.
At Family Heritage health premiums increased to 8% to $55 million while health underwriting margin increased 5% to $11 million.
Health net sales were up 4% to $13 million.
The average producing agent account to the second quarter was 960 up 27% from a year ago and up 22% from the first quarter.
The producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 969.
We expect health sales growth to be within a range from 8% to 10% for the full year 2015.
At United American General Agency health premiums increased 16% to $88 million.
Net health sales increased from $9 million to $10 million.
Individual sales grew 21% to $7 million while group sales declined 6% to $2.8 million.
For the full year 2015 we expect growth in individual sales to be around 15% to 20%.
As we discussed last quarter we expect lower group sales in 2015 due to the unusual number of large group cases we acquired in 2014.
Premium revenue from Medicare part D declined 11% to $75 million while the underwriting margin declined from $9 million to $5 million.
The decline in underwriting margin was in line with our expectations was due to the increase in Part D drug cost discussed our previous call.
We expect Part D premiums of $305 million to $315 million for the full year 2015.
Expect margin as a percentage of premium to be approximately 6% to 8%.
I'll now turn the call back to Gary.
I will spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $57 million approximately the same as the second quarter of 2014.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income increased 5%.
We have discussed on previous calls the effect of Part D on excess investment income.
Excess investment income was negatively impacted by Part D to the extent of $2 million in the second quarter of 2015.
Excluding the negative impact of Part D excess investment income would have been at 2% compared to the year ago quarter and up about 7% on a per share basis.
For the full year 2015 we expect excess investment income to decline by about 1% to 2%; however on a per share basis we should see an increase of about 3% to 4%.
At the midpoint of our 2015 guidance we're expecting a drag on excess investment income from Part D of approximately $8 million.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets were $13.6 billion including $13.1 billion of fixed maturities and amortized cost.
As of the fixed maturities $12.5 billion our investment grade with an average rating of A- and below investment grade bonds are $580 million compared to $563 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.4% the same as a year ago.
With the portfolio leverage of 3.6 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains on fixed maturities is 16%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A- same as the year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in a fixed maturity portfolio of $1 billion approximately $935 million lower than at the end of the first quarter.
The decline in unrealized gains were generated by higher interest rates not by concerns over credit quality.
Due to the recent events in Greece I'd like to everyone of our limited exposure there.
We have no direct exposure to Greek sovereign debt and we have no exposure to companies that do business primarily in Greece.
We don’t expect to realize any losses should Greece exit the Euro zone.
To complete the investment portfolio discussion I'd like to address our investments in the energy sector.
I believe the risk of realizing any losses in the foreseeable future is minimal for the following reasons.
Over 96% of our energy holdings are investment grade.
At the end of second quarter our energy portfolio had net unrealized gain of $69 million.
Less than 8% of our energy holdings are in the oilfield service and drilling sector.
We have reviewed our energy holdings and concluded that while we may see some downgrades we believe that the companies we invest in can withstand low prices for an extended duration.
Now to investment yield in the second quarter we invested $250 in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial and financial sectors.
We invested at an average yield of 4.7% an average rating of A- and an average life of 30 years.
For the entire portfolio second quarter yield was 5.85% down 7 basis points from the 5.92% yield in the second quarter of 2014.
At June 30 the portfolio yield was approximately 5.83%.
The midpoint of our guidance for 2015 is same as the new money yield of 5.0% for the two quarters of the year.
And one last thing.
We are encouraged by the potential for higher interest rates.
As discussed previously on analyst calls rising new money rates will have a positive impact on operating income by driving up excess investment income.
We are not concerned about potential unrealized losses that are interest rate driven reflects it on the balance sheet as we would not expect to convert them to realized losses.
We have the intent and more importantly the ability to hold our investments through maturity.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank to discuss share repurchases and capital.
Thanks Gary.
First I'd like to briefly discuss a few items impacting our 2015 earnings guidance.
As Gary mentioned growth in life underwriting income lagged behind the growth in premium in the second quarter due to higher policy obligations in our Direct Response operations.
In the second quarter this year policy obligations at Direct Response were 52% of premiums versus 49.1% in the first quarter and 48.1% for all of 2014.
As discussed on our last call we thought the percentage would trend higher during 2015 and be around 49% for the year primarily due to anticipated higher claims related to policies issued in calendar years 2000 through 2007.
With claims data through June 30 we are now seeing higher claims than anticipated on policies issued in 2011 through 2013 as these policies exit a two-year contestability period.
Beginning in 2011 we introduced the use of prescription drug database information into our underwriting procedures for certain adult policies with an expectation that our mortality experience would be better on such policies than historical experience.
While actual mortality related to policies issued in 2011 through 2013 has not been greater than historical levels they are higher than we assumed when the policies were issued.
Approximately 9% of the premium collected in 2015 relate to policies issued in 2011 through 2013 were used as a prescription drug database.
We believe the higher than anticipated claims will continue throughout the year and thus we are now revising our estimate of policy obligations for the full-year 2015 to a range of 50% to 51% of premiums.
At the midpoint of this range the Direct Response obligations will be approximately $12 million higher than previously estimated.
This increase is in the expected policy obligations at Direct Response is the primary driver of the $0.05 reduction in the midpoint of our guidance from $4.28 to $4.23.
Now regarding our share repurchases and capital position.
In the second quarter we spent $86.3 million to buy1.5 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $56.93.
So far in July we have used $15.8 million to purchase 269 000 shares.
For the full year through today we have spent approximately $192 million of parent company cash to acquire 3.5 million shares at an average price of $55.25.
The parent started the year with liquid assets of $57 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow during the remainder of 2015.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
We expect free cash flow in 2015 to be in the range of $355 million to $360 million.
Thus including the $57 million available from assets on hand at the beginning of the year we currently expect to have around $417 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
As previously noted to-date we have used $192 million of this cash to buy 3.5 million Torchmark shares leaving around $225 million of cash and other liquids assets available for the remainder of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of liquid assets as a parent company.
Regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries.
We plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but it is sufficient for our company in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
As of December 31 2014 our consolidated RBC was 327%.
We do not anticipate any significant changes to our targeted RBC levels in 2015.
As we have discussed on prior calls S&amp;P changed their view last year after the treatment of certain intercompany preferred stock and requested additional capital be contributed to our insurance subsidiaries to retain our credit ratings.
We have reviewed various alternatives available to us and are scheduled to meet with S&amp;P in August or September where we will discuss potential solutions and courses of actions with them.
Based on our analysis to-date should we decide add additional capital we believe we will be able to address the additional capital needs without significantly impacting our free cash flow available for buyback.
One option available is for Torchmark to issue additional hybrid securities treated as debt for financial reporting purposes but equity for S&amp;P capital purposes.
If we were to issue such securities in an amount sufficient to meet the entire shortfall we estimate that the overall impact on EPS would be less than $0.01 per share.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
For 2015 we expect our net operating income to be within a range of $4.18 per share to $4.28 per share a 5% increase over 2014 at the midpoint.
Those are our comments.
We will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And we will take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Hi.
First I just a question on the response claims and you get the amount and the impact on the benefits ratio.
Seems like the amount on an annual basis should be about $0.06 a year so if you could confirm whether that is right.
And then should we expect that will continue into next year and at least for the next few years? And then secondly on the agent count at American Income has dropped from beginning to ending obviously on an average basis it was up maybe you can discuss what drove the decline and what your expectations are for agent count growth at American Income? Jimmy on the direct response the $0.06 impact for 2015 is right I mean until we see as far as the additional impact overall.
For 2015 as we had indicated we see the policy obligations being in that 50% to 51% range and as far as kind of trying to see out -- at our best estimate at this point of time for where that might go in 2016 we see that overall the policy obligation for Direct Response maybe being in that 51% to 52% range and bringing the Direct Response margin maybe down in that 20% to 21%.
So that is really just based on the data that we have available to us today and where we see that going.
Okay.
And on the agent count American income? And our moderator's line has disconnected I'll have to dial back out to them.
If you could please standby I'll dial out to our moderator at this time.
[Operator Instructions].
And we still have Mr.
Bhullar on from JPMorgan.
And just to be clear on the Direct Response business it's not that you have seen a sudden spike in claims but it's more you would assume that claims get better and the margins would be better because of the user prescription drug information and in reality they just have not been right? Jimmy that is exactly correct.
And this is -- it is mostly related to the decline this quarter was related to one discreet block as opposed to a spread across the block? Are those policies as opposed to spread across various subsidiaries or other parts of business? Yes largely that is correct I mean there is a little fluctuation we had some seasonal fluctuation but largely the case.
And those are like the fluctuations are just normal volatility in claims from quarter-to-quarter right? That is correct.
Okay thanks.
And then lastly just on the agent count drop at American Income it did grew on an average basis but it was down from the end of the previous quarter.
So maybe just if you could discuss what drove that and your expectations growth at American Income? Jimmy this is Larry.
Meeting agent count is less important to the average agent count there's some fluctuations every quarter just on the last day it depends on the terminations that comes through.
If you look at the overall results for the last year we see we have some agent growth.
Now we still expect to meet our producing agent count projection of 6 800 to 7 000 agents for 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Erik Bass with Citi.
Hi thank you.
I just had one follow up first on Direct Response.
Since you now identified two blocks of issue or the policies from 2000 through 2007 and then the 2011 through 2013 and so I guess was there any difference in kind of your underwriting or pricing assumptions from kind of that 2007 through 2011 period that gives you comfort that you won’t see any higher incidence of claims there? And I guess the same question would be for 2014 2015.
Were there any changes that you made to your unit pricing or to your assumptions for the most recent years? Yes Erik.
With respect to 2011 to 2013 really the change that had taken place again was a lowering of the overall mortality assumptions because we had started using that prescription database.
And that assumption did will carry through through the 2015 issue years those are not -- 2014 and 2015 are not out of the contestability phase yet.
So we really haven’t seen any claims emerging on those.
And of course we are tweaking a little bit over time how we use the Rx but clearly we will be taking a look at how we are using the Rx why we are not getting any benefits that we had anticipated and be making the appropriate decisions with respect to 2016.
So we do see that being contained within the 2011 through 2015 block.
But it really is different than the 2000 through 2007 and some of the higher mortality that we were seeing in the 2000 that earlier block has been built in to -- that portion has been built in the overall assumptions in those later years.
Got it.
So there was a change in your assumptions kind of in the 2008 period? Really yes overall with regard to some of those earlier years.
Got it.
Okay.
So you don’t expect kind of the issues you are seeing in the 2007 -- or the 2000 through 2007 block to continue into later a few years? That is correct.
Okay thank you.
And then just one question you gave the target you had for the year-end the agent count for American Income.
Would you mind providing any update for Liberty National as well as Family Heritage given the strength that you have seen in recruiting them in past couple of quarters there? Sure.
We expect the year-end agent count in Liberty National to be in a range of 1 630 to 1 660 agents.
At Family Heritage we expect the year-end agents count to be in a range of 975 to 1 000 agents.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
I want to go back to direct response business if I could and couple of questions there.
One is on the previous call I think you talked about the early 2000 vintages being the ones that showed claims activity now you are talking about 2007.
So does that suggest that you have seen elevated claims activity now really moves a little further to the newer vintages as well beyond the 2011 through 2013 issue that we discussed? Yes.
John we have talked on the previous calls we did see some of the elevated claim activity in the 2000 and 2007.
But as we now have the full claim experience here for the first and second quarters of 2015 we're able to go back.
We basically have been able to close out the 2014 calendar year and all the claims associated and paid within that year.
We can see the higher claims than what we had anticipated.
Again with -- in that 2011 that third policy year that first year that comes out of the contestability period we can now identify that some of the higher claims that we were incurring really related to the 2011 and then now we're seeing some of the same patterns taking place with respect to the 2012 accident year as well.
Really at the end of last year we just didn't have enough claim experience to see and make the jump that it was going to continue for some of the later policy years.
Some of the indications that we have now with the new -- with updated client experience we see that trend probably continuing.
Okay.
I got -- just to clarify.
On the last call you talked about the early 2000 vintages I think you'd also said that those are vintages they were over a decade old.
Now you're talking about 2000 to 2007.
So the 2005 '06 '07 years seem to now quite fall into that category? Now it's like -- well when I talked about the 2000 through 2007 issue years still that is the same vintage that we're referring to on the prior calls.
Okay.
That part hasn't changed.
We really haven't changed our outlook right now with respect to additional claims on that particular block.
Okay.
And had the 2011 to 2013 vintage data not developed the way it had will you still have expected the benefits for this year to fall and within the 48.5% to 49% range which you've previously offered? Yes been really close to that 49%.
Okay.
And maybe one last question on this direct response business.
How quickly do you expect the 2000 to 2007 and the 2011 to 2013 vintages to run off? What's the rate of the decay here? Yeah.
I'm not sure.
I mean the obviously run off was over really long period of time.
Yes.
But the -- what we kind of see right now is that probably the peak of the adverse experience of all it expected probably going to -- would be and maybe in like 2017 and that as those years the 2015 consolidates its contestability period.
So we kind of see that has been the low point as far as direct response to margins is concerned and then being able to improve after that.
Okay.
And I'm sorry.
Maybe I sink in one last one.
In direct response we're also seeing a bit of a slowdown in sales.
Is that just distributable to repricing of that business now that mortality data has come in a little higher than expected? I think if you recall the second quarter of 2014 was the largest projection quarter in the history of direct response.
So actually we're pleased with the slight increase this quarter.
We still expect an increase in sales in direct response this year in the range of 4% to 6%.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Yeah.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Just a little bit more on the direct response.
First the -- Frank the earlier years 2000 to 2007 did that perform in-line with your current expectations for the quarter? For the quarter we saw just little bit higher seasonal fluctuation that we really do anticipate coming back to the normal trend over the course of the year.
Our expectation for the full-year is still in that kind of in that range we talked about last time probably increasing the overall obligation percentage by 0.4% 0.5%.
Okay.
Great.
And so we really haven't changed our overall outlook for that.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the newer stuff could you explain the importance of the contestability period ending in this calculation or how you see things? And why is that so important? Sure.
Well for the first two years after issue we have the ability to context any claims that come in during that period of time.
All right.
But after the end of that two year contestability period the claims are now become non-contestable unless we can prove certain things with respect to that application.
But -- so your -- so if you look at the history of this product that third year tends to be the one of the highest claim years and then it tends to trend down after that.
So that's when you start seeing those really early claims.
Okay.
Well -- okay.
Is that just timing of is that -- okay.
Anyway -- all right.
Yes it is just the timing of that.
So 2011 through -- pardon me? Yes it is just the time of that.
It's just that that particular product seems to behave.
Okay.
So 2011 you would have seen the losses occur in 2014? Would you have seen losses beginning to occur in 2012 or 2013? I guess I'm a little bit confused about why you're confident that those are going to be bad as well and going forward.
Sure.
So for the 2011 issue year we have seen a very little clean activity prior to really at the end of 2013 and then end of 2014.
And so 2014 is when you really start seeing the claims activity for that third policy year not really developing.
And then of course you're starting to see some of that claim activity for the fourth policy year as well.
For the 2015 -- so during 2014 you see some higher claims but again you're kind of limited to just very small piece of information on one particular policy year.
Late in 2014 now in 2015 you're starting to see some of those claims for that third policy year for the policies that were issued in 2012 and we're starting to see some of those same patterns.
And then of course 2013 they're just starting to enter that third issue year -- third year after the issue year.
And so you're barely starting to see some of those but it's getting some of that additional data with respect to 2012 some very early returns on 2013 where you're starting to see some consistency that we can rely upon.
Steven I would add that Frank has mentioned 2011.
We didn’t start to use the Rx information until late in 2011.
So really 2012 is the first year we really had enough issues where can start see and experience in late 2014.
We go next to Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets.
I'm going to stick with that topic because after Schwartz asked those questions I guess I'm not clear.
This type of direct coverage would you describe this as final needs-type coverage? And the reason I ask is that it seems like you're having mortality events relatively quickly.
Is that the right way to characterize this type of coverage? In general yes.
And those tend to be very quick.
And so when you all said that you were exiting the contestability period what is it that you have been successful on disputing in that period and does that have anything to do with the Rx data? I'm sorry Randy on that you kind of cut out on that little bit.
I didn't quite catch that whole question.
In the contestability period what is it that you were contesting and does that have anything to do with the Rx data or is it more typical contestability type stuff? It's more normal contestability type stuff.
So obviously you're looking at how the answers and what information they've provided to you and whether or not there is any misrepresentations with respect to the application.
The Rx data we just simply use to extend that we have authorization from them we can verify whether or not some of that information on the application is in fact -- Some of the blame that Rx is not in the contestability period but it's a time issue.
You have a better underwriting picture and so you either decline some of the business you otherwise would have issued where some of that is rated as substandard business.
So it's not really just a contestability period it's evaluating the risk if you're underwriting for the life insurance.
Really not -- We didn't see that much difference during the contestable periods for these claims.
And remember the issue here is not that the mortality is worse and what we experience in the past what has happened as we've experienced about the same mortality as we did before we started using the prescription drug as an agent.
But the problem was we assumed that we were going to have better mortality in our reserves and that’s why you're seeing the increase in the policy obligations.
That’s an overall.
What we need to look at is the Rx in certain segment that we think probably is benefiting and others is not and we will have to evaluate what it does and determine how we use that going forward.
But I do want to emphasize we're not seeing worse mortality than we saw before.
We're seeing about the same.
The problem is we thought the Rx would lead us to better mortality.
Understood.
I just wanted to clarify some of those concepts.
And then if I can sneak in another one just going over to the investment yield.
So Gary I think you said that the midpoint of your EPS guidance assumption is for a new money rate of 500 basis points in the back half.
Did I get that number right the 500 basis points? Yes.
That’s -- That is correct.
And so when we discussed the same topic last quarter I think that's similar assumption was 475 basis points.
So I guess you're 25 basis points higher and is that because the 10-year even though it's only up like 15 basis points year-to-date it's about 25 basis points higher than where we were three months ago? Is that the right way to think of it? And the follow-up there is -- are you actually seeing 500 now when you're investing today? First to answer your question it is because of the uptick in Treasury rates.
We look at more 30 years instead of 10 year because of how long we invest.
And also to answer your questions what we've invested so far in this quarter were about 5%.
And is that still A or is that in the BBB area? I believe that’s in the A- BBB+ area.
Right.
BBB+.
Okay.
BBB+.
I'm going to ask one more.
Then on this notching proposal within NAIC level 1 and 2 securities potentially.
Do you have any thoughts for us on that how that could affect your RBC ratio or how the industry might potentially deal with more categories within NAIC level 1 and 2 from an RBC ratio perspective? The industry as a whole and the industry associations are working pretty closely with the NAIC trying to limit the number of categories from where additional factors might come in play.
So that's clearly a work in progress.
I think I said before we kind of see that as a 2017 or '18 event.
And that’s the latest information that we have that's still the best estimates.
From an impact our preliminary are using some of the information they have out there that is of course subject to change it could mean maybe a 20 basis points to 25 basis points change reduction in the overall RBC percentage.
What we don't know is for sure is then how do the rating agencies and how the users of the RBC data how do they react to that and so that what we'll have to do from that perspective.
But it is not affecting your thought.
I mean you're buying BBB+ because that’s where you see good economic value and also liability matching this change has no impact on that right? That’s exactly right.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Hughes of SunTrust.
Seen any changes in pricing or your underwriting criteria that are going to impact sales in Direct Response business? Mark we've done that in past.
We always adjust our segmentation modeling the nationalized sales and profits so that’s a constant process as to market for Direct Response.
Right.
Is that to say given what you've seen in terms of the claims activity that you will be raising prices or tightening up your underwriting? It depends on the segment that you are talking about.
We wouldn't necessarily raise all prices but certain segments as we see differences not just claims but response rates inquires.
We adjust our pricing and we adjust our modeling and our marketing to fit that data that comes back to us.
Right.
And this would normally be circumstances that would lead to adjustments that might constrain sales going forward? It might constrain sales on certain segment but I don't think it would be fair to say it would constrain sales overall.
You just reemphasize your marketing.
Got you.
And then in the third quarter of last year the med supp sales within Direct Response you had a very big quarter.
Is there any reason to think that might recur again this year? I know you've said you've got tough comparisons or you wouldn't necessarily trend line that but 3Q was very big last year.
Is any of that renewing? How should we think about that? Probably renewing.
In terms of new cases we think we will see a decline in new cases since we had an unusual number of new cases last year in the group.
In the individual we're predicting 15% to 20% growth for the entire year in our med supp sales.
Okay.
And then a final question.
The impact of the Medicare Part D I think you said it was a $8 million drag how will that play out in 2016? Will it be an equivalent drag or will the drag lessen up? Yes Mark at this time the best estimates are that we will end up with a receivable as of the end of the 2015 approximately the same as where we were at the end of 2014.
So I would think the drag would be somewhere in the same area.
So as we think about 2016 you think it would be similar? Correct.
We go next to Eric Berg of RBC.
Thanks very much.
Two questions related to Direct Response.
Do I have it right when I say that with respect to the 2000 to 2007 block that in contrast to the 2011 to 2013 block in which you are not experiencing higher than expected mortality you're just not getting the improvement that you had anticipated in the earlier block you are experiencing higher than expected mortality? That is correct.
Is that right? That's right.
And then what your -- it seems to me when an insurance company has higher than expected number of death claims or larger claims it could be for any of a number of reasons.
As you have studied these claims from these seven issuance years what's your initial or best sense of what is at the root of the problem? As we've really taken a look at those claims yes interestingly enough there really isn't one particular area that seems to be sticking out if you will as far as where those additional claims might be coming from.
The only thing that that tends to may be a little bit higher than what would be normal average would be some deficit as relating to respiratory illnesses.
Other than that that there really is not when we looked at how we segmented in different areas really it's very little that sticks out.
My second question relates to this pharmacy the Rx thing.
I'm just really scratching my head here on the following sense.
I would think that if you took two individuals of identical health non smokers same height same weight same body mass let's just assume they have identical health and you tell me that person A is taking seven different medications for heart and may be cancer and blood pressure and what have you and the other person is prescription-free drug-free that there's no information content in that at all? There's no value in knowing that person A is taking many medications? I just find that -- I'm just scratching my head like you guys are.
What do you think is going on here? What's your initial sense of what's going on here? It is a good question because that is -- when we have and when we've been using the Rx we would exactly why we assume that we would be having the better mortality that is why we're taking a look at that now to really understand why we're not seeing the benefits that we really saw.
Is it just in the type of data that we're getting? Is it just simply how we're using that data? Obviously on some we do have some more rejects applications that are rejected using the Rx that we would have otherwise.
So it's helped in that standpoint.
But that's really the question we're trying to get an answer to so we can make the appropriate decisions.
And you don't even have an initial hunch as to what's going on here why this didn't help you? Not yet at this point in time.
Just a quick question on follow-up to Mark Hughes.
If the receivable stays constant on the recovery from the government wouldn't it be a neutral next year on investment income? At some point this reverses.
But if you reverse it once you got up and put new stuff up it seems like it would be a neutral to investment income.
Bob you're right it would be neutral.
It would be about the same drag next years as this year.
Okay.
And at some point it would reverse right? Do you have a sense on what year that would be? It should reverse by the end of 2016.
And then of course depending upon what happens with 2016 claims activity and the receivables and whatever is generating new in 2016.
Right.
So if the drag stays the same but it's not an incremental drag so investment income should move up with cash flow and yields and not be impacted in 2016 and then it becomes an equivalent positive in 2017 to the negative it's been in this year? Yes that's correct.
And when I had answered it I was look at just a drag not an incremental drag but it's correct it would be the similar drag in '16 as it is in '15 but then presuming that the receivables actually get to go down or by the end of 2016 you would see the real incremental benefit in '17.
Okay.
Buyback.
Last year's annual report I think you said you were getting near but hadn't reached intrinsic value where buyback was the first best use.
But you sort of sent a warning that if the stock kept running last year it was up 4% it's up even with the correction today 10%.
Are we anywhere near the point where the warning has to be sent out that dividends might be a use or is buyback still below intrinsic value? Bob we still believe the buyback is below the intrinsic value and we are trading at the higher even when we wrote the annual report we are trading at higher multiple but we still believe it's -- we haven't reached intrinsic value.
And so we continue to buy because still the return we're getting is in excess of our cost of capital by a good margin and also the return we're getting exceeds return that we're -- we could get on alternative uses.
So we will continue on.
As we've said before if we think the price get to at or above the intrinsic value then we'll have to reassess at that point.
Frank's speech was the same as it's been the last 36 quarters so it seemed like that was the case.
But appreciate it.
We'll go next to Ryan Krueger of KBW.
I guess first one I wanted to follow-up on the prescription drug data.
I guess just to be clear do you only use that when you price Direct Response business or did you also use that in that some of your other businesses when you were underwriting those? Yes it has been used in just very limited situations with respect to some older age issuances in the other agencies.
And again I will stress its very limited circumstances and we had not reduced any of our mortality assumptions for the use of Rx in those other agencies.
So it's just simply been just an added tool in the underwriting process there.
So it's really isolated to Direct Response at this point for the most part is that correct? That's correct.
Okay.
And then just follow-up to Randy's question on the RBC changes.
I know at this -- do you -- I know it's early on still but it seems like the rating agencies tend to use higher capital charges than the RBC formula already.
So I mean is it your best guess that even though RBC ratios will change and go down for the industry that it won't necessarily change the way that you and others are managing capital? I think that is a very real possibility and you're right S&amp;P has their own capital factors that they use and which are higher and would really be more similar to what the NAIC is looking to move towards and then Moody's and A.M.
Best how they would look at it.
But we would anticipate that or at least it would be a possibility that no changes at all would be necessary.
We'll go next to Colin Devine of Jefferies.
Thank you.
Just to come back one more thing on this Rx issue.
It seems to me if I'm understanding what you're saying when you went to that you assumed mortality would improve.
And so I would presume that had some impact on your pricing decisions.
Now that it hasn't it would suggest I guess that you're under priced.
How much are you thinking right now you may need to raise prices excuse me if the Rx data just isn't giving you what you need? Well Colin it's too early to answer that.
Just one thing we will be looking at it.
But it's not necessarily we would have to raise prices it may mean there are certain segments certain age group certain -- Circulations.
Circulations that we would have to raise price or we determine that we don't want to sell in those again.
So it's more -- we have to a do a little bit more work on that before we can decide whether we raise prices or whether we discontinue in certain segments.
Okay.
And then a second question.
In looking at the premium growth this quarter not only was it I think the strongest we've seen in over 10 years on the life side but also on the supplemental side.
And has some of your strategy changed there because of growing this up beyond Family Heritage and really how much longer do you think you can keep this growth rate going? Because I think you've probably got about the strongest organic growth rate in the industry today.
Well as far as on the life side we have in places seen the higher premium growth and we think we can continue that and our confidence there is that where American Income where we had the largest amount of business we’re going pretty in there around at 9% range and we expect to continue growth there.
Also direct response the second largest seller -- premium block that we have but we're going excess of 5% there.
So we feel confident that we reached this level and we can at least stay at this 9% level.
On the health side we feel the same here because growth prospects I think we want to keep the premium growth on the health side and that's important because you can't needle back just a couple of years ago we had declining health premiums as we had exited some health blocks in the past.
So we feel positive about the future as far as growing the premiums.
What about the general agency this quarter on the supplemental side? It seems to be surprisingly strong.
Well as Larry mentioned we've good growth from our individual mezz up sales and then really we had good growth last year we're having stronger growth this year.
So that’s contributing to the -- that other helpline.
Okay and then the final one.
Again this quarter further improvement in persistency particularly thinking on the renewal year.
How much stronger is that now than what you're pricing for? And what does this say really about your underlying core earnings growth rate since I would that is a significant benefit? Colin I'm not sure I can answer how that's different from what we're repricing.
I know we've seen improvements over lot of products.
I just quantify here on the call.
Okay.
Perhaps we can follow-up afterwards.
Thank you very much.
We go next to Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
First question is to do let's want to make sure I've this right did you say 9% of total in-force direct response block was the Rx related underwriting was that the right quantification? That's correct.
It was the premium received on the '11<sup> </sup>to '13 years actually.
Just to clarify.
Okay.
That's premium received on the '11 to '13 years as a percent of that total of the entire Direct Response in force block or just of those years? Of the total direct response block.
Got you.
Okay.
So how do we think about of your new sales this year so far how much are Rx using that Rx data? Can you quantify that? Is it 50%? Is it 100% of Direct Response sales that are relying upon this data? Yes it's around 50%.
Okay.
50% of 2015 sales would be going out using the Rx.
Okay.
And at this point -- so it's possible you are going to be repricing 50% of your sales for Direct Response or is that not the right way to think about it? Is it somehow isolated that the problematic parts are not the entirety of the 50%? How do we think about that? Well that's right.
It's like what Gary and Larry had mentioned earlier is that we still have to finish the work to determine exactly which segments that we're really not getting the benefit from and where that all kind of lies within that 50%.
And there are -- some portion of that may be -- we are getting some at least some incremental benefit from but that's what -- that's where the work really have to -- so it won't be that big.
Okay.
So it's going to be some fraction of that 50% of total sales? And if I -- This is Larry.
You've to be careful too that the Rx in 2011 was less sophisticated than the Rx in later years.
As you develop models to get information you have better combinations of drugs you look at as an indicator of health history.
So I don't think you're going to assume that 2011 and 2012 be the same experience as '13 and '14.
We have to let some of these facts develop.
And we're really in the process.
And so -- in fact the '13 and '14 years may be difference experience over the '11 and '12 years were.
Understood.
And just to put this in context when you look at the block if you will that you have identified thus far that you deem to be under priced are we talking about a block that's actually losing money? Is it just subpar returns? Can you provide some context around that? Yes Tom we're definitely not losing money.
We're pressuring the margins.
Overall margins are being pressured.
We're -- we've been in the 23% 25% underwriting margin for Direct Response over the last few years.
This year is going to be closer to 21%.
And it's early and our preliminary estimates of how this plays out we don't see that profit margin going below 18% 19% at [indiscernible].
So even if that all develops on that basis we still are going to have 18% to 19% profit margin.
We're not in a position of losing money at all.
It's just that margin is not as high as it has been in the past.
So the lowering of that range it could be higher than the 18% or 19%.
Yes that's the low ends 18% and 19%.
Well they could be -- that's a worst so say be somewhere between that and the 21%.
And then over time as we price so we'll get better.
Okay.
And then my last question on that is when you look back to when you began to use the Rx data and pricing on that basis was it done in response to the market becoming a lot more competitive for you? Had it become more price elastic than it was historically? Like what was the driver of starting to use this and has that overall part of your business become more price sensitive? If you look at 2011 we saw this as a tool that we could use to better quantify and better look at the risk we're going to underwrite.
And the difference is we've assumed that it had a more positive impact than it actually did so that was a mistake.
So it's just the actual experience is not as profitable as we anticipated.
That affects your marketing as you go out in those lower performing deciles.
So I don't think this is a huge surprise it's just we -- the business is profitable.
We just anticipated a higher profit level for the 2011 year than what's actually developed.
And Tom we've always looked at the response because we haven't -- in Direct Response we just can't from the call standpoint and the time standpoint do a great deal of underwriting.
That's just been the history of Direct Response.
What we thought when this came out use of prescription drug as Larry mentioned we thought this is a low cost way of getting better information and then to better underwrite and if we could better underwrite then we could venture into may be segments that we hadn't before.
So the whole process there was just -- it wasn't from a competitive standpoint to meet competitors.
It was more a standpoint to give us a better underwriting that we had before.
We'll go next to John Nadel of Piper Jaffrey.
Hey thanks for extending the call for a moment for a quick question or two.
Just following up a little bit on Tom's question if we think about Direct Response overall maybe it was a low to mid-20s margin and maybe it's got downside for one or two particular years down to the very high teens.
So if we call it about a five-point swing in that margin can you translate that to ROE of the business? We don't really calculate an ROE on the business.
Yes our return on investment might be lower but we really -- that only really has -- haven't really calculated that I don't have an answer for that.
Now and John do you mean for that business as a whole or just the overall ROE for the impact that would have on Torchmark's overall ROE.
Well I guess either way you would be able to -- if you could give us some color on that whether it's for the Direct Response life business or whether it's the overall impact to Torchmark.
Obviously for the overall impact to Torchmark it would be considerably less.
Yes I mean that's what you probably looking at a half a percent or something that effect there I would guess.
But I agree with Gary as far as looking at the business.
We don't really look at it in that in fact or don't have that any way right now.
Okay.
And then if I think -- following up on the question about the percentage of sales that have been prescription-backed if you will in the underwriting process so I think you mentioned about 50% of sales but maybe it's some smaller portion of that that's actually become a little bit problematic here.
If your decision were we just don't want to play -- we don't want to underwrite in this particular segment looking out to 2016 let's say in terms of your pricing decisions you don't feel like you can get enough price or you won't be able to write any business at the price you need anyway and so you just decide this particular piece of the business you're just not going to go after any more how -- if I think about the dollar amount of sales that that's contributed in 2015 or in 2014 how do we think about the headwind that that causes for Direct Response sales? I would say that that's information that we will be able to provide better guidance on in the next call as we kind of really get to get our arms around may be which segments that might have.
The total premium using Rx in 2015 probably around $30 million but again as we’ve said there is not that $30 million is going to go away and you're going to just change your strategy and rethink about how which segments you market into and what your circulations going to be so it will be a change.
But I really couldn’t say that we're expecting that to go away.
All right.
Understood well we can state here and as you guys sort of hone the data.
I guess the last question for you and I realized this is maybe a little nitpicky but turning to health and American income I know it’s mid-teens maybe mid to upper teens percentage of premium in health segment but or maybe percentage of underwriting income but it looks like the margin there was pressured by a couple of points this quarter.
Is it anything more than just maybe some seasonality or normal volatility there? Yes.
I think seasonality for because on the year-to-date basis the margin there is about the same as it was last year and year think that’s more of just quarterly fluctuations in the claims.
In second quarter of 2014 around 30% tax rate we tend to be a little bit low than 32% this year on little bit on the high side just what the quarterly fluctuation I think we’re estimating around 31% for the year-to-date.
Loss ratio.
Yes on the loss.
We’ll go next to Seth Weiss of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes hi good afternoon.
Thanks for allowing me to sneak one in.
I just want to understand the duration of the business that gone in direct response just get a sense of what the pressure could be in the long-term here and I think it comes back to the contestability period.
Is it really the third year that you will or won’t see the spike in claims so we’re talking about a three year delay in the business that was written.
So if we look out three years from today 2018 or so or 2019 this will all be corrected or is it a longer duration that direct response business could be pressured in terms of suboptimal returns? Yes.
We really see the higher incidence in claims really third and then little bit less in the fourth and it tends to trail from there.
Now ultimately it will carry on for quite some time.
I do think when 2014 and 2015 blocks come in overall that probably gets up to where that is maybe 19% of our total direct response premium and then of course the premium from there will start to go down and as you put new business on the books it will become less and less have less much of an impact overall.
So we really see the impact of this having for the next couple of years and then kind of bubbling if there should bubble in 2017 and then really become less of an issue after that.
Okay.
And then also just a level set I think earlier in the call you talked about 51% to 52% benefit ratio in direct response as maybe a run rate for next year as '14 and '15 business comes in there could be some rest to that number am I understanding that right? It could be you do have the you have a base that is in there already with respect to the higher claims for 2012 and 2013 that we’re anticipating in there.
So it does include though an estimate for the impact of 2014 and 2015 is included in that.
Still do not have that much impact on 2015 because we’re revising our first 2015 issues though we are not reflecting the expected improved mortality from the Rx.
So it’s really more of an issue for 2014 but not necessarily 2015 because remember we were this is pass up is the fact that the claims the mortality is higher than what we had anticipated in the reserves.
And so… We will go next to Colin Devine of Jefferies.
Thank you.
One quick follow-up.
Is it fair to say what direct response that you got the most flexibility compared to your other channels if you just tie into exit the segment because you just can’t get the returns you want or to take more aggressive pricing actions? Yes.
We have much more flexibility there that we would on the agency side.
We don’t have infrastructure of our agents that would be shocked about changes in products premiums you just don’t have that direct response.
That’s maybe one of the things that we’ve benefited over the years the flexibility we have.
Great thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Majors I’d like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Those are our comments and we will talk to you again next quarter.
This concludes today’s presentation.
Thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to Torchmark's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors VP Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Joining the call today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officer; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2014 10-K and any subsequent forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike.
And good morning everyone.
Net operating income for the third quarter was $136 million or $1.08 per share a per share increase of 9% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $145 million or $1.15 per share a 15% increase on a per share basis.
With fixed maturities that amortized cost our return on equity as of September 30 was 14.7% and our book value per share was $29.53 a 7% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share was $34.21 a decline of 1% from a year ago.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 5.5% to $519 million while life underwriting margin was $144 million up 3.5% from year ago.
Growth in underwriting margin lagged premium growth due to direct response clients which were higher than the prior year but in line with expectations.
Net life sales increased 11% to $101 million.
On the health side premium revenue grew 9% to $229 million and health underwriting margin grew 2% to $50 million.
Health sales decreased 31% to $33 million due to a large direct response group that was added in the third quarter of last year.
Individual health sales were $28 million up 11%.
Administrative expenses were $49 million for the quarter up 8% from a year ago and in line with our expectations.
The primary reasons for the increase in administrative expenses are higher information technology costs and pension costs.
As a percentage of premium administrative expenses were 5.9% compared to 5.7% a year ago.
For the full year we anticipate that administrative expenses will be up around 7% to 8% and around 5.9% of premium.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations work Thank you Gary.
I will now go over the results for each company.
At American Income life premiums were up 8% to $209 million and life underwriting margin was up 9% to $66 million.
Net life sales were $50 million up 16% due primarily to increased agent counts and productivity.
The average agent count for the third quarter was 6 604 up 8% over a year ago but approximately the same as the second quarter.
The producing agent count at the end of the third quarter was 6 658.
We expect 14% to 15% life sales growth for the full year 2015 and 6% to 12% for 2016.
In our direct response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 7% to $186 million.
Life underwriting margin declined 2% to $40 million.
Net life sales were up 8% to $38 million.
We expect 4% to 5% life sales growth for the full year 2015 and relatively flat sales for 2016.
At Liberty National life premiums were $68 million and life underwriting margin was $18 million both approximately the same as the year-ago quarter.
Net life sales grew 1% to $9 million and net health sales increased 10% to $5 million.
The average producing agent count for the third quarter was 1 586 up 2% from a year ago and up 2% from the second quarter.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 602.
Life net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 5% to 6% for the full year 2015 and 5% to 10% for 2016.
Health net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 4% to 6% for the full year 2015 and 3% to 8% for 2016.
At Family Heritage health premiums increased 8% to $56 million while health underwriting margin increased 1% to $11 million.
Health net sales were up 4% to $13 million.
The average producing agent count for the third quarter was 905 up 19% from a year ago but down 6% from the second quarter.
The producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 854.
We expect health sales growth to be in a range from 6% to 7% for the full year 2015 and 5% to 10% for 2016.
At United American General Agency health premiums increased 19% to $84 million.
Net health sales increased from $10 million to $11 million.
Individual sales grew 24% to $7 million and group sales increased 6% to $4 million.
For the full-year 2015 we expect growth in individual Medicare supplement sales to be around 30% to 35%.
As we discussed last quarter we expect lower group sales in 2015 due to the unusual number of large group cases we acquired in 2014.
Premium revenue from Medicare Part D declined 14% to $77 million while the underwriting margin increased from $5 million to $9 million.
The increase in underwriting margin was primarily due to an increase in excess rebates from drug manufacturers.
We expect Part D premiums of $300 million to $310 million for the full year 2015 and $190 million to $230 million for 2016.
We expect margin as a percentage of premium to be approximately 5% to 10% for 2016.
I will now turn the call back to Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less required interest on policy liabilities and debt was $54 million compared to $55 million in the third quarter of 2014.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income increased 2%.
We have discussed on previous calls the effect of Part D on excess investment income.
Excess investment income was negatively impacted by Part D to the extent of $2 million in the third quarter of 2015.
For the full year 2015 we expect excess investment income to decline by about 1% to 2%.
However on a per share basis we should see an increase of about 2% to 3%.
At the mid-point of our 2015 guidance we're expecting a drag on excess investment income from Part D of approximately $8 million.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets were $13.7 billion including $13.2 billion of fixed maturities and amortized costs.
At the fixed maturities $12.6 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus and below investment grade bonds are $568 million similar to the $570 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds in fixed maturities is 4.3% compared to 4.5% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.6 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains of fixed maturities is 15%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A-minus the same as a year ago.
In addition we have not unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $914 million approximately $81 million less than at the end of the second quarter.
To complete the investment portfolio discussion I'd like to address our $1.5 billion of fixed maturities in the energy sector.
We believe the risk of realizing any losses in the foreseeable future is minimal for the following reasons.
96% of our energy holdings are investment grade.
At the end of the third quarter our energy portfolio had a net unrealized loss of only $23 million.
Also less than 8% of our energy holdings are in the oil field service and drilling sector.
And we have reviewed our energy holdings and concluded that while we expect to see some downgrades we believe that the companies we've invested in can withstand low oil prices for an extended duration.
Regarding investment yield in the third quarter we invested $188 million of investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial sector.
We invested at an average yield of 5.1% an average rating of BBB-plus and an average life of 26 years.
For the entire portfolio the third quarter yield was 5.81% down 8 basis points from the 5.89% yield in the third quarter of 2014.
At September 30 the portfolio yield was approximately 5.82%.
The midpoint of our current guidance for 2015 assumes a new money yield of 5% for the last quarter of the year.
We're encouraged by the potential for higher interest rates.
As discussed previously on analyst calls rising new money rates will have a positive impact on operating income by driving up excess investment income.
We're not concerned about potential unrealized losses that are interest rate driven reflected on the balance sheet since we would not expect to convert them to realized losses.
We have the intent and more importantly the ability to hold our investments to maturity.
However if rates don't rise a continued low interest rate environment will impact our income statement but not the balance sheet.
Since we primarily sell noninterest protection products accounted for under FAS 60 we don't see a reasonable scenario that would require us to write off the AC or to put up additional GAAP reserves due to interest rate fluctuations.
In addition we do not foresee a negative impact on our statutory balance sheet.
While we would benefit from higher interest rates Torchmark would continue to earn substantial excess investment income in an extended lower interest rate environment.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thanks Gary.
First I would like to make a few comments regarding our share repurchases and capital position.
In the third quarter we spent $99.3 million to buy 1.7 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $59.40.
So far in September we have used $20.6 million to purchase 362 000 shares.
For the full year through today we have spent $296 million of Parent company cash to acquire 5.2 million shares at an average price of $56.52.
The Parent started the year with liquid assets of $57 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the Parent will generate additional free cash flow during the remainder of 2015.
Free cash flow results primarily from the dividends received by the Parent from the subsidiary less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
We expect free cash flow in 2015 to be in the range of $355 million to $360 million.
Thus including the $57 million available from assets on hand at the beginning of the year we currently expect to have around $417 million of cash and liquid assets available to the Parent during the year.
As previously noted to date we have used $296 million of this cash to buy 5.2 million Torchmark shares leaving around $121 million of cash and other liquid assets available for the remainder of the year.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million of $60 million of liquid assets at the Parent company.
For 2016 we preliminarily estimate that the free cash flow available to the Parent will be in the range of $350 million to $360 million.
Regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries we plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current rating.
For the last two years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but it's sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liabilities and our ratings.
As of December 31 2014 our consolidated RBC was 327%.
We do not anticipate any significant changes to our targeted RBC levels in 2015.
On our last call we discussed the status of Standard &amp; Poor's review of our current ratings as they had previously placed us on negative watch.
Since our last call we met with S&amp;P to review our operations and financial outlook.
Earlier this month they formally revised their outlook from negative to stable and confirmed our AA-minus financial strength rating at our insurance subsidiaries and Torchmark Corporation's senior debt A credit rating.
In order to maintain adequate capital levels for S&amp;P we will likely issue hybrid securities that are treated as equity for S&amp;P capital purposes but debt for financial reporting purposes to refinance the $250 million of senior debt maturing in June 2016 and possibly to redeem a portion of affiliated investments held at the insurance company.
The total financing needed will not impact our share buyback program and is expected to have an immaterial impact on Torchmark's earnings p r-share.
Now a few comments to provide an update on our direct response and Medicare Part D operations.
As we discussed on our last call growth in life underwriting income is lagging behind the growth in premium in the quarter primarily due to higher policy obligations in our direct response operations.
As previously indicated the higher policy obligations are largely due to higher than originally expected claims related to policies issued in calendar years 2000 through 2007 and in 2011 through 2015.
We also indicated that policy obligations for the full year should be in the range of 50% to 51% of premium up from around 48% in 2014.
We currently anticipate that the direct response policy obligations will be at the high end of that range resulting in an expected underwriting margin for 2015 of around 21%.
Looking forward anticipate that the policy obligations will increase to around 52% in 2016 and that the underwriting margin will be around 20%.
With respect to our Part D operations income in the third quarter of 2015 was $9 million or around 12% of premium.
And Larry noted in his comments this increase in the quarter was primarily attributable to an improved outlook regarding rebates from drug manufacturers that are paid to us under our PBM contract with CVS.
We've previously estimated that the margin on our Part D operations would be in the range of 6% to 8%.
We're increasing that estimate for the full-year 2015 to a range of 8% to 11% based on a higher expected level of rebates relating to the 2015 plan year.
During the third quarter CMS placed United American and First United American on enrollment sanction.
During this time we're not permitted to enroll new individuals or groups into our Part D program.
We're permitted to reenroll existing individual members into our 2016 plan as well as enroll new members of groups that were policyholders at the time the sanction was initiated.
We have submitted a remediation plan that has been accepted by CMS and we're proceeding with this plan in an effort to have the sanction lifted as soon as possible.
The impact of the sanction on our 2015 membership and premium has been immaterial.
However we do anticipate a reduction in our 2016 Part D membership in premium income as a result of not being able to enroll new members.
As Larry previously indicated we anticipate that our total premium income for 2016 will be in the range of $190 million to $230 million and that our underwriting margin will be in the range of 5% to 10% of premium.
As for guidance for 2015 we expect our net operating income to be in the range of $4.20 to $4.26 per share a 5% increase over 2014 at the mid-point.
For 2016 we preliminarily estimate that our net operating income per share will be in the range of $4.25 to $4.55 per share a 4% increase at the mid-point of the guidance.
This increase is lower than anticipated due to the headwinds created by our Part D operations and the higher policy obligations in our direct response operations previously discussed.
Absent these headwinds our year-over-year growth in 2016 would be between 7% and 8%.
The negative impacts of both of these issues are expected to be less after 2016.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
Those are our comments.
We will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And we will now start with our first question from Randy Binner of FBR &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple one is on the recruiting efforts and specifically the overall exclusive agent count but even looking at it by segment.
It's maybe flat to down just a bit on a linked quarter basis so looking at it relative to the second quarter 2015.
Yet at the same time I think I would characterize the sales guide for 2016 as good.
Just wondering if there was anything lumpy or unusual in the producing agent counts in the quarter and if we should read much into that sequential slowdown in the producing agent count in the third quarter.
Our sales guidance incorporates a growth in the agent count in each of the exclusive agencies for 2016.
So I don't see a slowdown in recruiting.
What I see is cautionary recruiting.
It does change a little bit from quarter to quarter Randy.
As an example at Family Heritage they had very strong first and second quarter recruiting.
It slowed in the third quarter and as a result we had to drop the agent count.
But we expect in 2016 to see growth in the agent count at Family Heritage as well as the other agencies.
Is that like a one-for-one relationship percentage-wise meaning if you see sales up a certain amount would we expect roughly a similar growth in producing agent counts? Sales usually lag agent growth because new agents are not as productive as existing agents.
But eventually you see a correlation that's fairly close between agent growth and sales growth.
And then just one on the investments Gary mentioned that you got 510 basis points roughly on new money investment grade yields.
I think that's like 40 basis points higher than what you quoted for investment grade last quarter on similar duration.
So a little color there.
You said you focused on industrials risk spreads were wider despite the move in the tenure.
Is that what you saw? And any color you can provide there would be helpful.
Randy we did invest heavily in the industrials but it wasn't so much a focusing on industrials.
It's more in relation to the bonds that were available that met our other criteria.
So we were pleased with the yield we got.
The 5.1% -- it was really 5.05%.
From where we stand today we think fourth quarter will be around 5% from what people are saying about rates we're looking for a modest increase in 2016.
We're expecting to invest about 5% in the fourth quarter we would expect in 2016 for that to be about 5.25% slightly higher.
Would that presume a move higher in the tenure or what's underlying that the 5.25%? It's more of a move in the 30-year because again as long as we're investing that's the more appropriate to look at.
What we see is looking at the consensus out there we're looking at about a 10 basis point increase per quarter in 2016.
And that would get us to 5.40% by the end of the year but on average for the year it would be 5.25%.
Okay.
So you're baking in basically the forward curve if you will into the guide on that.
Yes.
We'll see what happens because their year's been pretty flat.
But that's helpful to understand as part of the guide.
That's why I mentioned earlier if we don't have higher interest rates we'll still be able to generate substantial investment income.
But again from what we see and people we've talked to the consensus is that we will see a slight increase in rates.
Your next question will come from the line of Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Just on direct response can you talk about what's pushing the margin outlook to the lower end of your target? And do you expect 2016 to be the trough margin level? Yes Erik I think 2016 will be as we indicated lower than overall on a margin than what we anticipate here for 2015 around 20%.
We think the trough is probably in 2017 or 2018.
I think we indicated on the last call that we thought it should bottom out around somewhere in that 18% to 20% margin range.
We still think that's the case and we probably see that maybe in 2018.
And then maybe squaring with your comments around guidance was that you would expect a return to a more normal growth rate in 2017.
But we're still going to see some of the headwind on the direct response margins continue post 2016.
So should we think about getting back to an 8% type growth rate or will it take longer to get there if some of these issues continue? We do anticipate just a slight decline in that overall margin on the direct response.
We do think it will be slowing down from what we're seeing in 2016 so it will have less of an impact in 2017 and 2018.
Very preliminarily we do anticipate that we can get out there to a normal growth range after 2016.
And just final question I think you're guiding to direct response life sales being flat for next year.
I'm just curious as to the drivers there given relatively strong recent sales.
The driver there is that the increase in claims is shifting our focus away from those segments in the markets in order to meet our profit objectives.
So our marketing models reside to maximize our production of new business.
At the same time we want to meet our profit objectives that's why we're predicting flat sales for 2016.
So just more targeted sales restricting the breadth is slowing the growth rate.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Your next question will come from the line of Seth Weiss of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
On 2015 guidance I'm a little surprised that the mid-point wasn't raised given the better Part D performance this quarter and the raised guidance that's implied for the fourth quarter.
Is there any other negative other than the direct response coming into the low end of what you described? Is there any other negative to the rest of the business or is this just maybe some conservatism on the lower end of guidance? Yes Seth it's largely driven by just a slightly higher outlook as far as the direct response coming at the higher end of that range.
And then just a real little bit the foreign exchange on AILs continuing to be at little bit more of a drag that what we had anticipated earlier on.
So that's impacting it just a little bit.
Just a lower outlook on investment income just slightly.
Some of the calls that we've had occurred a little earlier in the year than what we had anticipated.
So just a few little things like that on the margins that are just tending to offset the improvement on the Part D.
And then on Part D just a couple quick ones.
The $192 million to $230 million of expected premiums how much visibility do you have into this? And I assume this assumes no new enrollment given the CMS sanctions.
That's correct.
It would assume only that we would be exiting sanctions at some point in time during 2016 so then we would pick up some marginal increases there.
But it's really working with our consultants just a best estimate on looking at the existing members that we would be able to retain and be able to get re-enrolled.
Okay.
But there's not tremendous visibility that could really fluctuate that number.
I just want to understand it to now because we have into next year.
There is really no real visibility that we have into it at this point in time.
And if I could just sneak one quick one on excess investment income.
Can you give a sense of what your expectations are what's built into guidance for growth of excess investment income for 2016? We're looking for at the midpoint of our guidance for 2016 we're expecting excess investment income to grow in the 1% to 2% range.
On a per share basis it would be more around the 6% range.
Your next question will come from the line of Ryan Krueger of KBW.
Please go ahead.
I have a couple follow-up questions first on Part B.
I think you mentioned that your remediation was accepted.
Would you expect to start growing again in 2017 as you can reenroll? Yes.
I think the expectation would be that going forward we would just have to see what the membership ultimately ends up being in 2016 the outlook that we have It's really difficult to see what would actually happen going forward.
However we really don't see it getting less in 2017.
And then just a couple specifics on the 2016 guidance.
Can you just talk about what you're expecting for administrative expense growth as well as growth in health underwriting margins? As far as the administrative expenses we're looking at growth there in the 4% to 5% range.
As I mentioned earlier the ratio expenses to premiums for this year for third quarter was 5.9% and for the year it'll probably end up at that 5.9% range.
And for next year we're looking at it being in the 5.9% to 6% of premium and that translates into a 4% to 5% increase in premium and then on the health side at the mid-point of our guidance we're looking for the health underwriting margins to be up around 1%.
Your next question will come from the line of John Nadel of Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
Just a quick one on Medicare Part D.
Should we be thinking about given the way the rebate has come through here the nine months of 2015 as the way to annualize the earnings level for 2015 from Medicare Part D? Is that the right way to think about it that the loss ratio in the third quarter is lower because it's making up for bringing through that rebate from the first two quarters of the year? That is correct.
You have a partial inclusion of some of the excess rebate in the third quarter as well.
If the expectations come in as consistent with what our current thinking is then you'd see a little bit of a pickup of that in the fourth quarter as well.
Again overall we would anticipate our full-year margins to be somewhere in that 8% to 11% range.
And then as we look out to 2016 and even a little bit further beyond that just thinking about the margin pressure until you find that trough a couple years out for direct response any reason why that downward pressure at direct response should have anything more than a nominal impact on your free cash flow generation? No.
I don't think so.
You're having just a little bit of a higher claims of course that we're having there with the direct response.
But as time moves on that will have less and less of an impact overall in the free cash flow.
So I really don't think it will have significant impact going forward.
Your next question will come from the line of Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
I had a few questions first on the Part D margins the benefit of rebates.
Can you discuss the rebates that you're getting? What period are they related to? Are they on business that you sold earlier this year or is it some of it related to business for 2014? And it seems like you're assuming that the benefit of rebates will continue partially into 2016 as well.
And given the opaque nature of the whole process what gives you confidence that that will be the case? And I have a couple other questions as well.
Jimmy the rebates do relate to our 2015 plan year so they really relate to claims that were paid earlier this year.
And there's about a nine-month lag that we have in getting the rebates back from our PBM that they're able to pass along to us from the drug manufacturers.
So while we had an estimate of what those might be given our new contract with CVS this year as we got closer and we're starting to get our cash payments in it really turned out to be higher than what we had originally anticipated.
We anticipate those higher rebates to continue on.
And the overall estimate if you will of those rebates that we expect to receive on the 2015 claims that will all be built into the 2015.
It won't impact 2016 margins except to the extent that there's any kind of a true up between our estimates and the actual cash payments received.
Okay.
And then on the guidance for 2016 if I think about just the free cash flow and buybacks buybacks alone should drive about 5% growth in your EPS.
It seems like the lower half of the guidance especially the low end of guidance even if you build in the headwinds from low interest rates and weaker direct response margin the low end of guidance seems ultraconservative.
But what are some of the assumptions that get you to the $4.25 number in terms of margin investment income and other things? Because that just seems like too low of a number.
At this point in time given that it's very preliminary and I think we talked about this on this call this time last year -- the way we tend to look at it when we look at that spread is if interest rates work against us and we have high claims again within various of our lines of business in direct response and American Income you tend to look at if we end up with very low growth on the underwriting side and investment income tends to work against us.
And you get all those type of things working altogether and that frames the boundary of that lower end.
And then last thing just on your expectations for sales growth in the American income business I think you mentioned low double digits but is that mostly driven by growth in the agent count or are you assuming productivity improvements there as well.
We're assuming both.
We're going to have a lower agent growth in 2016 we believe at American Income than 2015.
We think for 2016 agent count should be between 7200 to 7500 agents.
That would be an increase of 8% at the mid-point.
We also think we'll see some improvements in productivity with respect to the percentage of agents submitting the average premium.
It's awfully early Jimmy.
I think that's our best guidance at this point in time.
Your next question will come from the line of Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Just a few as well.
Larry I don't know if this was intentional or maybe I missed it but did you have a UA sales target for 2006? Did not give a target for 2016.
For individual Medicare supplement sales for 2016 we do expect 10% to 15% growth.
The group sales are very hard to predict because it tends to be so lumpy.
So I would take that there would not be an increase in group Medicare supplement sales in 2016.
And then am I right in my notes at least I have that you should be receiving a big cash payment from the federal government for losses incurred I believe it was last year? That's right.
Yes we expect to receive that payment here in November.
And Frank how big might that be? The total payment will be around $150 million to $200 million somewhere in that range.
$150 million to $200 million.
Okay thank you.
And then my last one again for Frank on the share repurchase or your guidance for free cash flow does that incorporate some estimate for downgrades in the energy portfolio because that will require more capital I think? In taking a look at that obviously we built in some different scenarios with respect to what we think might happen in our statutory income and statutory capital needs.
Whether or not we end up having some downgrade if we end up having downgrades in 2016 it really won't impact our statutory earnings until 2016 which could impact free cash flow in 2017.
But we don't really see that type of activity hitting in 2015 yet that would impact us there.
Okay you lost me because downgrades don't necessarily -- well I guess they could.
They could.
If they're bad enough.
I'm thinking more along the lines of RBC for each grade.
Got you.
Does that have an effect? It could potentially.
If it's significant enough it's possible that we would have to retain a little bit of additional capital in 2016 that is correct to cover that.
Your next question will come from the line of Bob Glasspiegel of Janney.
Please go ahead.
I'm going to follow-up on Ryan and Steven's questions.
On Ryan's Medicare Part D question this is a question I've asked several times over the last several years and you've been right to give the answers you've given to date -- which is why are you staying in that business given the volatility of earnings and the headaches of dealing with Washington administrators et cetera? Is this an attractive business for you long term? I think you said the premiums won't decline in 2017.
This remains a minor part of our business.
When we think about Part D the Part D changes on a yearly basis.
So we monitor that business every year to determine how to best move forward.
That will be the case in 2017 and we will see what changes are coming through in Medicare Part D and determine how we move forward with that business.
I don't know for certainty if we retain that business it will be a small part of our overall business.
But the returns are still worth the aggravation? The current returns are but again I can't say what the returns are going to be in 2017 2018.
That's too far out to predict what the returns will be on Part D.
Bob it's a decision we have to make each year as we go forward.
As returns are still favorable lower than what they've been in the past still favorable but we will address it each year.
On the statutory earnings your 2015 GAAP earnings are flat versus 2014 on an operating basis.
The per share grows because of the share count reduction.
But your free cash flow looks like it's down about $5 million to $10 million versus last year.
Is there anything driving the stat results of this year in your outlook versus last year that swings it to a negative? Yes there's a couple of headwinds that you see on statutory and one of them is really primarily the high growth that we have in 2015.
Remember on a statutory basis all the acquisition costs are required to be written off whereas we get to capitalize them for GAAP.
You do have somewhat of a drain and a challenge if you will on your statutory earnings in those year of high growth.
I think that's largely driving a little bit of that difference between really seeing flat statutory earnings to maybe even a slight decline.
We haven't completed our third quarter statutory financials yet so it's a little bit early to see exactly where that's going to come in.
Makes sense.
And credits been a non-event in both years year over year? Yes.
A non-event.
Your next question will come from the line of Eric Berg of RBC.
Please go ahead.
At Globe could you describe what's going on underneath the numbers? And by that I mean can you describe the claims dynamic that will result in a lower margin next year than this year and a lower margin still in 2017? What's happening there in terms of customers for which there was an underwriting issue coming into the mix? I'm trying to understand the dynamic.
Yes Eric I think what you're really seeing is a continuation of what we experienced here in 2015 where the claims are just higher than expected.
We had built in certain mortality assumptions with respect to our overall pricing.
And where the mortality and the actual claims aren't necessarily higher than what we have historically experienced they're just higher than we expected.
For GAAP reporting purposes as those claims are actually coming in and they're coming in greater than what we had thought it hits the bottom line at that point in time.
Through the use of the RX and largely it's here on the 2011 through 2015 block but as the claims start to really materialize on those particular blocks that's where we had thought that we were going to obtain some greater benefits than we really were from using the RX in this underwriting process.
More specifically is the idea that you saw certain I'm just trying to understand on the ground so to speak what's happening here and by this I mean is the idea that you saw individuals taking certain prescribed medications whether it was medications for cholesterol or hypertension or what have you and you thought that these medications would produce a reduced level of mortality and that reduced level of mortality wasn't as great as you had anticipated? That's correct.
Eric we started this process in 2011.
In 2011 we used outside consultants because it really hadn't been used in our segment of the business.
Since 2011 we've attained a lot more data and we're seeing the claims mature from 2011 and we've made adjustments.
Since then we will continue to make adjustments on a go forward basis.
I think the impact of the RX from 2011 to 2014 will be contained and we won't see that impact going forward in new issue years.
And just one question regarding Medicare Part D as I understand what you said earlier in the conversation the receipt of cash from the government in particular from rebates on a lag basis nine-month basis was the major factor behind the surprise here if I understand what you said.
If I have that right if the receipt of cash on a lag basis produces a surprise then how can you be confident that your rebate estimates for next year will be close to the mark? You mean trying to estimate the overall underwriting margins for 2016? Yes precisely.
That's my question.
Again the rebates that we're seeing here in 2015 it's the first year that we had our contract with CVS brand-new PBM contract.
The mechanisms that are being used to generate those rebates were new.
So for 2016 we will just have that little bit more of experience.
We will have the full year of 2015 as we're putting together those estimates for the amount of rebates in 2016.
Your next question will come from the line of Mark Hughes of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
You had talked about the choppiness in the large group sales it's less predictable.
Is that market still as attractive as it was? Has that gotten more competitive? Less competitive? It's not more or less competitive.
The issue is that you have large groups that you quote on every year and you're just uncertain as to how many of those large groups you're going to be successful in obtaining as new business.
So as we've said we use the term lumpy it is lumpy because in some years we have more large groups than others.
You can also lose a large group and your premiums would go down for the year.
But you haven't noticed any change in trend and competition or your yield or your expected margins on that business? No.
And then the Part D the remediation effort does that have any impact on profitability or is there anything that you do that will have a sustained impact on your cost structure or profit expectations? It impacts the enrollment so obviously you have the impact on the overall profitability there.
And other than just having a little higher costs that we're incurring in order to get to work through all the remediation other than that it doesn't really have an impact on if you will the nature of the profitability of the individual enrollees.
Your next question will come from the line of Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Just a question on Part D.
When do you expect to get an answer or have visibility on whether the sanctions are going to be removed? Yes.
This is Brian Mitchell.
We got our corrective action plan filed and approved almost immediately in fact a little bit of head of time.
With regard to the time limits that CMS had set for us we're working through the corrective action plan.
And I feel like we're in good stead with where we're in that process currently.
Based on the complaints that were levied and the basis for the sanctions I would anticipate and am hopeful that we will be out of sanctions sometime in 2016.
Looking at the length of time that most companies who have been under sanction stay it's been a wide range.
It's been as small I think as five months and as long as 21 or 22 months.
And I think we're on track for 2016.
Okay.
So let's roll forward to 2016 and if the sanction is lifted when would you be able from a time line standpoint to start again with new enrollees? Would it be end of 2016? The people who are turning age 65 would be able to enroll throughout the year.
There is an open enrollment period that is at the end of the year.
I think it runs from mid-October to mid to early December.
So that would be the bulk of the enrollees of course.
And we would be able to -- part of the sanctions involved cessation of marketing and we would be able to I would assume that would be lifted and we would be able to begin marketing again in 2016.
And have you looked at others who have been sanctioned and whether or not that would prevent you or limit your revenue growth opportunities? Is there any stigma associated with that when we think about recovering revenue into 2017 and 2018? Or do you believe that you'd be able to significantly grow revenue from we'll call it $200 million-ish type level that you're predicting for 2016? Tom I would say that that would all depend upon the nature of whatever bid that we would put in in June of 2016.
So whether or not revenue would grow or any of that effect would just totally depend upon what type of a strategy we would employ with respect to how we're structuring our overall premium levels and big structure.
I think from the word that we've received as far as coming out of sanctions the fact that you were in sanction and coming out of sanction really would have little or no impact on your ability to market to and attract new enrollees going forward.
Okay.
And my last question is just on direct response.
You had indicated that you're limiting the targeted group of clients but not actually repricing it.
Or are you also repricing whether that's features or the actual premium that's being charged? There is a repricing that takes place in terms of as you model the business.
I think the impact we're going to see is in inquiries.
There's three segments of our business.
We will continue to see growth in our electronic inquiries.
And I think we will see inquiries [indiscernible] decline as to continue to eliminate circulation of programs that do not meet our profit objectives.
So it would be in that set of the business I think we will see the biggest impact.
Your next question will come from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Just want to follow-up on a few of the questions that were asked.
First the $150 million to $200 million that you expect to receive from the government in 2016 that check comes in November right? Correct.
So there shouldn't be any real impact on excess investment income from that in 2016.
It would be more of a 2017 driver? That would be received here in November of this year.
So that's built into our expectation of excess investment income in 2016.
Okay.
I'm a little surprised then to see that even excluding the direct response and Part D businesses or the headwinds you see there that earnings would grow only by 8%-ish year over year given that you are getting this nice boost in excess investment income.
Are there other headwinds that you're anticipating? Keep in mind and maybe to finish that story on the Part D there is the payment that we're getting here that relates to the 2014 business.
As of the end of the year in 2015 we do anticipate that we will still have about $150 million of receivable from the government.
That won't get collected until November of 2016 that's really where your point was.
So we're going to be receiving a payment here in this next month.
That's why currently we have over $300 million of receivables from the government.
We anticipate that by the end of 2015 again that that level be down to around $150 million.
And then in 2016 we have attempted to restructure the flow-throughs.
So we do expect less of a drain on 2016 but there'll still be some negative outflows even occurring throughout 2016.
That's why when you look at some of that growth in 2016 on the excess investment income there does continue to be a drag from Part D on that that we really don't see getting lifted in probably 2017.
In direct response I think last quarter you'd said that you were still studying the results of the 2011 through 2015 policies that were underwritten using the prescription drug database and at the time you couldn't really point to any distinct pockets or demographics that were driving the higher than expected claims.
Have you since learned of any discernible trends or patterns? We have seen some different trends and patterns.
It really gets into how we're using our rules engines.
It's really at a level of detail that we don't want to discuss on the call.
But it is information that we're then taking looking and using to see how do we modify how we're using that and getting into what Larry's indicated how we think about the marketing and the different segments that we'll continue to market in.
But you do have now a game plan set out? A much better idea of how to go about using that.
Okay.
And final question on the deficiencies leading to the CMS actions I think in the prepared comments you said that the CMS accepted the remediation plan and it addresses its concerns.
But my understanding is that the CMS sanctions came after several years of deficiencies that they had pointed to.
And I was just curious were there corrective action plans that were submitted over those past three years that were trying to address these weaknesses? Yes.
Not in a formal approval stance but we've worked with CMS over the years to address the issues that came up in the 2012 audit.
They really related to grievance issues which essentially is customer service and coverage determination which pertains to claims.
We have made significant improvement over the years in those areas and felt like the audit on itself that happened at the end of the spring was a good quality audit.
It was just that due to the fact that we had some repeat violations from that earlier audit CMS felt like enrollment sanction which is an intermediate sanction was appropriate at the time.
Okay.
So you feel like the current plan that's in place will address some of those outstanding issues? I believe it will address all of the outstanding issues that were raised in the sanction letter.
Yes.
We're required to address each one and then have approval by CMS as to how our plan would progress.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand it back over to Mr.
Majors for closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Those are our comments and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your line.
And have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Torchmark Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And joining the call today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell our General Counsel.
Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only.
Accordingly please refer to our 2014 10-K and any subsequent forms 10-Q on file with the SEC.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter net operating income from all operations was $131 million or $1.05 per share a per share increase of 5% from a year ago.
During the fourth quarter management determined that the Part D business met the criteria to be held for sale and is classified as discontinued operations.
Net operating income from continuing operations which excludes Part D was $131 million or $1.05 per share up 6% on a per share basis from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $133 million or $1.07 per share a 5% decline on a per share basis.
The decline was due primarily to the fact that we had $11 million of tax driven realized losses in the fourth quarter of this year compared to a gain of $5 million in the year-ago quarter.
With fixed maturities that amortized cost our return on equity as of December 31 was 14.5% and our book value per share was $30.09 an 8% increase from a year ago.
On a GAAP reported basis with fixed maturities at market value book value per share was $32.71 a decline of 10% from a year ago.
In our life insurance operations premium revenue grew 5.5% to $521 million while life underwriting margins was $145 million up 6.3% from a year ago.
Net life sales increased 2% to $99 million.
On the health side premium revenue grew 5% to $225 million and health underwriting margin was up $51 million approximately the same as a year ago.
Health sales declined 17% to $16 million due to the decline in group sales.
Individual health sales were $38 million up 20%.
Administrative expenses were $48 million for the quarter up 9% from a year ago and in line with our expectations.
As a percentage of premium from continuing operations administrative expenses were 6.3% compared to 6.1% a year ago.
The primary reasons for the increase in administrative expenses are higher information technology and pension costs.
For the full-year administrative expenses were $186 million or 6.2% of premium.
In 2016 we expect administrative expenses to grow approximately 5% and to remain around 6.2% of premium.
I will now turn the call over to Larry Hutchison for his comments on the marketing operations.
Thank you Gary.
I'll now go over the results for each company.
At American Income life premiums were up 8% to $213 million and life underwriting margin was up 10% to $69 million.
Net life sales were $50 million up 9% due primarily to increased agent productivity.
The average agent count for the fourth quarter was 6 590 up 4% over a year ago but approximately the same as the third quarter.
The producing agent count at the end of the fourth quarter was 6 552.
We expect the producing agent count to be in a range of 6 600 to 6 800 at the end of 2016.
Life sales for the full-year 2015 grew 15%.
We expect 5% to 7% life sales growth in 2016.
In our direct response operation at Globe Life life premiums were up 7% to $185 million.
Life underwriting margin declined 2% to $37 million.
Net life sales were down 3% to $37 million.
Life sales for the full-year of 2015 grew 4%.
We expect life sales to be flat or down slightly in 2016.
At Liberty National life premiums were $67 million approximately the same as the year ago quarter.
Life underwriting margin was $19 million up 24%.
Net life sales decreased 5% to $9 million.
Net health sales decreased 4% to $5 million.
The average producing agent count for the fourth quarter was 1 539 down 2% from a year ago and down 3% from the third quarter.
The producing agent count at Liberty National ended the quarter at 1 478.
We expect the producing agent count to be in a range of 1 550 to 1 625 at the end of 2016.
Life net sales for the full-year of 2015 grew 4%.
Life net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 4% to 7% for the full-year 2016.
Health net sales for the full-year 2015 grew 4%.
Health net sales growth is expected to be within a range of 2% to 4% in 2016.
At Family Heritage health premiums increased 8% to $57 million.
Health underwriting margin increased 2% to $11 million.
Health net sales were up 2% to $12 million.
The average producing agent count for the fourth quarter was 877 up 12% from a year ago but down 3% from the third quarter.
The producing agent count at the end of the quarter was 911.
We expect the producing agent count to be in a range of 975 to 1 000 at the end of 2016.
Health sales for the full-year 2015 grew 7%.
We expect health sales growth to be in a range of 5% to 9% for the full-year 2016.
At United American General Agency health premiums increased 12% to $90 million.
Net health sales declined from $51 million to $38 million.
Individual sales grew 49% to $18 million.
Our group sales declined 47% to $21 million.
Individual Medicare supplement sales for the full-year 2015 grew 36%.
For the full-year 2016 we expect growth in Individual Medicare supplement sales to be around 8% to 10%.
I will now turn the call back to Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes discussing our investment operations.
First excess investment income.
Excess investment income which we define as net investment income less acquired interest on policy liabilities and debt was $54 million compared to $55 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
On a per share basis reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program excess investment income was flat.
As discussed on previous calls the Part D segment has had a negative impact on excess investment income due to negative cash flows that occurred during the year including the long delay in receiving reimbursements from CMS for excess claims paid by the company.
The impact of the lost investment income from the delayed receipt of reimbursements in reflected in income from continuing operations rather than discontinuing operations in accordance with applicable accounting rules.
In 2015 Part D had a negative impact on excess investment income of approximately $8 million.
In 2016 we expect excess investment income to grow by about 1% to 3%.
However on per share basis we should see the increase of about 6% to 8%.
At the mid-point of our 2016 guidance we're expecting a drag on excess investment income from Part D of approximately $8 million to $9 million.
Now regarding the investment portfolio invested assets were $13.8 billion including $13.3 billion of fixed maturities and amortized costs.
Of the fixed maturities $12.6 billion are investment grade with an average rating of A-minus and below investment grade bonds are $640 million compared to $561 million a year ago.
The percentage of below investment grade bonds of fixed maturities is 4.8% compared to 4.4% a year ago.
With a portfolio leverage of 3.6 times the percentage of below investment grade bonds to equity excluding net unrealized gains of fixed maturities is 17%.
Overall the total portfolio is rated A-minus same as a year ago.
In addition we have net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity portfolio of $506 million approximately $408 million less than at the end of the third quarter.
To complete the investment portfolio discussion I'd like to address our $1.6 billion of fixed maturities in the energy sector.
As a result of spreads widening in the fourth quarter the net unrealized loss of our energy portfolio increased by $142 million to a total of $165 million at December 31.
However we believe the risk of realizing any losses in the foreseeable future is minimal for the following reasons.
$1.5 billion or 94% of our energy holdings are investment grade.
Only a $143 million or 9% of our energy holdings are in the oil field service and drilling sector.
Approximately 70% of these bonds are investment grade.
Also based on the consensus of expert views our investment department believes that oil is more likely to increase to $45 a barrel or $50 a barrel during the next 12 to 24 months then to remain at current levels.
We believe the companies in our portfolio can continue to operate for a very long time with oil prices at $45 a barrel to $50 a barrel.
Even if oil remains around $30 a barrel for the next 12 to 24 months we would not expect to have any defaults during that period.
Finally the companies we have invested in have a variety of options that they can utilize to avoid default including but not limited to reducing distributions to partners drawing on lines of credit and reducing exploration activities.
Now we do believe that there could be further downgrades which could pressure our RBC ratio.
However that doesn't mean we would have to suspend or materially impact our stock buyback program.
Frank will address this in more detail when he discusses capital.
Now as to investment yield in the fourth quarter we invested $341 million in investment grade fixed maturities primarily in the industrial sector.
We invested at an average yield of 5% an average rating of A minus and an average life of 26 years.
For the entire portfolio the fourth quarter yield was 5.81% down eight basis points from the 5.89% yield in the fourth quarter of 2014.
At December 31 the portfolio yield was approximately 5.83%.
The mid-point of our current guidance for 2016 assumes increasing money yields throughout the year averaging 5.25% for the full-year.
We continue to hope for higher interest rates.
As discussed on previous analyst calls rising new money rates will have a positive impact on operating income by driving up excess investment income.
We're not concerned about potential unrealized losses that are interest rate driven reflected on the balance sheet since we do not expect to convert them to realized losses.
We have the intent and more important the ability to hold our investments to maturity.
However if rates don't rise a continued low interest rate environment will impact our income statement but not the balance sheet.
Since we primarily sell non-interest sensitive protected products accounted for under FAS 60 we don't see a reasonable scenario that would require us to write-off DAC or to put up additional GAAP reserves due to interest rate fluctuations.
In addition we do not foresee a negative impact on our statutory balance sheet.
While we would benefit from higher interest rates Torchmark would continue to earn substantial excess divestment income in an extended low interest rate environment.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thanks Gary.
First I wanted to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchases and capital position.
In the fourth quarter we spent $83 million to buy 1.4 million Torchmark shares at an average price of $58.68.
For the full year we spent $359 million of parent company cash to acquire 6.3 million shares at an average price of $56.99.
The parent ended the year with liquid assets of $46 million.
In addition to these liquid assets the parent will generate additional free cash flow during the remainder of 2016.
Free cash flow resulted primarily from the dividends received by the parent from the subsidiaries less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Torchmark shareholders.
While our 2015 statutory earnings have not yet been finalized we expect free cash flow in 2016 to be in the range of $320 million to $330 million.
Thus including the $46 million available from assets on hand at the beginning of the year we currently expect to have $366 million to $376 million of cash and liquid assets available to the parent during the year.
This level of free cash flow in 2016 is lower than recent years due to lower distributable statutory earnings at our subsidiaries in 2015.
As we've discussed on prior calls a key driver of the lower earnings is higher commission and acquisition expenses associated with the higher levels of sales growth we have experienced in 2014 and 2015 coupled with lower growth rates in investment income due to lower new money yields and adverse Part D cash flows.
Another significant driver of the lower earnings is higher Federal income tax expense in 2015 as compared to 2014.
At this time we anticipate that statutory earnings in 2016 will be approximately the same as 201 as the profits from recent sales starts to emerge the incremental impact of new sales lessens and the growth in investment income improves.
As noted before we will use our cash as efficiently as possible.
If market conditions are favorable we expect that share repurchases will continue to be a primary use of those funds.
We also expect to retain approximately $50 million to $60 million of assets at the parent company absent the need to utilize any of these funds to support our insurance company operations.
Now regarding RBC at our insurance subsidiaries.
We currently plan to maintain our capital at the level necessary to retain our current ratings.
For the last three years that level has been around an NAIC RBC ratio of 325% on a consolidated basis.
This ratio is lower than some peer companies but is sufficient for our companies in light of our consistent statutory earnings the relatively lower risk of our policy liability and our ratings.
Although we had not finalized our 2015 statutory financial statements we expect that the RBC percentage at December 31 2015 will be around the 325% consolidated target.
We do not anticipate any changes our targeted RBC levels in 2016.
Our investment department has reviewed multiple scenarios of downgrades within our fixed maturity holdings including those in the energy sector.
To put their findings into context as a rule of thumb downgrades of around $100 million in statutory book value would reduce our RBC ratio by approximately two percentage points and require around $9 million of additional capital to retain a 325% RBC level.
Using this rule of thumb and to the extent additional downgrades do occur in 2016 we are comfortable that we would be able to fund the additional capital requirements with available assets on hand and other sources of liquidity available to Torchmark without having to suspend or reduce the amount available for buyback.
Now a few comments to provide an update on our Medicare Part D operations.
Management has committed to a plan to sell the Part D business and expect it to be sold before the end of the year.
We have met the criteria to account for the business as held for sale and the results of the Part D operations will be reflected within discontinued operations in our financial statements.
As we have previously said we originally decided to participate in the Medicare Part D program back in 2006 because most of the underwriting risk was covered by the government and we believe that would complement our Medicare supplement business.
Over the years the Part D business has been good for Torchmark as it is provided over $259 million of underwriting margin since 2006.
However this business has been changing rapidly over the past few years and the earnings had become much more volatile.
Increased competition industry consolidation and preferred networks have reduced overall margins and made it more difficult for smaller players to compete in this market.
While we are still generating profits from the Part D operations those profits have been shrinking in recent years due to higher drug cost and increased administrative and compliance cost.
We believe this trend will likely continue and perhaps could even turn into significant losses in the future as drug costs especially those on specialty drugs continue to escalate.
In addition we have already seen regulatory changes that have shifted costs from the government to carriers and it appears likely that more cost shifting is to come.
Overall the risks and the administrative and compliance costs associated with the business are much greater than they once were and the business now demands an increasingly disproportionate amount of time and focus given its level of earnings.
Looking forward we prefer to focus our attention on our core life insurance businesses and our other lines of health business that produce more predictable stable margins.
We previously indicated that we view this business opportunistically and then we would review it on a yearly basis.
While the Part D business has been a good opportunity to this point we no longer believe it is a business that makes sense for Torchmark going forward and therefore it is the right time to exit the business.
We have included on our website a final operating summary for the discontinued operations.
For the year we earn $10.8 million or $0.09 per share after tax.
This amount was lower than we had anticipated on the last call due to higher than expected claims in the fourth quarter as a result of higher drug cost.
To the extent we were to hold the business for the full-year 2016; we estimate that our after-tax earnings would be in the range of $5 million to $9 million.
As noted on our previous calls the profits from the Part D business are further reduced by lost investment income that results from having to finance substantial cash outflows during the year including amounts paid upfront on behalf of the government that won't get repaid to us until the following year.
These outflows are generally represented by the significant receivable balances that are included in the assets held for sale line of our consolidated balance sheet.
The opportunity cost of not being able to timely invest the receivable balances is included in our continuing operations as required by the applicable accounting rules.
However to reflect what management considers to be a better reflection of earnings from the Part D operations we have included on our website a schedule showing the pro forma income from discontinued operation and includes an estimate of the after-tax cost of the foregone investment income.
As we're in the midst of discussions with multiple parties regarding a purchase we're unable to discuss the timing potential value or other details of the sale.
However we do anticipate that the assets held for sale on our balance sheet will be fully recovered and do not believe the consummation of the sale will have a material impact on our income from continuing operations.
Any such impact on earnings is included in the range of earnings guidance provided.
Now with respect to our guidance for 2016 on our last call we indicated a preliminary range of $4.25 to $4.55 for our 2016 net operating earnings per share with a mid-point of $4.40.
Excluding the effect of the discontinued Part D operations the mid-point would have been $4.35.
We now estimate that our earnings from continued operations will be in the range of $4.28 to $4.48 a 6.1% growth at the mid-point over our 2015 earnings from continued operations.
A schedule providing prior year earnings per share for continued operations only and our revised 2016 earnings per share guidance has been placed on our website.
Those are my comments.
I will now turn the call back to Larry.
Thank you Frank.
Those are our comments; we will now open the call up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we'll take our first question today from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for taking my call.
I wanted to start with the last point on the revised guidance the $0.03 increase in the midpoint.
Looking at the different parts of the guidance that the granularity that you offer seems like you're expecting sales to actually come down a bit from your prior guidance expenses may be going up a little bit headcounts may be a little weaker.
So where is the positive offset coming from? Where are you expecting to out-earn your previous guidance? Yes I think in looking at the increase at the mid-point we really have an improved outlook on life and underwriting margins underwriting income overall and there is a slight margin improvement at Liberty National given the favorable claims experience that we had in Q4.
And then really the high -- really favorable sales that we had at American Income is well just a better expectation with respect to some of our premium at direct response really impact the 2016 guidance.
You need to remember that the some of the reduced sales guidance with respect to 2016 really don't impact the 2016 premiums as much as they will premiums looking out past that.
Okay that's helpful.
And then you had talked about expecting new money yields going up a bit over the course of 2016 or at least that being one of your underlying assumptions.
What's that based on there? Is it spread widening? Is it opportunities you see in the market? It's a little bit of both it's we are expecting and this is from our investment department gave us all reports coming in with a consensus.
We expect the treasury rate to although it's declined so far in January we expect it to gradually increase during the year.
Spreads we're pretty much expecting to stay where they were towards the end of 2015.
Okay.
And then one quick final question.
Is there any capital impact from the sale of the Part D business? Yes there will be eventually some of the capital freed up.
We do have to carry some RBC on that business.
We would estimate we would probably carry we don't have the final RBC for 2015 done yet but with respect to that business that we would expect it to be somewhere may be in that $60 million to $70 million of capital ultimately we hold on that business.
We would see that capital being freed up over the course of 2016 and then partially and then more fully over the course of 2017.
So the expectation would be then that it would be deployed like in 2017/2018? Yes and though it's a possibility that we would be able to deploy that capital or would be able to distribute some of that excess capital but we would really have to be able to see what's the capital situation looks like at that point in time but probably it really wouldn't be fully available if you roll into that 2017/2018 timeframe.
And we'll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
So first question just on available resources for buybacks in 2016.
I think Frank; you mentioned the cash available with the liquidity on hand will be $366 million to $376 million.
And if I assume like roughly $70 million for dividends and also put in the cushion that you're going to hold a $50 million to $60 million it implies buybacks of about $250 million in 2016.
Is that a fair assumption? No I think our as I indicated I think the free cash flow that was available for buyback that we see for 2016 should be in that range of $320 million to $330 million.
Okay got it.
Because I was taking out the dividend and the numbers you gave were post dividend? Yes that's correct.
And then as we think about from 2016 to 2017 given I think you mentioned in your remarks that sub-dividends will be somewhat stable or flat that number shouldn't change that much in 2017 right? That's correct.
And the proceeds from the sale whenever that happens are those going into the sub or would those come directly to the whole? I realize the capital freed is going to be sitting in the sub and might not be dividend deductible but what about the proceeds where would those go? Those go into the subsidiary.
Okay.
And when you talked about freed capital that did not obviously include any impact from proceeds right? From the sales proceeds? That's correct.
And then just on the business your direct response sales were weak and I think you're expecting a flat or sort of flattish sales in 2016 off of just 4% growth in 2015.
So may be talk about what's going on there whether it's because of the market environment or is it more some of the changes that you're making given what's happened with your margins in that business? Jimmy as we have discussed previously we've experienced lower than expected profit margins associated with prescription drug underwriting changes.
So sales will be lower since we've now adjusted our marketing activities to eliminate the segments of profitable sales.
And we'll take our next question from Erik Bass with Citi.
Hi thank you.
First Frank could you just elaborate a little bit on your comment about if you do see ratings downgrades you think that you could use some assets on hand or other measures to kind of plug the RBC impact? Can you just expand on that a little bit? Sure.
As indicated in the -- in my comments that we kind of looked and have that rule of thumb that roughly $100 million of downgrades would extrapolate into probably needing about an additional $9 million of additional capital retained at current RBC levels.
And so whether it be the cash that's available at the holding company or as we said from being able to access the capital markets that we would have sources available to make for additional capital contribution to the company if we needed to.
Because just even using that rule of thumb if we were to have around $500 million of downgrades which is about half of the BBB energy bonds that we have out there that would really indicate that we would only need around $50 million of additional capital to retain our existing RBC levels.
Got it.
And obviously one option would be to just not dividend that out as well.
So I think were you implying that you don't expect any change to the free cash flow guidance or could the free cash flow be lower in that scenario? Always a possibility but we would always be looking at the opportunities and looking for the cheapest or most inexpensive way for our shareholders to fund that additional capital.
Got it thank you.
Erik I was just going to say Frank is right.
We probably use the lower cost approach.
And if you're talking about $50 million we could use the cash on hand or we could borrow short-term at a very low cost.
To us that's a much lower cost and reducing the dividend the amount we're dividending to the parent company.
Got it that's helpful.
And then just one question on direct response policy obligations.
As a percentage of premiums they were slightly above the 52% range that you're targeting for next year.
Any comments there and what gives you confidence that that ratio will come down over the next year? Yes that's right and that 52% was what we had there in Q4.
And for the year as a whole we had the obligation percentage of around 51% which was right at the top edge of what we had estimated for 2015.
I think for 2016 we had previously indicated we thought the policy obligations would be around that 52%.
If I move that up just slightly to somewhere in the 52.5% range is kind of what we would anticipate for the policy obligations and we're still really seeing our -- the overall margin percentage on the direct response in '16 being somewhere in that 19.5% to 20% range pretty much related I previously indicated we haven't really seen a lot of change in that at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Hi good morning everybody.
First just a couple I guess on Part D.
It sounds maybe it's the nature of the Part D business but it sounds to me from the conversation that just occurred with regards to when capital will be released that you kind of will remain on the books on the hook until current liabilities runoff.
And then so in a sense you're selling really the renewal rights.
Is that an accurate way to think about it? Well we really would be have responsibilities for the business up until the time of sales unless there's some other arrangement with a buyer from that perspective.
Of course really can't get into any details of how that might work.
But I think the point was that from an RBC perspective the way that the RBC rules work is if we sold it now or part way through the year you don’t get 100% reduction of that at the end of 2016.
Some of that bleeds over into 2017.
And then of course we are settling up even in '17 just with respect to -- or potentially we could be settling up in '17 on just receiving payments and again just depending on how the sales process and what arrangements or work that would require.
Okay.
And then Frank I think you said that you thought the drag in 2016 from reimbursement patterns on Part D would hurt by about $8 million your excess investment income.
Does that mean looking at a 2017 model just add that back? Correct.
Okay.
I mean in '17 let me modify that.
In 2017 there is still going to be a little -- here again all that's kind of assuming that we have a business for the better part of 2016 and then there are you have a little bit of drag in 2017 just pending the receipt if you will of the various receivables that we would anticipate as of the end of '16.
Okay.
And then Larry I apologize; I came a little bit late.
Did you run through kind of the sales expectations for the individual agencies already? If you did I'll just check the transcript.
I did but I'll be glad to go through it again.
For 2000 -- That's okay.
I'll check the transcript.
Let somebody else ask a question.
Thank you Larry.
Okay.
And we'll go next to Randy Binner with FBR.
Yes thanks.
I guess Steven Schwartz kind of asked my question but I'm just trying to understand what it is exactly you're selling? And I guess is the right way to think of it as mostly a renewal rights deal? I mean there is -- are there really standalone systems or other kind of distribution assets that would transfer with the business like this Part D business? Yes it really is a sale of contracts to be able to offer the Part D prescription drug coverage.
So to a certain degree it is the renewal rights.
We want to think about in that way there aren’t any hard assets; we don’t have any systems those types of things that are infrastructure if you will that's being sold.
All right.
And then just to follow-up on an earlier question too.
I guess the lack of earnings impact has to do with the fact that this is just a short tail business so it resolves -- it kind of resolves itself over the next 12 months and then someone would have the right to kind of take the book from there if they wanted to? That’s correct.
And then just touching on and I apologize if I missed this.
But did you all go through kind of where you're getting new money yields right now on investment grade and below investment grade? And I'd also be interested if you're seeing kind of stress or need for derisking in any part of your investment portfolio outside of energy? Well Randy as far as where we're placing our money.
I mentioned that it's primarily the industrial sector and that's where it's been as what we mentioned in the last two or three quarters.
Within that it's mostly been in the consumer sector we the transportation some of the other industrial sectors we haven't really added to our energy exposure.
As far as derisking we don't see at this point a need to sell any of our bonds.
And again let's talk about energy because that's what most people concern is.
We feel confident in the bonds that we have and we expect them to be money good.
So we don't expect to sell any of those.
In the last few years we have I think done a good job of spreading the risk of we were a little overweight on financials a few years ago with.
I think it's -- I think we're pleased with where we are with our distribution by sector.
And then just on yields did you touch on where you're getting new money yields in investment grade? And is it investment grade kind of A minus; is that the center point of the portfolio right now? It's A minus BBB plus.
And what yield did you get in the fourth quarter there? On fourth quarter we were just a little under 5%.
And I mentioned earlier that we've had some tax driven sales at the end of the year that actually pushes a little bit under 5%.
Had we not done that but I can't remember but it seemed like we would have been 5% 10% or in that range.
So far this quarter we've invested a little over $100 million as 5.25%.
But the rates have just the last few weeks have gone down and so if we were investing money today it would probably around 5%.
And we'll go next to John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Hi good morning.
I have a couple of questions.
One on the American Income agent count if I look 3Q to 4Q kind of surprised by the decline maybe it's nothing more than some culling of underperformers at year end.
I suspect that's really the answer for Liberty but can you give us some color on that? I think your question was American Income or was it Liberty? Well the question about American Income.
I'm -- I just -- I suspect because we typically see that kind of culling at Liberty in the fourth quarter.
It doesn't -- I don't think we tend to see as much in American Income but maybe I'm wrong.
Okay thank you.
There is two reasons for lower guidance.
It's based in part on the lower recruiting numbers I've seen during the fourth quarter of 2015 in January this year plus remember 2016 calls two strong years of agency and sales growth at American Income.
Over the two-year period our industry grew by 23%.
So based on our historical data I just sort of expect solid growth here in 2016.
I'll be in a better position to give that guidance into the second certainly by the third quarter call probably better feel for the agent growth for 2016.
Okay.
But the dip from the third quarter to the fourth quarter in the actual agent count not producing but I'm sorry not the average producing agent count but the actual quarter-end agent count? What was the driver of that? And if you look back at that that's seasonal with the Thanksgiving and Christmas Holidays.
Within American Income there is always a seasonal drop from third to fourth quarter.
Okay.
Then the second question is that sensitivity that you provided on the $100 million roughly of downgrades is equating to roughly two points on risk based capital.
Is that a -- and what is the downgrade is that a one notch downgrade or is it a entire letter downgrade? Meaning if that -- if we thought about $100 million of your BBB is going to BBs? Generally I mean that's again kind of rule of thumb and looking at different multiple scenarios and kind of looking at just kind of what -- I hate to use the word averages but just what can you glean from taking a look at all the multiple scenarios including taking a look at just some of the part at just some of the -- we did look at just the BBBs and may be really more NAIC class 2s and moving them down into class 3 and what if everybody wants to go down a notch and I mean those are included in those various scenarios we took a look at.
In that case it would still stay within the NAIC 2 category correct? It would stay within the NAIC -- well there would be some that would go from NAIC to NAIC -- 2 to 3 yes.
It definitely did include the drops from 2 to 3.
Okay that's helpful.
And then the -- what was my last question? I'm sorry to do this to you.
Oh I guess my question is this: so as you think about the level of buybacks here for 2016 and it seems for 2017 a similar level so in that $320 million to $330 million range is there some different approach to timing then that we should consider? I mean there's been obviously moves in the market and moves in stock valuations.
I'm curious; you kept the pace pretty consistent during 2015.
And I don't like to tend to ask about these kinds of questions about pace but I'm sure you are just as aware as most market participants are aware that there's a lot of speculation about Torchmark amongst may be a few other companies as an interesting potential takeout candidate following some of the transactions that took place over the last year or two with Protective and Symetra and StanCorp.
And I'm curious how you think about the impact of that on your stock price and on your pace of buybacks.
I would say generally with respect to the pace of the buyback is that we would continue for the most parts to have those buybacks radically throughout the course of the year.
So we would still think about having 80 some million dollars some per quarter.
And then where you do think that maybe there is some market opportunities may be that stepped up just a little bit in kind of a near-term.
Obviously we have had that from time-to-time where one quarter was a little bit more or less than the average if you will.
But I don't see us wearing for all strategy at any significant degree.
Okay.
And then is there any change as a result of Part D moving now into discontinued operations and essentially lack of sales at this point? Is there any change in the amount of new cash that you expect to be investing the pattern that that looks like 1Q to 2Q to 3Q and obviously 4Q is a pretty high level of cash invested and I assume that was in part driven by the receipts of cash from CMS? Yes that's correct.
Looking forward to -- within 2016 it doesn't have a -- it will continue to have a drag throughout 2016 tends to build a more of a drag in the first three quarters of the year but then a little bit more of that pop in the fourth quarter again.
And your expectations for what that receivable will look like? Were the cash received in the fourth quarter of '15 how much is that? We have around yes around $75 million what we would anticipate -- excuse me that's as of the end of 2015 that we would -- no that's right.
In the fourth quarter of 2016 somewhere in that $75 million range is what we anticipate being a receivable from CMS.
Okay.
So not nearly as big as the one from '14 received just a quarter early? That's correct.
We have -- we do anticipate it going down.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just wanted to follow-up on the I guess decline in cash flow for 2016 relative to really the last three years.
Can you help just walkthrough the drivers of that? I know a lot of it is sales driven but if you could give us little bit more granularity? I was little surprised at the step down in cash flow.
Yes.
I mean -- again as indicated -- I think there is couple of key drivers that all kind of work together to push that down.
But you do have the higher sales.
Since we talked about you have higher sales and in the first year of those sales acquisition expenses exceed the amount of premiums coming in so there is a drag on your statutory earnings from those.
And then in your -- you start having positive statutory incomes in that second year of this after the sale.
But as you continue to -- as we have the last couple years well we've had two really good years of continued sales and sales growth that's just pulling down on the amount of statutory income.
And now we anticipate those future profits from the sales to start really emerging coming in the future here.
But that's probably generating somewhere in that $15 million to $20 million of statutory drag in 2015 just by itself.
And then in a lot of normal years you'd have good increase in investment income that would help to offset that.
But unfortunately the last couple of years with the continuing drag that we have had largely from the Part D and then of course lower interest rates and to some degree the higher direct response claims we have been having growth in that investment income of only around at 2% or slightly above 2% level and rather than at that 4% or so percent where our invested assets are growing at.
So that's winging on it.
We have talked a little bit about we had some higher acquisition or administrative cost in this just in growth in 2015 from some of our IT and pension cost and that type of thing.
And then the way that the accounting rules work for Federal income taxes we just -- basically are -- you don't get quite the smoothing effect you have on for GAAP purposes.
And we just end up having some higher taxes in 2015 here than we did on a comparable basis for 2014.
Okay.
So there is I mean obviously a lot of factors there.
If we look back over the last three years was there anything unusual and perhaps unsustainable that was contributing to cash flow or would you think of the next two years as may be that the drag from higher sales in some of these other items that you've outlined as may be keeping it unusually low for a couple of years? Yes.
I think your later comment.
I think it's -- I don't see anything that was terribly unusual other than may be the drags of some of the higher direct response cost and then the drag from Part D.
And we'll take our next question from Ryan Krueger with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Couple other follow-ups.
In terms of the $60 million to $70 million of capital back in Part D to the extent that runs off I can say wouldn't come through I don't think as earnings that would.
But would you still -- would you view that given that it would cause an increase in the RBC ratio as being able to be divided and up to the parent company in the following year? Right.
It does not come through as earnings as you said.
So that well it may be available as extraordinary dividend to the extent that our capital levels would permit it.
But it truly would have to be something that would have to be approved by the regulators.
Okay.
Got it.
And what entities are -- is this business in legally? United American predominantly.
Got it.
Okay.
And then on the downgrade scenario.
Some of the other companies that the scenario that they provided have been lower than the impact would like it would be if you simply apply the RBC and factors for C1 risk? And they've mentioned co-variants and diversification offset to that.
It didn't seem like you -- I guess in your impact it didn't seem like there was any sort of co-variant offset so how should we think about that? I think you should -- the impacts of the co-variant from the other offsets were taken into account estimated to some degree within that overall rule of thumb that I provided.
All right.
And then last one.
Can you just discuss the -- how the impairment policy work so from a pricing standpoint.
So if you fully intent to hold a security to maturity but the bond let's say is trading at $0.50 on the $1 for an extended period of time.
Is there any -- anything that requires you to potentially impair that security if you still think it will pay off at par? No.
And the answer to your question the fact that it's just trading below book value in and of itself even for an extend period of time wouldn't require us to impair that security.
We would have to take a look and evaluate that particular bond offering and determine do we think its money good.
And as long as we believe that we're going to collect that the principal amount from that.
And in our particular case we have the ability and the intent to hold those two maturities.
So as long as we believe and can demonstrate that we will be able to collect that at maturity then we do not have to have an impairment on the accounting rule.
That includes both GAAP and statutory? Correct.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney.
Good morning.
What's behind the margin improvement in Liberty National in Q4? And I think you said it was a factor behind your revised guidance for 2016? Bob it really is more of a timing issue there because the -- if you compare the two quarters the reason for the higher margin is that we had lower policy obligations in fourth quarter '15.
As it turns out fourth quarter '14 was our highest policy obligation quarter and fourth quarter '15 was the lowest for the year 2015.
If you look at on a year-to-date basis 2015 was 38% of premium versus 39% of premium the year before so it's yes pretty much same.
Our outlook for the coming year is that we'll policy obligations will be at around 38% level.
And our margins would be somewhere I think at the midpoint about 26.5% and that's a little bit lower than 2015 but little bit higher than 2014.
So you didn't say that the preset increase was partially due to Liberty National margin assumptions for '16 change? Yes.
What I had just indicated was that we just had little bit of an improved outlook internally with respect to where that margin was with the -- from what we had back in the third quarter.
So I think we're anticipating our overall margin to be somewhere in that 25% to 27% range for the entire year of 2016 and just a slight improvement over where we just kind of thought it would have been back in October.
But nothing has changed at Liberty National Q3 to Q4; I misheard that for your outlook? Yes.
Okay.
We had a -- we -- between Q3 and Q4 guidance we just had a slight increase in our expectation of the margin for 2016.
I thought you motioned Liberty National in that but you didn't.
You didn't mean too.
Yes.
On the price it was Liberty National.
Now I'm confused.
Let me step back.
So has Liberty National changed at all from Q3 to Q4? For Liberty National our outlook on the overall margin for 2016 increased slightly partially.
Okay.
What's behind that? Just a slightly better outlook as far as our net policy obligations.
Okay.
And what's the timing of the sale? How far alone are you? Are there RFPs out? Yes.
We can't -- we really can't talk about it.
Whether there are RFPs out you can't say? Well I think in my comments indicated that we're in the midst of discussions with multiple parties.
And we'll take our next question from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Frank I was hoping we could return to the question about the reduction in ratings in the energy portfolio.
Is the $100 million a principal amount on the $9 million of incremental capital that would be required? Is that the result of -- again in response to John Nadel's question is that an analysis that looks at the impact of an -- of multiple rating multiple scenarios for notching changes or just one notch? I was not clear in the response.
It's kind of amalgamation of looking at multiple scenarios our investment department took a look at.
Some of those scenarios would have taken -- would have looked at one notch downgrade for the entire portfolio.
Right.
We would have also looked within that those range of scenarios just dropped from NAIC from 2 to 3 for a certain amount of our portfolio.
And obviously it is different if you -- if all of the downgrades go from one notch down to another notch.
If it's all 2 to 3 we'll have some impact.
But as a general rule we believe that this rule of thumb will hold or be fairly close.
Okay.
Why don't I leave it there for now? Thanks very much.
And gentlemen at this time I'll turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Thanks for being with us.
Those are our comments and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.