Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur-Pedic First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Barry Hytinen Senior Vice President.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Ally and thank you everyone for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams Executive Vice President and CFO.
After prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company’s expectations regarding sales and earnings involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company’s business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company’s SEC filings including the company’s annual report on Form 10-K under the headings "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors." Any forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company’s website at tempurpedic.com and it is filed with the SEC.
Now with that introduction it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Barry.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide a brief overview of our performance in the first quarter and then provide an update on our strategic focus areas for 2011.
Dale will then provide a detailed review of the first quarter results and will discuss our financial guidance.
We're very pleased with the first quarter results.
Sales and profits exceeded our prior expectations in both our North American and international segments.
Sales were up 28% from last year and earnings per share were up 55% with operating margins at 23% driven by our continued focus on productivity and fixed-cost leverage while making significant investments in marketing.
Our sales growth was significantly ahead of the industry in the U.S.
and in many of our major overseas markets.
So we continue to expand market share worldwide.
We believe this outperformance was directly related to the implementation of our strategic initiatives.
The first of these initiatives is to make sure that everyone knows that they would sleep better on TEMPUR.
And during the quarter we increased our investment in advertising by nearly 60% with considerable growth both in North America and in our key international markets.
While it is still early all these marketing campaigns are showing positive results.
And in particular our brand awareness campaign in Europe is progressing well.
For example an important leading indicator of sales is website hits and we have seen web traffic rise considerably in the U.S.
but also in the U.K.
France and Germany all markets where we've increased our advertising.
In the U.S.
and in Europe retailers report that consumers are volunteering that they've seen TEMPUR advertising and are asking specifically for our brand and our measured brand awareness is tracking at record highs.
In the second quarter and throughout the year we will continue to test and evaluate ways to make our consumer communication even more effective.
The second strategic initiative that drove our growth this quarter was making sure there's a TEMPUR mattress and pillow for everyone.
We continue to expand our product range both in North America and internationally as we work to ensure there is a product in our portfolio that appeals to everyone.
In the U.S.
the Cloud Luxe mattress continued its roll out and we've been very pleased with its performance.
Some of our retailers report that it's their best-selling mattress which is striking for a $4 500 king set.
Obviously this is helping Tempur-Pedic and our retailers improve average ticket.
Another factor helping drive average selling price is our commitment to the TEMPUR Ergo Adjustable System.
We began advertising Ergo for the first time earlier this year combined with a nationwide promotion.
And together with a focus on driving incremental distribution and retail training we've seen our attach rates improve significantly and we see a lot of opportunity for further attach rate improvement.
This quarter we will begin rolling out the Contour Collection our newly designed traditional Tempur filling mattress line.
We expect this to be a fast roll out into nearly all U.S.
accounts within just a few months.
And based on initial reactions we are optimistic that we will gain incremental slots during the process.
We are expanding our product range significantly overseas as well.
At the end of March we began the distribution of the Cloud Collection internationally an effort we expect to take 12 to 18 months.
As a reminder the Cloud Collection is our softer-filling mattress line.
It is now on retail floors in Germany and some of the surrounding markets and we recently introduced the product line to our French and Spanish dealers.
While it is early in the launch retailer interest and initial consumer sell-through are encouraging.
And now turning to our commitment to ensure that Tempur is available to everyone.
We expanded our retail distribution in the U.S.
during the quarter.
We gained incremental slots from the Cloud launches and we opened a handful of new accounts.
And we also gained Dan-Foam Aps internationally where we will grow distribution throughout the year.
We're also continuing to execute on our own store growth plan in China where we project significant growth over the next several years.
In summary we've had a very good quarter and we are expecting that we will have a good year overall.
In the longer run we remain confident that there's enormous potential for Tempur-Pedic.
We will continue to make significant investments in marketing as this will be critical to capitalizing on this considerable market share opportunity we see for our brand.
With that I'll now hand it over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the financials and our 2011 guidance.
In total first quarter net sales were $326 million an increase of 28% over the same period last year.
North American sales were up 37% and international sales were up 11%.
On a constant-currency basis our international sales were up 8%.
By channel in North American retail net sales were $208 million an increase of 45%.
Internationally retail sales were up 11% to $76 million.
On a product basis mattresses were up 29% driven by a 14% increase in units.
North American mattress sales increased 36% on a 20% increase in units.
The increased average unit selling price reflects improved mix and pricing as well as fewer floor models in 2011 as compared to the prior year.
For the second quarter with the Contour launch that Mark discussed we expect average U.S.
price to be modestly impacted by the deeply discounted floor models.
In the International segment.
Mattress sales increased 12%.
On a constant-currency basis international mattress sales were up 10%.
International mattress units increased 4%.
In total pillows were up 13% driven by a 7% increase in units.
North American pillow sales increased 24% on unit growth of 17% with the related ASP improvement due to favorable mix.
International pillow sales were up 3% on a 5% decline in volumes.
Sales of our other product line which includes items that are normally sold along with a mattress were up 36%.
As Mark mentioned we are seeing favorable attach rate trends for the Ergo Bed System which is the driver of this growth.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.3% up 310 basis points year-on-year and 40 basis points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis the gross margin improvement related to a variety of factors including the ongoing productivity program generated improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution.
We had favorable product mix and increased production volumes to support higher sales resulted in fixed-cost leverage.
Partially offsetting these benefits was unfavorable geographic mix as the North American business continued to grow as a percent of the total.
Reflecting our commitment to ensure everybody knows they would sleep better on Tempur we ramped our advertising investment by over 200 basis points.
Despite this investment operating margin expanded by 250 basis points to 23.1%.
Our G&amp;A expense reflects our ongoing strategic investments including key IT projects to scale the business given our long-term positive outlook.
In addition G&amp;A incorporates higher incentive compensation related to bonus and the variable component of our equity plans.
Interest expense was $2.5 million.
As I mentioned on our last call we have initiated the process to renew our credit facility and I currently expect this to be completed in the second quarter.
Our tax rate was 33.1%.
Net income was $48.3 million up from $33.1 million last year.
Given our improved profitability EPS was $0.68 up from $0.44 last year.
Now I'll turn to the balance sheet for a brief review.
Our accounts receivable balance was up reflecting improved sales levels.
And DSOs were down five days from the first quarter of last year yet up slightly from year end.
The increase on a sequential basis reflects improving sales trends during the quarter.
Inventories were up $4 million year-on-year consistent with new product launches and our positive outlook for sales.
We generated $56 million of operating cash flow during the quarter and capital expenditures were $5 million.
At the end of the quarter our funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 1.3x far below our debt covenant of 3x.
Now I'd like to make a few comments about our share repurchase program.
Through open market purchases we bought back 1.32 million shares during the quarter at an average price of $47.35 for a total cost of $62.5 million.
As of March 31 2011 we had $137.5 million still available under the existing share repurchase authorization.
Now I'd like to address our updated guidance for the year.
We currently expect net sales to range from $1.31 billion to $1.36 billion and we currently expect earnings per share to range from $2.80 to $2.95 per diluted share.
Within this guidance we expect our gross margin to be up slightly more than 200 basis points for the full year driven by our ongoing productivity plan and fixed-cost leverage partially offset by higher commodity costs and geographic mix.
Regarding the second quarter we expect a few factors will likely result in a modest sequential decline in our gross margin rate.
These factors are: floor model discounts related to our new product launches in the closeout; an expectation for higher commodity costs; unfavorable segment mix as our sales at our international segment will be down from the first quarter which is consistent with normal seasonality; and consistent with our long-term plans we are planning to advertise at a rate of at least 10% of sales for the full year.
We expect interest expense for the full year to be approximately $11 million.
For the full year we anticipate the tax rate to be generally in line with our first quarter run rate at 33.3%.
We are using a share count of 71 million shares for the full year.
This assumption includes the benefit of our repurchase activity in the first quarter however does not assume benefit from potential further reduction in shares outstanding.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And at this point operator we would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mark Rupe from Longbow Research.
This is actually Andy in for Mark.
I guess as it relates to the Contour rollout could you maybe give us a little bit of an idea of what sort of is the margin implication as we look ahead to next year? I think you indicated that it’d be sort of blended price increase of -- correct me if I'm wrong but in North America it would be something like maybe high single digits low double-digit price increase? And then also is that sort of baked into your guidance for the I guess for the coming years? Yes.
This is Dale.
Related to the Contour the average pricing of the Contour is a little bit higher than the existing Tempur line.
As we've mentioned the introductory model is the same price as our current introductory model but the better and best are a little bit higher priced.
This is a completely new product redesign from the core it's a little bit more expensive.
But from an overall margin standpoint the Contour will be comparable to slightly better than the existing product line that it's replacing.
So obviously from this year's standpoint the impact of the Contour is a tremendous amount of floor models going out in a short period of time with approximately 7 000 retailers out there and if you assume that they have a couple of beds of these beds on each floor now that's a lot of floor models going out in a short period of time.
So that's why we've talked all year about in the second and third quarter when we're doing this rollout there'll be a little bit of pressure there.
But once we get through that rollout then we would expect obviously to see good performance from a gross margin standpoint.
Okay great.
And it sounds like most of that's going to be related to -- in the second quarter most of the floor model rollouts and it maybe trickle off in the third quarter.
Is that right way to think about it? Yes.
The idea is to get the bulk of them out in the second quarter but there will be some spillover into 3Q.
Okay.
And on your international advertising.
Could you kind of remind us what you're sort of doing internationally as it relates to your advertising? I think you're doing some TV advertising.
Is that your first time in those markets? And maybe if you could kind of give us share your thoughts kind of your expectations on what you're looking to see in terms of response for those ads? Yes.
It's not our first time.
We have been advertising internationally for a long time.
The difference here now is that we have in Europe in general which is where we've been for the longest we really haven't done very much advertising on TV.
We have done a bit but really not very sustained or systematic over the years.
As of now we are materially increasing our spending on marketing as we've said on advertising in Europe and in particular on TV.
And so we've introduced the new campaign there called the "weightless" campaign which is it's important to recognize that while the situation in much of the rest of the world much of the markets many of the markets where we compete but particularly those in Europe we have really quite good distribution but relatively low awareness.
So if we can lift the awareness we should quickly be able to see the benefit in sales.
And so our focus is on raising consumer awareness of the brand.
And we're using this new campaign called "weightless " which is to introduce people who don't what Tempur is.
And that is running right now and so far has been quite effective.
And we're tracking -- obviously sales we're tracking as I mentioned in the prepared comments web hits because that's a good measure of whether people are responding.
And also we're measuring awareness systematically too.
And it's that that we're seeking to raise.
Now this is not going be a one-month or one-quarter event.
This is a strategic change and it will take time and we're early in the process.
But where we stand right now we're pleased with the progress that we're making.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just finally for me could you give us maybe an idea of how sales trended throughout the quarter? Maybe on a month-by-month basis for both sort of the domestic and international businesses? Sure.
Really for both domestic and international we were monitoring our business we were determined what the guidance was for the year and announced that in late January.
And our guidance expectations at that time were in line with what we were seeing in January.
We saw the business improve in the second and third month of the first quarter which was why we over performed in the first quarter about both domestically and internationally and why we have adjusted our outlook for the year.
So we saw a step-up in business in February and March.
Okay great.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I wanted to just follow-up on advertising.
Dale I heard you mentioned about a 200 basis point increase in advertising.
Could you just help to quantify a little bit more on what the dollar spend was this quarter versus last year in the first quarter? And given the acceleration that you saw in sales did we get a little bit more leverage on advertising than you would have expected this quarter? And how is this changing your thoughts about advertising as we continue to go through the year? Okay.
In the first quarter of 2010 we spent about $22 million globally which was a little less than 9% roughly 8.5%.
In the first quarter of 2011 we spent just a little over $34 million so a significant increase in spend and that was at about 10.5% of sales.
Hence the 200 basis points step up.
As Mark mentioned this is a concerted strategic effort.
We mentioned this last fall at our Investor Day in New York in terms of the adjustment to our strategic plans.
Our long-term strategic plan is to spend advertising at roughly the 10% rate.
We said this year would be 10% or more.
We saw good response as Mark mentioned particularly the way that you can -- we found that we can really effectively measure the advertising in the immediate term is what happened on the web.
And so the quick response of web hits was very encouraging to us and as the quarter progressed we actually spent more than what we originally planned in the first quarter.
We added some extra flights particularly in the key markets in Europe.
And so this is something that we're going to be monitoring very closely.
We're committed to the planned spend levels but as we see performance we will continue to put a little bit more fuel in the fire.
Great.
And as a follow-up on your comments about input prices.
You did say you have higher assumptions for chemical prices.
Can you just give us an update in terms of what you're seeing and hearing from your suppliers? And then what assumption for raw materials is baked into your new guidance? Sure.
The environment around commodities is fluid going up and down but generally is much higher than it was at the start of the year.
At the start of the year we said that in our plan for the year was that we would see in a high single-digit increase in commodity costs for the year and that was baked into our prior guidance.
Our new guidance bakes in kind of a low to mid teens increase in commodity costs.
So we have upped the commodity cost impact on the business yet we continue to improve the gross margin because of the strong productivity because of the mix of the business because from a product standpoint and the leverage from additional volume.
So we're able to sit here today and expect a larger impact from commodities than we thought at the beginning of the year and still be able to further improve our gross margins.
Great thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> It's two questions.
First you talked about in your prepared remarks that mix was a contributor to gross margin in the quarter.
I just want to dig in to that more deeply was that with the mattresses pillows? Can you give us specific examples of where that was the case? Yes Keith.
Let's talk the big one first.
As Mark mentioned the Cloud Luxe is performing extremely well.
The Cloud Luxe is a very high-margin product for us.
It's a better-than-fleet average product.
So as the Luxe has gotten into distribution and has shown very strong performance the Luxe in itself is a key driver of the product mix benefit.
We've seen some positive mix in pillows.
Pillow continues to perform extremely well that's a little bit higher price point a little bit higher margin than our average pillow.
So we're seeing good performance across the business.
Also the Ergo attach rate while its lower margin than the mattress or pillow it's a better margin product than a flat foundation a much higher price point.
Inc.</strong> The Cloud Luxe and the Cloud in general are the raw material costs any different between it and the other SKUs in mattresses? The chemical composition is a little bit different in the Cloud it's a different formula.
So it's slightly different but not dramatically different when we talk about the price increase impacts that's impacting all of our formulations.
Inc.</strong> So the cost I know it’s different formulation but the cost is similar to what we see with the other mattresses? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then final question on you had mentioned also in the prepared comments on the brand recognition specifically within Europe at all-time highs.
How do you measure that? Where do you stand and where are you trying to go? Any details on that would be helpful.
The way that we measure it is that we measure it.
We have a systematic measuring process that we've had in place for some time now that we put in place as a sort of baseline so that we can measure the effectiveness of the advertising going forward in each of the countries.
But where we are is relatively low.
We've got a long way to go quite honestly and that's well understood and it's what we're doing.
We're not going to share the exact numbers.
And frankly we're three months into this process.
It's right here and it's very very early.
As I said the results are encouraging.
It's hard to say it's done yet.
But the thing that it does appear well it certainly appears as though there's a response and it’s even at such a short time response that can be measured in awareness.
But it's very early and we've got a long way to go.
So by comparison to the U.S.
where we have really essentially in terms of brand awareness almost 100%.
We've got a very long way to go in Europe.
And Keith I would just add the awareness measurement we've instituted a monthly tracking measurement in Europe where monthly we're getting feedback in terms of awareness.
So that we can see the impact of the advertising as quickly as possible.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Couple of questions if I could.
One productivity Dale you talked about the efficiency in the manufacturing and talked about the fixed-cost leverage.
Could you parch that a bit up for us in terms of which was more important and what we might see going forward and how that work geographically? Yes.
From a geographic standpoint we're seeing a little bit more volume leverage in the U.S.; obviously the U.S.
business is growing faster.
And volume leverage is a key -- I'm not going to break it down exactly into various components but volume leverage is a key contributor to the continued gross margin improvement as you would expect.
We continue to see very good productivity performance across the business.
And as we said earlier the productivity plan that we had in place for this year even with the increased commodity costs the productivity program is performing better than the original plan so that even with increased commodity costs our productivity program is taking care of the increased commodity costs as we currently see it.
So that's where the upside leverage is coming from.
The volume is coming from positive product mix et cetera.
And so we saw a very strong increase in ASP in the first quarter principally caused by mix.
The price increase on the Cloud Supreme really had very little impact on the first quarter that will be a benefit as the year progresses.
Inc.</strong> One of the other things that jumped out at me though it's a small part of the business it's indicative the international direct business looks like it was up I guess on probably restated currency numbers 80% or so? Yes.
Let me explain that.
We put a note in the press release but it's something that might be looked over easily.
We did an analysis here at the end of the year in terms of the economics of our different channels and we had been including our owned -- internationally the stores that we own for example in China.
We have some of our own stores in Japan.
We have a store here there in Europe.
Those were included in retail but we determined particularly as we're starting to ramp stores in China that it didn't make sense to have those stores listed in retail anymore because from an economic standpoint those stores look more like our direct business.
So we've shifted the reporting of stores that we own out of retail into direct.
So you see huge growth in direct internationally.
And that's a reallocation of these owned stores.
And so we have given you in the release also the prior-year numbers are restated to this new basis.
But on that restated basis you see a big growth in direct and that's because of ramping stores in China some increasing stores that we had through the year last year in Japan and sporadically here there across Europe having a store to being put in place.
Inc.</strong> So that's more to the stores in place internationally as opposed to web traffic or web-based sales internationally? Correct.
Internationally except for the U.K.
we don't have the same kind of direct business that we have here.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And one of the other numbers that jumped out was healthcare not doing as well.
What can you tell us about that? And what may be a focus going forward to try to improve that performance? Yes you're right Budd.
The Medical business is down and the medical is a something of a catch on in the sense that it's different in the different parts of the world.
For example in the U.S.
it's primarily our source us supplying major hospital bed manufacturers whereas in Europe it is the sale of normal Tempur mattresses through sort of semi-pharmaceutical type retailers and they're sometimes subsidized by the government.
So from country to country the Medical business is quite different.
And one driver of the decline overall is because increasingly consumers are finding that the price advantage of going through these pharmaceutical retailers is not significant and they’re going to regular retailers.
But having said all that it is an area that in time we will focus on.
It is something that we think there is more opportunity and that we will focus on.
Quite candidly at this minute we have bigger fish to fry.
So we're putting our focus in other areas.
It is something that we will turn to at some stage.
Inc.</strong> And lastly for me Mark.
You had said that you're gaining incremental slots through Contour and I guess the discontinuation.
I think the only bed that I see in the stores now that is being closed out is the Classic at this point in time.
I thought you were going to replace two other models.
If I remember right the Deluxe and the Advantage? Right.
The Deluxe will be closed out as well and you'll see that too.
The Advantage is as Dale said the Deluxe and the Classic are being replaced with the Select and the Signature two new Contour products that are different both in terms of their core and their cover.
The Advantage is being replaced with a product which is going to be called the Contour which has the same core as the current Advantage but a different cover.
And so what we're going to do there is we'll replace the covers on the floor models and therefore there won't be a close out on that.
Inc.</strong> Right now you're only closing out the Classic right? And so when do you start to see the discounts or the closeout on the other two models? They both are right now.
You should see it any day.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you very much.
Our next question comes from John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
On the advertising the weightless campaign in Europe will that also be done in any areas outside of Europe number 1? And then number 2 as you roll out Cloud through the world will there be any product-specific advertising around Cloud throughout the world? First of all weightless -- I say Europe because Europe is much of our business but weightless will be used in other parts of the world for example in China.
So it will be used in other parts of the world.
What we see it as it's a good ad for the purposes of introducing people who are not familiar with the brand to what is the promise of the product.
So it does work in other countries and we are and we'll continue to use it in other places.
And at the exact other end of the spectrum in countries where the brand is well known the news or the importance of the communication is the fact that we now have the Cloud line which is new to the consumers -- this is the news to the consumer.
So for example in -- Benelux which is one of our most developed European markets we are advertising the arrival of the Cloud because the consumers there are familiar with Tempur.
So it is being used more broadly.
But in every country we are evaluating what the state of the consumer awareness is and what the most relevant piece of communication that we should use and then we're using whichever is the right one from our portfolio of communication vehicles.
And then staying on advertising for a second.
Is there a long range of number and let's just talk U.S.
here where the awareness and whatever metrics you're measuring hit a level where the incremental ad spend is not as effective? If so sort of where is that in the time line from today and what might a more mature ad spend as a percentage of revenue be in the United States once you hit that level? That's a big theoretical question.
But the fact is that clearly there comes a stage when the incremental value of incremental dollar is not worth it and we're well aware of that.
However quite candidly we're not there yet.
The awareness I mean remember that one of the things I said before was that aided awareness is very high which means that if you say to somebody "Do you know Tempur-Pedic?" they say "Yes I do." But unaided awareness which is "Tell me a name of a mattress brand?" While higher than it's ever been it's still lower than we'd like it to be and that is the one that's correlated to purchase intent.
So we want unaided awareness to be higher than it is and we will continue to invest in that.
And as we've said our long-term sort of strategic objective is that 10% spend on advertising and it is a rule-of-thumb type of target but that seems appropriate.
At this moment in this quarter and for this year we're expecting to spend a little more than that because we're still moving up the product.
Once we get to the level of brand recognition that we would want we theoretically would be able to ramp down and probably will.
But bear in mind that what that then changes to is communicating news.
One of the things is that once consumers are aware of the brand then the next job is to make sure that they're continually aware of the new news in the brand.
But it is a moving target with some years away from where we finally intend to end up.
Okay thanks.
And then lastly and I don't expect you to tell me all the products you've got planned here but the IMAX theater seating caught my attention.
And I'm curious how you could convey to us how you think about non-mattress non-pillow opportunities globally either in terms of size or market? Are you going to go automotive are you going to go home furnishings? Any kind of help to think about that would be great.
Well you're right I'm not going to tell you.
But in all seriousness of course you're right.
At some stage it will be appropriate for us to move beyond the range that we're at.
But frankly we're not there yet.
We've got a lot of opportunity with the product range or the categories in which we compete right now.
And that is going to be our way primary focus for the next year or for the foreseeable future.
Ultimately we do believe there is expansion beyond but not in the planning cycle that we talk about right now.
John I would just add that the IMAX item in particular that's the capability of doing that goes back to the entrepreneurial days when we were doing a lot of different things.
We got out of a lot of those adjunct peripheral opportunities when the business decided to focus on its core.
But this situation with the IMAX in Boston was a unique opportunity that we found compelling.
And we had the capability of -- because we knew how we still had the molds et cetera so we could put very easily make those seats.
And what we make is just the Tempur material for the seats we don't manufacture the whole seat.
Correct.
Our next question comes from Bob Drbul of Barclays Capital.
Just a couple of questions for you.
First on the industry when you look at your sales results versus the industry can you maybe just give us a little bit of quantitative numbers around your market share gains in the trends and specialty? And what you think is happening in the industry thus far this year? Yes we can Bob just to a degree.
At this stage we don't have full industry data for 2010 yet.
So we have the ISPA sample which represents somewhere in the neighborhood historically of 70% of the industry.
But we don't even have the full industry data for 2010 yet.
However as we look at 2010 we think we gained quite a bit of share from an overall industry standpoint.
For 2011 so far all we have is January and February ISPA data.
We don't have March yet.
I'm not sure exactly when it will come out.
Typically it would come out sometime here in the next week or so.
So looking at January and February that on the monthly data it's only the total mattress market.
There's no split between spring and specialty.
But sitting here today looking at how the industry performed in January and February we continued to take a tremendous amount of share.
We continued to be a significant portion of at least the ISPA-reported growth of the industry.
So realistically what we believe is going on is we are seeing a strong growth in the industry in premium and even stronger growth in terms of our share of premium as well as specialty share premium.
We're actually kind of curious to see the full 2010 data ourselves.
Okay.
And then as you look at the expanded distribution in the U.S.
and some of the international distribution expansion that's underway can you just give us an idea like when you look at your door count in the U.S.
I think you had talked about 500 to 1 500 additional doors.
Is that still a good number in North America? And on the international side I think was it the largest bedding retailer Dreams you guys added them as a distributor.
What are the other sort of big opportunities in terms of chains on the international rollout door count et cetera? Yes.
Domestically we still believe that we have a lot of growth opportunity in terms of doors and we added some doors in the first quarter as Mark mentioned.
We had a couple of key new accounts which had some sizable door numbers.
And so domestically we're just a little over 7 000 in the furniture and bedding stores now.
And internationally as you mentioned we added Dreams last year which is the largest bedding retailer in the U.K.
We have opportunities in almost every market to expand our distribution.
We're not going to name names.
We generally try not to do that even with existing customers much less new customers.
However we do have targets in each country.
We do have prospects in each country.
And the ones that we think make sense to give us the right level of distribution the right depth of distribution in each country and retailers that our brand fits with in terms of having a good reputation and having a good premium business.
It's also important to recognize that it's -- what's important and it's kind of interesting to recognize that country by country the structure of the industries are quite different in terms of the proportion of the total sales that are owned by large chains is very different from one country to another particularly when it comes to the products that are premium.
So the strategy that we have for each country is customized for that country and the target customer type is customized for that country.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer.
I just have a couple of quick ones.
First in terms of the industry Dale you talked about that a little bit.
But you also mentioned that your trends in the quarter improved in February and March and I was also pleasantly surprised to see overall growth particularly in North America we accelerate in the first quarter.
To what do you attribute that to? Obviously market share gain has been going on for quite some time but is it more advertising or is there something else going on that really drove that reacceleration in February and March? It's a combination of things.
The advertising is helping and obviously advertising is cumulative.
The longer you do it it continues to build.
So that's one important part.
And the other thing is the Cloud is continuing to be a very important driver.
And Dale mentioned the Cloud Luxe a new product is doing very well and frankly a little bit better than we had expected.
We also ran an effective promotion a nationwide promotion on the Ergo base which again lifted not only the sales of Ergo but the sales of beds.
It contributed to our overall volume.
And the advertising and other things that we're doing drove people to the web too which also lifted our direct business.
So there wasn't one thing it was the combination of the different things that we've been focused on over the last 18 months or so.
Great.
Thanks Mark.
That's very helpful.
And then secondly in terms of pricing.
You mentioned the pricing you took on Cloud Supreme.
What is the appetite right now amongst consumers and retailers if commodity costs continue to rise for additional price increase later this year? Well certainly we're very confident in our business we're very confident in our ability to take price if we were to determine that we needed to.
We just raised the price on the Cloud Supreme and it was not a factor in the marketplace on that product.
And as we introduced the Contour the two higher end the better and best Contours are higher priced than the products they're replacing.
At this stage we're not concerned about that from a market reaction standpoint.
So I think that we're in a little bit of a unique position particularly given the breadth of our range and the depth of our range where we can opportunistically take a price here or there if we've felt like we needed to because of commodity cost.
But as I mentioned earlier right now as we sit here we're seeing over performance in our productivity programs which are right now compensating for the increased commodity costs.
Our current commodity cost expectations are quite a bit higher than what they were at the start of the year.
But our productivity program is compensating for that.
Our next question comes from Eric Hollowaty of Stephens Corp.
I wanted to dig into China for a moment.
Could you refresh us on the number of stores that you have there now? And how you're thinking about the ultimate opportunity there maybe in terms of number of stores? We haven't actually shared the number of stores that we have.
And we're not going to at this stage.
It's a relatively small number although growing quite fast.
We think that there is an opportunity in China to get a substantial number of stores across the country.
But we're relatively early in that process right now.
So that's really all we can say about it at this stage.
Sure understood.
Maybe then if you could help us understand what's your approach to positioning of the brand there? Are you seeing as -- maybe what you call luxury brand? Or maybe if you could just help us get our heads around how you position the brand relative to the competition that'd be great? Clearly we're a luxury brand.
We're a premium -- we would be perceived to be super premium.
But at the same time in China the stores that carry or the malls in which our stores are carry many brands and many of them are super premium.
So there are in China a lot of large what they call furniture malls which carry many many bands most of which are Chinese but by no means all.
Many of them are European and American and where they are selling super products that are in the same ballpark of price as ours.
And so we are super premium but we are not alone in the retail outlets where we are and these are very big malls.
Okay great.
That's very helpful.
Our next question comes from Jon Andersen of William Blair.
I just wanted to come back to the distribution opportunity for a minute and the door count.
As you look forward and continue to add doors both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
do you believe that the new doors have the potential to be as productive as your existing doors? Or would you expect some cannibalization or lower velocity through those? If you expect them to be as productive I guess why would that be? In simple terms I think the answer is yes we do expect them to be essentially as productive.
Remember we have about 3% market share.
We really have only a small proportion of the total homes in America.
So we have really only a small proportion of the total market.
So we have the opportunity to grow well beyond where we are.
And insofar as consumers don't have easy access to our products one of our key strategic initiatives is make sure it's available to everyone.
Getting the appropriate mall distribution is important and we will do it and what we've seen is that the productivity is as high.
And in Europe and in China and in Asia in general we definitely have the opportunity to open more stores where -- because we clearly do not have.
We clearly have opportunity to open more stores because we are not as fully penetrated as we should be and so we at least expect the productivity to be consistent.
Okay thanks.
In terms of the demand both in the quarter and I guess the outlook for the year is ahead of initial expectations I know you have quite a bit of excess capacity in aggregates.
But I'm wondering if there are any constraints within individual plants any of the three manufacturing plants or specific products lines? No.
From a capacity standpoint we have ample capacity in all the plants.
Obviously the Denmark plant is serving the international business.
The international business growth rates through the last couple of years have been significantly less than the U.S.
growth rate.
But within the U.S.
the production at the two facilities in the U.S.
is relatively balanced.
So they both still have ample capacity.
I'll just reiterate we've said for quite a while now with our existing capacity we could have support revenue in the neighborhood of $2.5 billion.
So we still have quite a ways to go before we get concerned about capacity utilization.
Terrific.
Just one more question on the Luxe.
Is the rollout complete now in the Luxe or is there still more to go? And also are you seeing cannibalization for the Luxe that's kind of in line with your expectations or maybe less so? And who is the Luxe taking share from? The Luxe is mostly rolled out now but there's still more opportunity for rollout but it's mostly rolled out.
And it is as we said doing well.
It does cannibalize clearly like any product to some extent from within our line.
Interestingly it's cannibalizing from lower-priced products.
So we're okay with doing that.
But we are clearly taking from other -- I mean clearly in aggregate it appears much of the growth is coming from or the Luxe is coming from other premium products in the marketplace.
Terrific thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Tony Gikas of Piper Jaffray.
A couple of quick questions.
Just on the rollout of the Cloud in Europe.
I know you commented a little bit it appears to be off to a good start maybe just elaborate on the initial weeks that the product has been out relative to the trajectory of sales here in the U.S.
when it rolled out last year or relative to your expectations? Maybe just a little more color there.
Second as it relates to your consumer it seems to be pretty healthy at this point.
Do you think that there's still a lot of pent-up demand from the slowness that we saw back in 2008 and '09? Or do you think that there's really some sustainability in the business over the next couple of years and then I have one follow-up.
Well let me do the Cloud first and Europe.
First of all it is too early to talk about sell-through at this stage.
It really has been on the floor for literally weeks too early to tell.
I think the best indicator that we've got right now is dealer reaction which is always a good indicator although not perfect to what the reaction is going to be.
And the dealer reaction in Germany and Austria and in some of the -- and Benelux has been very positive very positive indeed.
The distribution that we're getting is at least as good as we'd hoped as quickly as we'd hoped.
So far so good in the German-speaking countries.
In France and Spain we've just shown it with the retailers and again very very positive reaction and again we are very confident we're going to get very good distribution very quickly.
So they are very good indicators.
The one thing I will say though is that in Europe people claim to prefer firmer bed.
So when we are kind of modeling how we think this is going to -- what share it's going to get we recognize that it's not the same as the U.S.
and it's going to be hard to tell.
All that said though what people say they like to sleep on is not necessarily the same as what they actually end up buying.
So we're learning from it as we go.
But it's too early to say from a sell-through point of view but from an initial reaction it's certainly meeting our expectations.
As far as the consumer pent-up demand is concerned...
Yes let me take a crack at that one.
From a pent-up demand it's hard to completely gauge obviously.
But if you look at run rates for the whole industry prior to the recession you saw run rates for several years in the low 20s if the industry kind of peaked near $25 million units and then it started gradually backing down.
And then obviously in 2008 and 2009 we had dramatic down draft in terms of unit the industry.
Last year we saw an improvement in industry units again based on the ISPA sample we don't have the full industry data.
We saw upper single-digit growth in units last year for the industry but the overall units were still well below what the norm was even taking out the kind of the ramp-up to the peak in 2005.
The industry was running at a 21 million 22 million units a year and it has been well below that for three years now 2008 2009 and even though 2010 was better it's still well below what we would think is a normalized run rate.
So that would tell us that there’s still tremendous pent-up demand out there.
The price point of that demand that’s pent-up is anybody's guess.
But what we're trying to do is pull everybody up to Tempur-Pedic.
We're having success with that.
Great.
And say last question then.
Your consumer seems to be feeling better and opening their wallets.
New products working marketing campaigns are very effective execution's been great.
What's keeping you up at night right now? What would be your leading 1 or 2 concerns looking at the balance of the year? First thing I'll say is nothing keeps us up at night because we sleep on Tempur-Pedic.
Commodities obviously we're focused on commodities.
We're focused on the fact that we're all watching the macro environment particularly in the U.S.
well in Europe and in the U.S both of where we have significant sort of macroeconomic issues that are faced -- the decisions have to be made from everything from debt and taxes and everything.
So that clearly that is one concern.
But beyond that there's no other systemic thing that is keeping us.
So we're in a very competitive industry and we have very good competitors.
And it's going to be necessary for us to continue to perform in order for us to continue to grow.
And we're very conscious of that.
That's all the time we have for today's call and I will turn it back to the company for any closing remarks.
Thank you and thanks everybody for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you again in July when we review the second quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur-Pedic Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And now I'll turn the conference over to Barry Hytinen.
Please begin.
Thanks Tyrone and thank you everyone for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CFO; and Dale Williams Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
After prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company’s expectations regarding sales and earnings involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company’s business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include: economic competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company’s SEC filings including the company’s annual report on Form 10-K under the headings Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Any forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligations to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company’s website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
And now with that introduction it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Barry.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our performance in the second quarter and an update on our strategic focus areas.
Dale will then provide a detailed review of financial results as well as our updated financial guidance.
We are pleased with our second quarter performance both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Sales are up 30% from last year and earnings per share were up 65%.
In the U.S.
and in all the countries where we have reliable data TEMPUR outgrew the industry.
Our market share is growing globally.
Gross margin improved by over 400 basis points year-over-year the result of favorable mix and continued focus on productivity programs and fixed cost leverage.
The gross margin improvement allowed us to maintain our commitment to significant investment in marketing while still expanding operating margin to 24%.
As a result of our strong performance in the first half of 2011 and our expectations for the remainder of the year we are increasing our financial guidance and Dale will provide details later.
Now I'd like to provide updates on our strategic initiatives.
First the progress that we've made to ensure there's a TEMPUR mattress and pillow that appeals to everyone.
In our international markets the Cloud launch is progressing nicely throughout much of Europe and is beginning in Asia and we are receiving very positive feedback both from retailers and consumers.
In the U.S.
we're seeing positive trends in the early days of the Contour rollout which began distribution in June.
Contour is a newly designed line that replaces our TEMPUR Collection for those consumers who prefer the traditional TEMPUR feel.
The Contour is planned to roll out quickly likely complete in advance of the Labor Day shopping period.
Also late in the year we will be increasing the prices of the Contour and the Contour Select.
Also in North America the Cloud Luxe completed its initial distribution and continues to perform very well.
Beyond mattresses we're excited about the potential for our pillow business.
We have integrated the findings of new consumer research into our pillow development.
And at the Las Vegas Bedding Show next week we will introduce a range of new pillows and the redesign of the existing line.
The redesigned products maintain what consumers have always loved about our pillows but improved upon them.
And our new pillows provide a more traditional look and feel and will be available in varying degrees of softness.
I'd also like to comment on our mattress product development pipeline details of which are obviously confidential so I won't a lot of detail.
But I would like to read a brief update to our investors.
Through our ongoing consumer research we've identified several large market segments where our existing product lines does not fully address certain consumer needs and wants.
And we focus our R&amp;D team against these opportunities.
Across a range of different initiatives product development is in varying stages with some efforts well developed and in the final stages of consumer testing and commercialization and some still in the laboratory phase.
As we look into 2012 and beyond we expect to introduce several new concepts to drive considerable growth and market share gains.
The next strategic imperative I want to provide a progress update on is making sure everyone knows that they would sleep better on TEMPUR.
In the second quarter we increased our marketing investment by more than 50%.
This increase was both a continuation of our U.S.
initiative which we've been doing for some time now and also our international initiative which we kicked off a few months ago.
Those of you who attended our investor conference last year will remember that we have good levels of distribution in our largest overseas markets comparable with the U.S.
but much lower levels of awareness than we have here in the U.S.
This year we have invested in advertising to raise awareness in these larger markets.
And although it is still quite early we are quite pleased with the response we are seeing.
In those markets where we've made significant increases in advertising our brand awareness is growing and also our web traffic is growing which is an important indicator of awareness and interest.
But most importantly retailers are telling us that consumers are coming to their stores and asking for TEMPUR.
Obviously we're watching this very carefully but early results are promising.
The last initiative I'd like to update you on is making sure that TEMPUR is available to everyone.
This quarter we opened slightly more than 200 doors globally and are currently in the process of opening several new accounts.
In the U.S.
this year we've continued to gain slots with the Cloud rollout.
And in our international markets we have achieved considerable growth in slots.
The Cloud launch is gaining traction overseas and as it rolls out retailers are implementing what we call the collection assortment meaning that they are clearing the portfolio TEMPUR products that includes representative items from each of our 3 international collections: TEMPUR Original TEMPUR Sensation and TEMPUR Cloud.
Finally and also focused on our objective of ensuring that TEMPUR is available to everyone we are pleased to announce that we've converted our third-party distributor in South Korea to a wholly-owned subsidiary at the beginning of July.
South Korea is a strategic market where we see potential for growth over many years.
To summarize we had a great quarter and a great first half of 2011 and we confidently expect that 2011 will be a record year.
But we continue to take the long view.
We see enormous potential for our company in the years to come and so we will continue to invest in building consumer awareness of the TEMPUR brand and in technology and innovative new products as we strive to fulfill our ambition to become the world's favorite mattress and pillow brand.
With that I'll now hand over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the second quarter financial results and our updated 2011 guidance.
In total second quarter net sales were $342 million an increase of 30%.
On a constant currency basis sales were up 25%.
North American sales increased 29% and international sales were up 34%.
On a constant currency basis our international sales increased 18% reflecting the positive trends Mark referenced relating to investments in marketing and new products.
By channel in North American retail net sales were $227 million an increase of 31%.
Internationally retail sales were up 35% to $72 million.
On a product basis mattresses were up 30% driven by 19% increase in units.
North American mattress sales increased 28% on a 20% increase in units.
The increased average in selling price reflects favorable price and mix partially offset by our close out and increased floor model discounts.
In the International segment mattress sales increased 37%.
On a constant-currency basis international mattress sales were up 20%.
International mattress units increased 16%.
In total pillows were up 25% driven by a 16% increase in units.
North American pillow sales increased 19% on unit growth of 18%.
International pillow sales were up 31% on a 14% volume increase.
On a constant-currency basis pillows sales internationally increased by 15%.
Sales of our other product category which includes items that are normally sold along with the mattress were up 34%.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.9% up 420 basis points year-on-year and 60 basis points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis the gross margin improvement related to a variety of factors including favorable mix our ongoing productivity programs generated improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution and fixed cost leverage related to higher production volumes.
Partially offsetting these benefits were higher commodity costs and new product launches.
On a sequential basis the improvement in gross margin is primarily driven by favorable mix and productivity offset by higher commodity costs and new product launches.
Looking at operating expenses we increased our advertising investment by 150 basis points reflecting our commitment to ensure everybody knows they would sleep better on TEMPUR.
Second quarter G&amp;A expenses include 2 items I'd like to address.
First we benefited from the settlement of certain tax items.
This benefit was largely offset by a second item as we've mentioned before the majority of our long-term equity incentive compensation is variable and aligned with our financial performance.
As a result of our strong 2011 performance year-to-date and our outlook we have increased the 2010 plan to the maximum target.
In the second quarter we recorded a significant expense to catch up to this level and will be accruing at a higher rate going forward.
Our operating margins expanded 370 basis points to 24.2%.
Interest expense was $2.6 million.
Net income was $53.1 million up from $33.5 million last year.
EPS was $0.76 up from $0.46 last year.
Now I'll turn to the balance sheet for a brief review.
Receivables were up reflecting higher sales while our DSOs were down approximately 2 days from the second quarter of last year and flat sequentially.
Inventory was up $15 million or 7 days sequentially as planned to support the rollouts of the Contour in the U.S.
and the Cloud internationally.
As Mark mentioned we expect the Contour to be a fast launch with distribution complete by Labor Day.
With that we anticipate our inventory days to normalize in the second half.
Let me address the increase in other nonrecurring assets.
The change reflects deferred financing cost in conjunction with our newly amended credit facility which I will discuss shortly.
Turning to our buyback.
Through open market purchases we bought back 1 million -- 1.59 million shares during the quarter at an average price of $61.19 for a total cost of $97.5 million.
During the first half of 2011 we bought back 2.91 million shares at an average price of $54.92 for a total cost of $160 million.
Our funded debt-to-EBITDA ratio increased modestly to 1.38x reflecting debt deployed to purchase stock.
As we've said before our target level ratio is 1.5x to 2x versus our debt covenant of 3x.
We recently amended our credit facility with changes including an extension through June 2016 an increase in availability to $770 million an accordion feature that would increase borrowing capacity by an additional $250 million and increased interest margin reflecting market conditions.
As a favorable outlook for sustained sales growth expanding margins and strong cash flow generation combined with low capital needs we continue to view share repurchases as the best way to return value to shareholders.
So we are pleased to announce that our board has authorized a new repurchase program of up to $200 million which replaces the previous authorization.
Now I'd like to address our updated guidance for the full year.
With our new outlook we are balancing our strong results to the first half while acknowledging the macroeconomic environment as still unclear.
And these 3 conditions remain choppy and our retail customers continue to report that traffic is variable.
So we think it is prudent to project the remainder of the year in a manner reflecting a level of uncertainty.
We currently expect net sales to range from $1 370 000 000 to $1 400 000 000.
And we currently expect EPS to range from $3.7 to $3.14 per diluted share.
We expect our gross margin to be approximately 250 basis points higher for the full year driven by favorable mix ongoing productivity programs and fixed cost leverage partially offset by higher commodity costs.
We expect interest expense for the full year to be approximately $12 million.
This projection includes the changes to our interest margin cost in our amended facility.
And we anticipate the full year tax rate to be 33.5%.
We are lowering our share count projection to $70 million for the full year which includes the net benefit of our repurchase activity  through the second quarter.
However it does not assume benefit from the potential of our further reduction and shares outstanding.
As a reminder repurchases made in the second half would have less benefit on the full year given their weighted average impact.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the companies control.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And at this point operator we'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Want to just first ask about the Cloud launch internationally.
Mark you mentioned that it was progressing nicely.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color in terms of what you were seeing in terms of slot growth in the markets that you've rolled out the product and what level of sales lift you've seen in those markets? I mean we are generally getting not quite.
Yes 2 slots extra from the rollout of the Cloud.
So with the 3 products we're getting generally 2 new slots.
And we're getting -- it's still early so it's hard to tell exactly what is the level of incremental.
But frankly it looks pretty good.
It looks very similar to what we saw in the U.S.
The relative proportion of business that's coming from the Cloud and from the old products is comparable to what we saw with the Cloud here.
And that's at something of the order of 50% incremental 50% or 60% incremental.
It's too early to say if that's absolutely going to be the case but that's what we are seeing so far.
And then in addition to the slot growth are you seeing a similar lift in terms of your sales in the stores that have had Cloud added in them? Well yes as I said we're getting the additional slots and the sales we're getting from that are driving incremental sales.
And the answer is yes.
Yes we are getting incremental sales.
Great.
And then just a follow-up on the outlook for your input cost.
Last quarter when you gave guidance for oil was it $115 a barrel and have been trending in an upward direction.
We're now lower than that and it hopefully seems to be a little bit more of a benign outlook and you're closer to the point where you would have an idea of what your chemical could cost to the end of the year.
What's your expectations at this point for raw materials? Well actually our outlook for raw materials hasn't changed much.
Our third quarter raw materials are basically locked-in at this point.
There's always a slight delay on the upside on the pricing.
So the price increases that we got kind of late in the quarter were what we were expecting to get.
So as we sit here today if oil continues to stay at the more moderate level we would hope to possibly see some benefit later in the year but we haven't seen any downward pressure yet or downward opportunity yet on chemical pricing.
So our outlook for that has not changed.
We did -- we were able to delay it a little bit so we had a little less impact in the second quarter on chemicals than we were expecting.
But those chemical prices are in place now.
Certainly we'll work every day to try to knock them back down if oil stays with -- in a more moderate level.
But it's not always -- as we've often said our chemical prices are not always moving directly with oil.
Our next question is from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Mark Dale and Barry this is actually Chad pinch hitting for Budd.
First question Mark I think in your commentary you alluded to obviously market share gains in the U.S.
as well as internationally.
I mean we have a pretty good feel for what the overall market is doing here in the U.S.
but could you give us a sense for how you're up 18% in local currency compares to the overall market or at least some of the key overall markets that you're rolling out Cloud in? If you look across the markets a lot of major markets quite frankly most of them are flat or down.
And if you look at Germany the U.K.
certainly France it's sort of -- it is a very tough environment out there.
In Spain it really is tough.
And we're doing -- we're doing quite well compared to an industry that is really not doing very well.
Obviously the whole economy in Europe is suffering.
Our other businesses in Japan and in Australia there too while not as terrible as it is in Europe.
There's weak environment and we're doing better.
In fact in Japan it's really quite bad.
So I would say that the compare if you look at how we're doing relative to the U.S.
here at least there is some growth in the industry and the rest of the world where we're competing there is little or none or negative.
Okay.
And I guess turning back to the U.S.
you alluded to kind of a choppy macro environment and commentary from retailers that traffic has gotten more variable.
Have you seen any signs of slowing? Can you give us a sense of how things progressed through the quarter? What business trends look like in early July? Let me start and then I think Dale's got a bit more detail.
But let me just give you a top line on this.
The second half of the quarter we saw a little bit of strengthening relative to the first half of the quarter.
So it kind of got better.
But I think the point is you picked up on this is quite right which is there has been a choppiness.
Retailers are saying that literally from day to day they'll have a good day and then a bad day.
They'll have a good weekend and then a bad weekend.
And we've heard this from retailers across the country and we see it from our results.
It's sort of choppy is the right word.
And while -- so far this quarter trends are consistent with what we've been seeing.
We continue to see the choppiness.
So I don't know Dale is there anything you want to add? No I think that's -- that covers it.
Okay.
And the last one for me I guess within the U.S.
could you tell us what the U.S.
furniture and bedding sales were during the quarter and is there any variance between what you're seeing from full-line furniture stores versus bedding specialists? The furniture and bedding sales in the quarter were 212.6.
And in terms of bedding specialists versus furniture we've seen strength on both sides.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Mark Rupe of Longbow Research.
Just on the rollout of the Cloud international I know you commented kind of maybe from a macro level or from a higher level but is there any kind of learnings that you found on kind of on a market-by-market basis as you've rolled this out.
I know that each of the markets are very different but is there anything that kind of surprise you one way or another on the Cloud rollout? You're quite right to say that each of the markets are different.
That is true and I think that there are different sort of variety of reasons.
One is the fundamental reasons the difference is because almost without exception every country has a unique retail environment so that the German retail environment is not totally the same as the French and not at all the same as the U.K.
and so on.
So that how we -- the method that it rolls out and the challenges and so on are different by every country and we've had to customize how we've launched within each country.
What is interesting is that obviously the Cloud bed is a TEMPUR bed that has a softer initial feel.
And we had expected a greater degree of variability and how appealing that would be in different countries.
A lot of country -- people perceive that some countries prefer to sleep on firmer beds than others for example.
And we found a lot less variability in that than we had thought.
So what people profess to like the best and what they actually like the best is [indiscernible] -- what they actually like is more consistent across the countries.
There are some outliers.
China was different.
But fundamentally across the main European countries there's more consistency in consumers' preference than I would have guessed.
Okay perfect.
And then on the media spend I know you cited a fairly significant increase was that weighted a lot more towards internationally? Is there a number you can point there? Yes our overall media spend in the U.S.
we saw a media spend increase about 43% on a year-over-year basis internationally we increased that 84%.
So like we said we're investing internationally.
How much -- [indiscernible] we invested in the U.S.
Yes I mean the total media spend for the quarter was right about $36 million.
And that was about $10 million in international and the balance in the U.S.
So it's a -- we've stepped up investment here as well as internationally and we're seeing very positive results from that actually in both segments.
That's perfect.
And then you called out a price increase on the Contour and the Contour Select.
Correct me if I'm wrong but is that incremental to what you had previously thought on rolling them out when you rolled it out? We haven't communicated it before but we've always anticipated doing it.
It was -- we introduced -- the prices that we introduced were essentially to be consistent with the products that they were replacing.
Now that that replacement has essentially orbit through we're going to make sure that the products are priced comparably with the other lines and most notably the Cloud.
Okay perfect.
And then just lastly you called out some new concepts you're looking at for 2012.
Without going out into details did you mention that it was across all product offerings and all regions? Or is there one particular area that you see might have the most meaningful I guess hole to fill if you will? I don't want to go into great details.
First of all I don't want to go into great details for obvious reasons.
But secondly it is a broad brush.
A it is broad; and B it is not a single thing.
.
Our next question is from John Baugh of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was just curious on the Contour rollout and the impact it had on Q2 whether that's -- if you could quantify that and will the impact be lower in Q3 than Q2? We've got about 40% to 45% of the rollout of the Contour done in Q2.
So a little bit higher rollout in Q3.
However the overall impact of the program will be moderate a little bit because obviously in Q2 on top of the roll out you also had the discontinuance of the old TEMPUR line so you had the closeout going on.
Now it spilled over a little bit into July and certainly you can still find that while supplies last but we're basically out of those now.
So from an overall standpoint Q3 we'll see a little bit more impact of Contour rollout but a little less impact from the closeout.
However as I stated before chemicals are going to be up.
So I wouldn't be looking for a big growth in gross margins here in Q3.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- Dale on the compensation you mentioned that in Q2 it's spiking.
Does that catch you up for the whole year? How do we think about modeling Q3 and Q4 year-over-year from that line item? Basically on the 2010 old tip [ph] program by stepping up to the max payout the charge we took in 2Q which you'll find in the Q and it's published tomorrow was about $1.8 million.
However that gets us current through the second quarter.
From catch up for 2010 and the first of 2011 we would see on an ongoing increase in the accrual rate on that particular program of about $300 000 a quarter.
Our next question is from Bob Drbul of Barclays.
Couple of questions I have for you.
First on the international side can you talk a little bit about the extra club how you're doing internationally some of the sort of historical products? Well I mean the growth is coming from the Cloud or part of the growth is coming from the Cloud.
But by no means all of it.
And a lot of the growth that will be coming we're -- well we are attributing a great deal of the growth that we're getting which will by nature comes from what you're calling historic business is driven by the advertising.
So we're actually seeing quite good growth in our older products as well as the Cloud.
Yes I think it's important to remember Bob that the Cloud rollout is still progressing.
We got it into the Germanic regions right at the end of the first quarter.
So in the second quarter those were the primary countries Germany Austria Switzerland Benelux.
Those were the primary countries selling the Cloud.
As the quarter progressed we got it into kind of Southern Europe Spain France Italy but not a lot of impact from those countries in the second quarter.
Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about in terms of the gross margins within the third quarter from a mix perspective when you look at what you guys just delivered in terms of gross margin and the mix benefit should there be much of a change for the rest of the year on mix? Well there's a slight change because as we get past the rollout of the Contour the margin on the Contour is a little better than what it's replacing.
The Cloud Luxe continues to perform very well.
That's the 2 primary mix drivers that we'll see in the back half.
But beyond that not a huge change in mix.
And are you seeing any price resistance through any portion of the portfolio over the year on the price increases? No.
I mean no we haven't yet.
No.
Our next question is from Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
First question just a quick one we've not fully anniversaried the Cloud launch in the U.S.
correct? The Cloud Supreme was launched in the fourth quarter of '09.
The base Cloud was launched in the first quarter of 2010 so that's been fully anniversaried.
The Luxe though is launched late third quarter early fourth quarter of 2010 so we haven't anniversaried the Luxe yet.
Okay perfect.
And then in terms of the pockets of opportunity that I think Mark referred to earlier and I understand he doesn't want to go into too much detail there.
But sort of a longer-term question is that all in bedding or are there other opportunities for the TEMPUR material beyond just mattresses and pillows for example? There are opportunities for the TEMPUR material we are in bedding.
But frankly there's opportunities in bedding and that's where we're focused first.
We still have a very small unit share.
And so we see enormous potential for growth within the bedding industry and that is where our focus is.
Okay got it.
And just one last one.
In terms of the new product launch scheduled for 2012 would those be incremental to your existing SKUs or would they be replacing older lines? I'm not going to go into details at this stage.
Okay okay.
And actually I lied just one more if I could.
Most of the growth recently has come slots or new slots as well as higher priced products.
Your door growth obviously has slowed in recent years.
Is there a thought to reaccelerating door growth? Or are we going to continue to see additional slot as the key driver of that? If I may I would -- I mean while what you say is true that slots are growing we think of it another way.
We think of what percentage of the consumers are coming over.
And the reason that the slots grow is because the retailer is justified to carry additional products additional TEMPUR products because an appropriate proportion of their sales come from that range.
But what that means is we're getting more consumers to buy our products.
And so the question really or what we think about it is what proportion or what targets of consumers are we not yet meeting the needs of? So I would say that yes there's likely to be more slot growth but I would say that the productivity per slot is still something we're very proud of [ph].
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Jon Andersen of William Blair.
I was just wondering if you could refresh my memory on the geographic mix.
Are your margins higher outside North America than inside North America and as the international business presumably the growth rate accelerates or we saw it began to accelerate in the second quarter does that become a favorable driver of gross margin as well? Yes Jon just a quick recap.
Internationally our gross margins are higher than they are in the U.S.
And operationally they're -- it varies a little bit quarter-to-quarter.
But they're 68 to 100 basis points higher internationally from an operational standpoint.
Now that's driven by 2 things like most consumer product companies our price is a little bit higher internationally.
The other thing that drives that is the products themselves.
As we've often said people in the U.S.
like big thick fat  mattresses.
People internationally don't.
So for even a comparably priced mattress it might be -- it's likely to be thinner in the international markets therefore less material in it.
So we have kind of nice combination there internationally where we've got pulled with higher pricing as well as a little bit lower cost because there's less material in the product.
So as the international business growth rate picks up obviously we're still in a position where the U.S.
growth rate on a constant-currency basis is growing faster so right now we're really experiencing negative mix.
But should the day come when the day comes that the international growth rate starts exceeding the U.S.
growth rate that would be an additional benefit to overall company margin.
That's helpful.
And where are you currently in terms of capacity utilization? I think last time I heard in the low 40s.
And any update on kind of the progress against the multiyear kind of cost savings or productivity program would be helpful.
From a capacity standpoint we're still I would say in the mid-40s.
I don't have an exact number in front of me.
But that feels right based on where we're tracking and the volume growth we've seen.
On the overall productivity program as I said that's been a key driver of our gross margin growth the productivity initiatives cover  a gamut of areas it's not just -- we're not talking here of just labor productivity we're talking machine productivity we're talking throughput productivity.
A key driver is yields.
You start with a certain poundage of chemicals and how much good product you get out the back.
And then we've made tremendous progress over the last several years in terms of improving yields.
And then it also invokes the whole supply chain in terms of getting more efficient distribution network in terms of getting more efficient purchasing.
So the productivity program has been a tremendous boost to the business from a cost management standpoint and gross margin improvement standpoint.
And it's got a long way to go.
It's now -- originally it was set up as a 4-year program.
Well the program is not ending anytime soon.
It's now part of the fabric and framework of the business.
Okay.
And on the Ergo adjustable base I think you began some advertising for the first time earlier this year.
I think you've garnered some incremental distribution and done some training in-store.
Are you continuing to see positive progression in terms of the attach rates there? And how would you kind of characterize the opportunity there going forward? Yes and it is the focus.
And we did the advertising and we are focusing our training particularly for the retail sales the people who are in the sales teams and then the retailers.
And it's paying dividends.
Consumers are increasingly buying adjustable bases our Ergo bases with the Tempur-Pedic beds.
And it's one of these things where our consumers are -- we have very very high satisfaction rates with -- consumer satisfaction rate of people who buy our beds.
But people who buy our beds with an adjustable base have in fact even higher satisfaction rates and they're very satisfied with the bases.
So these adjustable bases are very powerful thing for the consumer.
But there are also obviously a good thing for the retailers and for us in terms of increasing the value of the customer.
And so we are focused on it and it continues to grow and it is something that has been important in the first half and will continue to be.
Perfect.
One last one if I could.
Mark I think you mentioned Cloud beginning to roll out in Asia.
I just wanted to make sure I heard that right then and if there's any color you can provide us there in terms of your update to your China plan so it would be helpful.
No it isn't.
It's rolling out in Asia.
It's in Japan and it's in Australia and it's in China too.
So it is rolling out there and it is doing well.
So it's at as early of the stage as it is in the rest of Europe but it's so far so good.
Our next question is from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
My first question is how much higher are the anticipated margins on your new and redesigned pillows versus the current company average? Well compared to our current pillows the new pillows are in the same ballpark as what we currently have on pillows.
Pillows are our highest margin product category.
So hardly much better than that but they're in the same ballpark as what we're currently getting on pillows.
And as you guys look at your overall product suite is there any anticipation that with this new pillow product pillows as a percent of total sales could actually pick up? Or is there enough product and pricing changes that from a sales perspective you guys won't expect much of a change? Pillows are an important thing for us for several reasons.
One because people love our pillows.
And two as Dale said they're a good -- they are high-margin products.
But one of the things that's particularly good about pillows is that people who own a Tempur-Pedic pillow are much more likely to buy a Tempur-Pedic mattress.
So we see them as a very good seeding tool from our marketing point of view.
So we're keen to get the number of people who have Tempur-Pedic pillows to grow.
And that is part of what the initiative that we'll be launching in Vegas next week is.
It's to broaden the range maintain the margins but broaden the range to appeal to a wider range of people so that we can get -- so obviously we can sell more but also so we can continue to see people's affiliation with Tempur-Pedic.
So it will grow.
It is our expectation that it will grow as a percentage.
But I wouldn't see that that's going to change the dynamics of the business on its own.
It's not something that's going to change the models in the near term.
That's very clear.
Two more of very quick ones.
One on commodity costs in the first half could you just quantify how much your total commodity cost that was up first half of 2011 versus first half of 2010? Yes in the first half commodity costs were up in the mid to upper single digits.
And on our last call I said for the year we're expecting it to be up in the low double digits for the full year.
So obviously that's expecting increase much higher commodity cost in the back half.
And as I said earlier we've seen those commodity cost come in but we're also hopeful but not expecting.
But we will be working diligently to try to improve that.
Since oil has moderated a little bit it seems to have stabilized a little bit.
Last question is there any way you could actually quantify the impact of the TEMPUR product model close out in the quarter? Not a lot.
There is some minor discount that was shared between us and the retailers.
But it wasn't a big impact on the quarter.
Our next question is from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Just one question.
You were speaking earlier about other product or other areas to address the product.
Given your focus internationally are we going to the next several years to see more international-only products? Or is it going to be kind of a global approach of what you introduce? In general we are becoming -- it is going to be a more global approach for the simple reason that we want to make sure that our R&amp;D people are focused against things which have the biggest bang for the buck.
So there are a lot of things that we can -- are looking at.
I'm assuming we're going to put our primary emphasis on those things that have the widest application.
So that's the first truth.
There are as I said in my comments there are -- the collection in Europe is slightly different than the collection in the U.S.
Overtime I anticipate these will become more similar.
But it is not something we're going to rush to do.
Right now we have good business models a good range of products in both areas.
But for the future in the longer run I see it becoming more -- coming together more.
Inc.</strong> And one other one.
Historically you've really gone down to the low end of the industry in the United States in terms of the price of products.
Has that view changed at all? Obviously [indiscernible] from time to time and we've always said that the premium part of the domestic industry is where we're always focused and it is still a very big part.
And we still have a relatively small share.
So we see enormous opportunity in the premium mattress in the U.S.
and the same is true in the rest of the world.
So really that hasn't changed.
Our next question is from Rob Straus of Gilford Securities.
Just a couple of questions here a lot has been asked already.
Dale to start I just want a quick number.
On the R&amp;D spend in the quarter what was that? I don't have that right in front of me hang on one -- ask your second question.
I'll come back.
Okay that's fine.
And Mark there was a question earlier asked about the Cloud rollout into Asia.
I recall if correct your expectations for your Cloud rollout in Europe was a little bit different than that in the U.S.
So I would ask what is your Cloud expectation rollout for Asia as compared to your experiences in both now Europe and the U.S.? Asia is obviously a very broad thing.
Australia I would say is essentially similar to the U.S.
I mean it's not exactly -- for any Australians on the phone I apologize.
But my point is in broad terms as a market our sales in Australia are very comparable in terms of their mix to what they are in America.
Japan is obviously a different market.
Obviously a lot of people in Japan sleep on futons till this day I mean a very large proportion.
So our sales are quite different in Japan much of a greater proportion of pillows and so on.
However -- well the Cloud is being well accepted.
So far it's very early but I see it's doing quite well.
In China it's a bit different.
The people there sleep on very different things.
So the Cloud is there and doing okay.
I anticipate at this very early stage that it's not going to be as big of a business there as our base business but it's too early to say.
But if you ask me right this minute that's the perception at this moment.
And Rob on R&amp;D for the quarter R&amp;D was $2.6 million.
And Mark I guess that kind of leads me to the next question just to kind of understand Europe a little bit more.
When you consider what you're doing behind the scenes in your R&amp;D program what are you kind of thinking about when it comes to Asia and all of those different consumer preferences that you just described? And I guess I'm still thinking primarily product segment-wise mattresses and pillows not beyond that.
We as I said to an earlier question we are obviously focused on those things given that we have limited resources and we want to focus on the things that have the biggest bang for the buck.
We're going to be biased to what things that can be applied broadly across the globe.
There are examples of things and things that we do have on our docket again I won't get into the detail which have particular focus in some areas of the world.
And if -- that may well -- from time to time that may make sense.
But I think the biggest learning that we've all had over the last few years is that there's more similarity than there is difference.
And so that there's more value here in focusing on those things that we can do generally especially when it comes to developing new technologies than there is for doing things that are country-specific.
And then I guess one of the previous comments I think that you had stated was regarding some survey work or maybe as focus groups and maybe it was in relation to the Cloud rollout in Europe where you said something like what people thought that they've liked didn't necessarily come true when they actually purchased a mattress.
And thus I think the Cloud has outperformed even your expectations in Europe.
When you think about that experience if I have that right and you continue to do your focused work and your focus group work and your surveys how do you then consider how consumers are responding to these surveys if you know there's a little bit of movement in opinion versus what they actually would like? It's an interesting -- you're right and you did remember right.
The fundamental breakdown is if you ask people they use words to describe what they would like.
Because some people -- and particularly in the U.S.
they would say they love a bed that is soft and embracing that they really feel wrapped around by almost hugged by.
In Europe people will say I don't want a bed like that at all.
I want a firm bed.
So if they're using words they describe a bed in a way that is what they think they like.
But if you -- and we do this all the time now if you put a sheet over a bed and ask people to lie on it and say rank that on points of out 10 their scores are very different to what they've said in words.
And so what we increasingly do now with our testing is to not ask people in words.
We conduct extensive research now where we have beds all covered with white sheets.
And we have large groups of people testing them and then ranking them up on a rating.
And then asking them what they think they like and then trying to correlate what people say they think and what they actually like.
And we're enhancing that by actually getting sensory work done by people who are trained in this who can actually systematically describe the difference in how beds feel.
It's actually a more complicated problem than you would guess.
But in any case it is something we're very dedicated to.
And what we are not doing is taking it first blush to what people say they prefer.
And just last question regarding the new pillow rollout that you're going to have at the Las Vegas show is that rollout going to be kind of stepped through countries? Or is that going to sort of go globally and blanket the world? Initially that's going to be a U.S.-focused launch.
The thing that we're going to show in Vegas -- remember there are trade shows around the world.
The Vegas one is an American one.
And this product line is initially focused on the U.S.
Our next question is from Joan Storms of Wedbush Securities.
Just a couple of quick questions.
On the marketing obviously your campaign in the U.S.
is built upon ask me and then some work with more specific products including the Cloud and then the Ergo.
So I was wondering if you could give us any hints on where the evolution of that marketing campaign may be going or where you may be looking at going forward? Well first of all we do at this stage intend to evolve that campaign.
So we like that campaign.
It's doing very well for us.
It really captures the core message that we want to communicate which is that we're encouraging people to ask other people to ask on the web about Tempur-Pedic because obviously the recommendations that they always see is one of our core assets.
We are in fact -- we are in fact creating new spots.
And frankly I don't want to share them.
Forgive me but I just don't want to share them with you right now.
We are -- but they're going to be tied to some of our focus areas for promotions and so on in the fourth quarter.
So forgive me but I don't want to share them right now.
Okay.
And then just a housekeeping question if you don't have it now we can talk offline.
But just on the 200 doors with most of those being international can you break down like how many opened in the first half and then I can figure out the second half? Joan you've heard that slightly differently I think.
We opened about 50 in the quarter internationally and the rest were in the North American segments.
So it's 200 in the quarter.
Yes.
Okay okay.
And so for the year? Projections? Projections we generally don't give projections on doors Joan from a standpoint of because it's so fact- and circumstances-determined.
But yes Mark mentioned we're in the process of opening some additional accounts and we cannot update that on a quarterly basis.
Our next question is from Eric Hollowaty of Stephens Inc.
Dale can you help us think about growth rates in North America versus International going forward? And is it likely that we could see International segment sales growth in percentage terms outpace North America by perhaps the end of this year? Or how should we think about that? What we said at the start of the year and really we haven't changed that outlook was that we expected in the first -- for the year the U.S.
would grow faster than international would for the year.
But we expected the international growth rate to improve and ramp throughout the year because of payback on the marketing investments that we're making and with the launch and rollout of the Cloud and it gets to more and more markets and has more impact.
So our expectation was that we would see an increasing growth rate in the international business but for the year this year we're looking for the U.S.
business to still outgrow the international business.
In the future beyond this year yes we would love to see the international business continue to see a ramp in its growth rate and we think long-term that potential is that we could start to see a gradual shift back in terms of balance of revenue.
Right now we're running about 70% U.S.
or North America and 30% international.
Not too many years ago it was more 2/3 1/3.
And when I came to the company 8 years ago it was almost 50/50.
So over the long long term we would expect international with some of the market opportunities that are out there and some of the emerging markets to outpace the U.S.
business in latter years.
This ends the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I would like to turn the conference over to the company for any closing remarks.
Thanks everybody and we look forward to talking with you again in October when we'll review the third quarter.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Tempur-Pedic Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Now I'll turn the call over to Barry Hytinen Senior Vice President.
Please begin.
Thanks Tyrone and thank you to everyone joining us on today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams Executive Vice President and CFO.
After prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company’s expectations regarding sales and earnings involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include: economic competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including the company's annual report on Form 10-K under the headings Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
Now with that introduction it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Barry.
Good evening everybody and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our performance in the third quarter and an update on our strategic focus areas.
Dale will then provide a detailed review of the financial results as well as our updated financial guidance.
We're pleased with our third quarter performance globally.
Sales were up 30% from last year and earnings per share were up 45%.
Tempur continues to gain market share both in the U.S.
and internationally primarily as a result of our strategic investments in new products and brand advertising.
Gross margin improved 140 basis points year-over-year a result of our productivity programs favorable mix and fixed cost leverage.
And the improvement in gross margin allowed us to maintain our commitment to significantly invest in marketing while still expanding operating margin 220 basis points to 25.2%.
Having said that our gross margin in the third quarter was lower than in the second quarter and Dale will provide more details on that when he talks about our financial results.
Now I'd like to provide an update on our strategic initiative.
Firstly our commitment to ensure that there is a TEMPUR mattress and pillow that appeals to everyone.
In our international markets the Cloud launch is progressing very well.
The line is now in distribution in all markets with the U.K.
being the last major geography to start shipping.
Retailer and consumer feedback remain very positive and we believe the Cloud Collection is highly incremental.
We anticipate that our Cloud business will be an important contributor to our international markets' overall growth during 2012.
In the U.S.
our rollout of the Contour Collection was completed on schedule in advance of the Labor Day shopping period.
This line is designed for those consumers with a preference for the original TEMPUR feel and offers an improved product with a broader differentiation within the line compared to the products it replaces.
Again we're very pleased with the response that this line has received both from retailers and consumers.
Additionally in the U.S.
we showcased our new Traditional Pillow line in August at the Las Vegas Bedding Show and began shipping this quarter.
These new pillows supplement the very popular iconic TEMPUR-molded pillows.
These are filled pillows designed to appeal to consumers who prefer a more traditional pillow one that is more huggable.
A broader range is a key component of our strategy to ensure greater distribution for our pillow products.
Lastly from a new product perspective as I mentioned on our second quarter call we have several new product concepts in various stages of development.
Over the coming 12 to 24 months we will introduce exciting new products that we anticipate will drive considerable growth and market share gains in the premium space by meeting the needs of large consumer segments that we currently do not address.
These new products cut across all of our lines and geographies.
We're in the final stage of development for a new line we expect to introduce in January at the Las Vegas show that we're very excited about and we look forward to showing it to many of you in person.
As our investors understand due to the competitive nature of future product introductions we'll make no further comments on this topic during the call.
The next strategic imperative is making sure that everyone knows that they will sleep better on a TEMPUR.
In the third quarter we increased our marketing by over 55% to nearly $40 million enabling us to build the TEMPUR brand and increase awareness of the breadth of our product range.
In the U.S.
our investment in marketing is paying off well.
The Ask Me campaign continues to expand most recently with the message that a Tempur-Pedic is available for a range of consumer preferences from soft to firm and everything in-between.
We tested increased levels of advertising in 29 of our key markets and there we saw an appreciable step up in sale in those markets.
And we expect this -- we expect to expand this test during 2012.
The North America business as a whole experienced 19% growth in mattress units which we are confident is largely due to the effectiveness of our advertising.
We're also pleased with the return on marketing investment in our international markets.
As a reminder in 2011 we're implementing a strategic investment in advertising to raise awareness in several of our largest international markets concentrated in the U.K.
Germany and France with additional investments in several smaller markets.
We have seen an unambiguous lift in sales volume in those markets and our retailers are enthusiastic about the consumer response.
In addition we're able to monitor the effectiveness of advertising by tracking web traffic during periods that we are on the air and again we have seen a significant lift as a result of the investment.
Last I would like to update investors on our goal of making sure that TEMPUR is available to everyone.
This quarter we opened approximately 150 doors of which roughly half were in the U.S.
And throughout 2011 we have gained spots with both the Cloud rollout in our international markets and with the Contour rollout in the U.S.
So in closing we had a strong third quarter in a macro environment that remains challenging both in the U.S.
and internationally.
The mattress industry as a whole is significantly below historic norms is growing very slowly in most geographies and not at all in others.
Nonetheless we project significant growth for Tempur-Pedic in the fourth quarter and in the years ahead.
We will continue to invest in technology in product innovations and in building consumer awareness of the TEMPUR brand.
We remain committed to becoming the world's favorite mattress and pillow brand.
With that I'll hand it over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the third quarter financial results.
In total third quarter net sales were $383 million an increase of 30%.
On a constant-currency basis sales were up 26%.
North American sales increased 30% and international sales were up 28%.
On a constant-currency basis our international sales increased 15% reflecting the positive response to investments in marketing and new products.
By channel in North American retail net sales were $257 million an increase of 30%.
Internationally retail sales were up 37% to $86 million.
On a product basis total mattress sales were up 28% driven by an 18% increase in units.
North American mattress sales increased 28% on a 19% increase in units.
The increased average unit selling price reflects favorable price and mix partially offset by increased floor model discounts.
In the International segment mattress sales increased 31%.
On a constant-currency basis international mattress sales were up 18% and mattress units increased 16%.
In total pillows were up 12% driven by a 3% increase in units.
North American pillow sales increased 5% on a unit growth of 2%.
International pillow sales were up 21% on a 5% volume increase.
On a constant-currency basis international pillow sales increased by 9%.
Sales of our other product category which includes items that are normally sold along with the mattress were up 42% reflecting continued improvements on Ergo attach rates in the U.S.
Gross margins for the quarter was 52.4% up 140 basis points year-on-year but down 50 basis points sequentially.
I am disappointed the margin rate was not up more.
However the reasons behind this are mostly transitory.
While the underlying trends in our margin continue to be strong in the third quarter we made some strategic investments which lowered our overall gross margin.
These investments include an IT system upgrade at our European manufacturing facility new product launches and a program that provides an opportunity for sales associates to purchase their own TEMPUR sleep system.
All of these are supportive of long-term growth plans and provide a foundation for future growth.
At the same time we are experiencing unprecedented levels of demand for our new product launches internationally.
This demand in combination with some productivity issues arising from the upgrade resulted in unacceptably low levels of inventories in some international markets.
So rather than risk extensive back orders and further impact to customer service we began shipping products from the U.S.
to Europe and incurred incremental shipping costs.
Despite this support from the U.S.
plants and a significant improvement in productivity by the end of the quarter our international business ended the third quarter with a record backlog.
So to ensure the best possible levels of customer service we will continue shipping to Europe in the fourth quarter.
Now let me give you a breakdown of the key drivers of our gross margin.
On a year-over-year basis gross margin improvement related to our ongoing productivity programs generating improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution favorable mix and fixed cost leverage related to higher production volumes.
Partially offsetting these benefits were higher commodity costs and floor model discounts related to new product introductions.
On a sequential basis the modest decline in gross margin resulted from the impact of productivity issues related to the Danish manufacturing facility higher commodity costs floor model discounts related to new product launches and the retail sales associate program.
Partially offsetting these items were improvements related to our ongoing productivity programs and fixed cost leverage.
Looking at operating expenses we increased our advertising investment by 170 basis points reflecting our commitment to ensure everyone knows they would sleep better on TEMPUR.
On our sales growth we do have 80 basis points of operating expense leverage despite our increased investment in brand awareness.
Our operating margins expanded by 220 basis points to 25.2%.
Interest expense was $3.3 million.
Net income was $61.9 million up from $44.2 million last year.
EPS was $0.90 up from $0.62 last year.
Now I'll turn to the balance sheet for a brief review.
We generated $75 million of operating cash flow and have $103 million of cash on our balance sheet.
The majority of our cash balance is in our international markets.
Receivables were up reflecting higher sales while our DSOs were down approximately 3 days from the third quarter of last year and flat sequentially.
Inventory decreased 3 days sequentially principally reflecting the completion of the initial distribution of the Contour line in the U.S.
Our inventory days were down considerably more in the international markets especially so for our new products.
Turning to our share repurchase program.
Through open market purchases we bought 1.34 million shares during the quarter at a total cost of $80 million.
During the first 3 quarters of 2011 we bought back 4.25 million shares for a total cost of $240 million.
Our funded debt-to-EBITDA ratio decreased modestly to 1.36x despite an increase in debt outstanding deployed to purchase stock.
As we said before our target leverage ratio is 1.5 to 2x versus our debt covenant of 3x.
We continue to view the share repurchase program as an excellent means to return value to shareholders over the long term.
So we are pleased to announce that our board has expanded our share repurchase authorization by $80 million.
Reflecting the shares we purchased in the third quarter we currently have $200 million available under this authorization.
Now I'd like to address our updated guidance for the full year.
With our new outlook we are balancing strong results through the first 3 quarters of 2011 while continuing to acknowledge the macroeconomic environment remains unclear.
Industry conditions are volatile and retail customers report that traffic is variable.
Therefore we are projecting the end of the year in a manner reflecting this uncertainty.
We currently expect net sales to range from $1 405 000 000 to $1 425 000 000 and we currently expect EPS to range from $3.12 to $3.17 per diluted share.
Regarding our outlook for gross margins in the fourth quarter we anticipate a modest increase on a sequential basis as margins will remain challenged by incremental shipping costs related to rebuilding international inventories and a conservative commodity outlook.
We expect interest expense for the full year to be $13 million.
We anticipate the full year tax rate to be 33.5%.
We are lowering our share count projection to 69.5 million shares for the full year which includes the net benefit from our repurchase activity through the third quarter.
However it does not assume benefit from the potential for a further reduction in shares outstanding.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the companies control.
This concludes our prepared remarks and at this point operator we would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mark Rupe of Longbow Research.
Dale on the gross margin I know you cited the 3 things but obviously there's the one thing that's slowing into the fourth quarter as well.
Is there any kind of framework you can give us that would provide the magnitude of what you were expecting in the third quarter and what this did to the gross margin in the third quarter and then kind of the thought process in the fourth quarter? And then I guess then lastly on that does it get resolved by the end of the fourth quarter? Just to be clear you're talking about the productivity and shipping...
The Danish yes exactly.
Yes let me just put a little context on that.
We upgraded our IT system in Dan-Foam our Danish manufacturing facility.
Our system there was old.
It was several generations behind so it was a major upgrade.
With any major upgrade you have occasionally some hiccups at the start and quite honestly we were very pleased with the new system.
There was absolutely no issues around the new system.
What we saw was the old system had several thousand customizations to it which the new system did not have.
And it primarily affected one element of the manufacturing operation which was the cutting operation.
So that operation became a bottleneck in the factory which impeded the ability temporarily of the factory to produce at a normal rate.
By the end of the quarter that productivity was improved.
We are producing more in the Dan-Foam factory than we'd ever produced before.
We're also because of the growing demand internationally because of the advertising and because of the Cloud though requiring more than we've ever produced in Denmark.
And so we got into a situation of being short on inventories.
We leave the quarter still well short on where we should be from an inventory standpoint to support the customer service levels that our customers have come to expect from us.
So in the third quarter the cost of the temporary productivity shortage in Dan-Foam and the cost of shipping product from the U.S.
to Europe cost us approximately $2 million.
In the fourth quarter we're actually expecting that to cost us between $3 million and $4 million.
Now we do sitting here today think everything's going to be back to normal by the end of the quarter.
In fact as I said Dan-Foam today is producing at record levels.
But we need to still ship from the U.S.
and actually ship a little bit more from the U.S.
than we did in the third quarter to be able to fulfill the backlog and to get the inventories to where we can have the proper service levels with our customers.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Okay.
So the other puts and take on the margin from 3Q to 4Q the product rollout stuff is that by and large behind us with the exception of maybe the U.K.? Yes.
Our next question is from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Campbell filling in for Brad this evening.
You mentioned some nice doors door growth and slots growth.
I was wondering you guys have obviously been pretty popular lately.
Is there anything you've done to change maybe your training or how you're really gaining a lot of these slots or the salesperson awareness of your mattresses? Well the slot gains have been both in the U.S.
and in international.
And they have been -- you're correct we have had solid growth in the U.S.
We've had particularly good growth in international.
And that's because as we roll out the Cloud a lot of our customers are moving from carrying essentially just the Traditional line of mattresses to carrying the Traditional and the Cloud and the Sensation what we call the Collections.
And this has given really quite a significant increase in slots.
We've said before that we expect over the full rollout of the Cloud to gain a net of about 2 slots in international.
So it really is it is quite important.
From a training point of view or training of the people selling in the stores it's obviously crucial for people who are in stores the RSAs representing our products to know the product well.
And Dale referred to the RSA program where we get people to buy the discounted rate our products so that they can sleep on them because we know that there's no better advocate than somebody who actually own a TEMPUR bed.
And on top of that we're putting a lot of extra emphasis on training and calling on stores.
We continue to invest in people what we call feet on the street because again there's no replacement for having somebody call on our store and talk to the people there and get to know them and explain how our beds differ and how they work and how people prefer them.
And that's true in the U.S.
and it's true in the major countries in the rest of the world.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up have you guys updated any of your longer term door slot goals? No not from the last time that we published those.
I would expect you may have an update on that in mid-February when we have our Investor Day.
Our next question is from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
This is actually Chad filling in for Budd who's traveling tonight.
Question I guess kind of following up on the Danish production issue.
Your international growth in local currency was very solid again this quarter at 15% but it did moderate a bit versus the 18% that you put up last quarter.
And I think if I remember correctly the comp was a little bit easier.
How much was there -- was the loss revenue impact from the production bottleneck? I mean can you quantify how much it impacted reported sales for the quarter? So we certainly would have had better revenue internationally without the significant increase in backlog.
We have -- you can see internationally that if you look at the pieces retail did very well direct did very well.
The part that -- the one part of the business that was down and down quite a bit sequentially was third party.
Now third party was related to really 2 things.
One the conversion of CRE [ph] from a third party to a subsidiary.
It was a small impact.
But really the primary impact was as we were -- if you're familiar with Europe and the way Europe -- particularly the Europe side of the business works July and August during those months one of -- there's always some country that's on vacation for the month.
So third quarter internationally is heavily determined by September.
That's the big quarter internationally particularly in Europe in the third quarter.
So as we got into September and demand was increasing significantly what we would prioritize was the shorter lead time shipments trying to make sure that we had all of our customer service levels covered.
And so third party tends to be a little bit longer lead time so it was -- we emphasized on the shorter lead time customer service items that we needed to protect the retailers on.
So there was an impact.
Like I said earlier we had record backlog going into the fourth quarter.
I don't want to quantify exactly how much revenue may have slipped from 3Q to 4Q because of that but it was a fair bit.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And I guess you gave -- I believe you gave the door number consolidated 150 door increase.
Was it 75 and 75 -- international and domestic? Roughly correct Chad.
About half of it was in the U.S.
And then just one more housekeeping for me and I'll defer to others.
U.S.
furniture and bedding sales in the quarter? U.S.
furniture and bedding sales $242 million.
Yes $242 million.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As you look at the Cloud rollout in Europe will we start hitting the kind of run rate pace you think you'll get too early in '12? Or will it take as the year goes along to get there? We think it will take -- it will take the year.
In fact ultimately it will take more than a year.
It takes time because not only does it takes time to rollout it takes time for it to roll out to every -- as many stores in any given chain and also for people to get used to it.
But we'll see probably a faster rollout that we did in the U.S.
because we're rolling all the models together.
So it will be faster than the U.S.
but it won't -- it's not going to be -- we have our expectation and the normal experience is that it will build over time.
So it will build over next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the product you're shipping from the United States to Europe to make up for the production issues you've had is that primarily the Cloud or that include other models as well? It's primarily the Cloud but there are a few other of the traditional TEMPUR products that are being shipped.
But it is predominantly the Cloud.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you do that out of Virginia? Actually a lot of that production is coming out of Albuquerque.
Our next question is from Eric Hollowaty of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just a real quick question on the remainder of the European rollout.
Could you just refresh us on the -- what remains to be done? I believe you said the U.K.
Has that started already? Or when do you anticipate that will be completed? If we could just revisit the update on that that'd be great.
The U.K.
has literally started in the last few weeks so it's just rolling literally rolling out as we speak.
And the availability -- it's now available pretty much everywhere.
It's all intents and purposes everywhere but it's rolling out.
I mean it still takes time for it to get to all the different customers.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And Mark could you remind us on how large that market is vis-à-vis your other international markets? We haven't done that in the past Eric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Not even on a relative basis? Well certainly the U.K.
is a important market for us.
It's one of the larger economies in Europe.
It's also -- and we believe that the Cloud will do very well there.
But in terms of breaking down we don't break down our international business by country.
Our next question is from John Baugh of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick on the gross margin guidance for Q4.
Did I hear you right you said it was going to be up sequentially from Q3? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And yet you're going to incur more gross margin hit relating to the shipping costs and productivity there.
So I'm curious so even if I throw in say $3 million of costs for those items $3 million to $4 million the flow-through number I get on your guidance is about 25% to EBIT from the increased sales and you've been running closer to 30% 35% for the year.
You mentioned higher raw materials higher ap.
I don't know.
Just put some color on what else maybe going on in there.
Well chemical costs are up and we -- it would be nice to see some relief in chemicals.
But until we see it we're not going to count on it.
So obviously as we talked all year chemicals costs are up this year.
They went up at the end of the second quarter so they're at a higher run rate than they were -- significantly higher run rate year-over-year than they were even in the first half and sequentially they're higher.
We do have some additional step up in marketing planned for the business.
And while we do expect those margins to improve from 3Q to 4Q the improvement is going to be muted a little bit by increasing the transatlantic shipping of product to support rebuilding the inventory levels internationally.
And we think that we'll get through that as we get through the balance of this quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dale where would that step up in marketing occur? Both here and international markets? Yes predominantly internationally as we -- the fourth quarter is internationally the peak quarter for the year which is different than here.
Here the fourth quarter is a little bit softer seasonally.
But fourth quarter internationally is higher so we'll be ramping up that spend internationally.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I know you're not guiding anything on '12 yet but is there any way to tip your hand about how you're thinking about marketing spend in '12? Well we stepped up our marketing spend this year almost 200 basis points.
As we get into '12 like we said we're not providing guidance at this stage.
We're just still in the planning process.
From a marketing standpoint you would think that we would at least maintain the percentage marketing rate that we're using this year.
Yes that's right.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First I want to ask a housekeeping question around how you guys are calculating the sales when they show up in North America versus international? The sales that were actually shipped from North America but were sold in Europe did those show up in North America sales or international sales? International.
Research Division</strong> Could you say that again? International.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
My second question was you also talked about the Danish issue.
I'm trying to understand and it wasn't clear to me whether or not that will creep into 2012 and whether or not that changed your long term -- whether or not 2012 would be an anomaly to your -- some of your long-term goals of cutting additional costs out of the COGS line? Yes sitting here today we don't expect it to continue into 2012.
Like we said the thing that the U.S.
is doing is trying to help support rebuilding the inventory levels internationally.
Fourth quarter is as I said just a minute ago is the peak quarter in the year internationally.
So at a time of record revenues and getting behind the eight ball if you will getting behind the curve the U.S.
is helping the Denmark plant get caught back up from a service level standpoint.
We expect everything to be back to normal Denmark able to support the international business as we go into next year.
Though it might be a positive thing if it can't because that would mean that demand further exceeds our expectations because from a production standpoint it is coming up to speed very quickly.
And as I said every week it's doing record production levels.
Research Division</strong> So where's your capacity utilization in Denmark? And is there something that you guys are going to need to address as you think about capital expenditure for '12 and/or '13? Yes right now our capacity utilization in Denmark is about 50%.
Now you may say well why are you having trouble producing? Like I said the system change caused one operation to become a bottleneck so we're working to change the process around that one system to make it more efficient.
And actually we believe once we get through this transition it will actually be even much more efficient than it used to be.
The other thing though is that capacity is a -- machine capacity of the overall plant with the growth in demand we're having to add shifts in Denmark.
To add people requires finding people the right kind of people that you want to hire getting them on board getting them trained and then getting them productive.
So in a growth scenario once you hit a point where you need to add a shift you actually take a temporary backward step from the overall productivity standpoint as the new people come on and get trained and become productive themselves and then you start to see the productivity go back up.
But from an absolute capacity standpoint we have sufficient capacity in Denmark as we ramp up employment to support the international business and international growth plans for many years.
Research Division</strong> And if I could sneak one last one in there on your new product introduction and the effect that it had on gross margin.
Could you quantify that? And also give us a framework for thinking about how new products should consistently affect your gross margin? Mark called out 2012 in a year where you guys expect to have even starting in January another rollout.
I'm trying to understand as I think about the 2012 numbers how I should expect that obviously to impact revenue but also the gross margin.
Yes the thing that -- I think the important thing to keep in mind is generally because of the timeframe of how we introduce products or have historically introduced products there's usually always something that's rolling out.
The thing that was unique this year was on the Contour rollout.
It was an extraordinarily compressed -- word was escaping -- extraordinarily compressed timeframe.
Because it was -- it wasn't a new product line addressing a new need.
It was a product line replacing an existing product line.
So therefore the timeframe -- we rolled out to all the stores in basically 3 months.
And so it was a very compressed floor model rollout which was why we expected to have more than usual impact of floor model discounts in the third quarter.
And we did have the floor model discount impact that we were expecting.
That's a little bit of an unusual situation like the Cloud rollout internationally.
You're seeing floor model discounts flow throughout the year as we roll out market-by-market.
When we did the Cloud in the U.S.
the floor model discounts were spread over approximately 18 months.
Where here we took roughly the same number of floor models and put them out in 3 months.
So it was a very concentrated thing.
As we get into next year we have new product -- the next new product rollout.
It likely would not be so concentrated because it would be a new platform as opposed to existing -- replacing an existing platform.
Does that help? Our next question is from Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions here.
First in terms of competition did you guys see any impact from iComfort at all in the quarter? It doesn't seem like that was the case given the strength in North America but wanted to see if that was -- if you were seeing any there.
And then secondly on that same front what kind of distribution has that product gotten? I mean has it overlapped with yours at all? So we're not going to talk specifics about a specific competitor.
As we normally don't.
But obviously we -- there is always competition in the industry and there are a series of competitors all of whom have over time introduced products that are comparable to ours.
We've had a growth rate of 30% in the U.S.
this last quarter so we're quite pleased with how it's going.
We anticipate -- one of the things that's happening that we see is that the growth of the specialty market is very significant.
Obviously we're very -- we're pleased with our role in helping it grow.
The specialty market is very very significant and all indications are that it will continue to do so.
So we're not surprised to see other people come in but we see enormous potential for growth.
We see enormous potential for growth but kind of the big driver of that is the proportion of the market the proportion of the users.
That will be specialty in general and TEMPUR in particular consumers.
We see growing for some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's actually helpful.
Then secondly in terms of new products you mentioned earlier we're going to see a number of them over the next 12 to 24 months.
Is there a particular price point that you feel is an opportunity? And on that same front would you consider an entry-level price point below Contour? Or are you guys committed right now to the premium end? I'm not going to talk about specific products but I will say this.
As I said in the prepared comments I really don't want to talk in specifics about new products because we're going to talk in great detail in just -- in January about it.
The thing I'd say though is that we have taken the position that -- we have a product plan that literally goes out for 3 years 3.5 years.
And we have product launches scheduled out for 3.5 years in the U.S.
and internationally.
And what's quite exciting is that each of these areas are -- or each of these product platforms are ones that address consumer needs that we have been able to identify that are materially incremental to what we already supply.
And so we're quite excited about it.
And we see this as something that -- one of the things that we have continually done as well as investing in advertising is invest in product development.
And invest not just in product development as much as material and technology development so that we're in a position to make products that meet different consumer needs.
And so it's really quite an exciting time right now and you will see the first wave of that in a couple of months.
Our next question is from Peter Keith of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I want to just get a little more color on the mix benefit that you highlighted that impacted gross margin.
If we look back to Q2 I think that was highlighted as the #1 gross margin driver.
Here it looks like it was a little bit behind the manufacturing efficiencies.
I was wondering was there a slight deceleration in the overall positive impact? And could you just provide a little more color on what drove the overall benefit? The mix continues to be very good but we also started lapping when we started rolling out the Luxe last year.
So through -- we started shipping the Luxe in the third quarter second half of the third quarter last year.
So it was providing significant positive mix uncontested if you will throughout the year.
And then in the third quarter it started lapping itself.
So you get a little less mix from the Luxe but the Luxe continues to perform extraordinarily well.
We also expect from a mix standpoint and whether you want to call it price or mix it's actually a combination of the 2.
The Contour versus the TEMPUR Original line -- 3 products replacing 3 products a little bit higher price for the new Contour line than what it was replacing.
That's a combination of mix and pricing going on but you don't see the full impact of that in the quarter because of the floor models -- significant floor models going out on the Contour.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Dale.
There's a gross margin-related question on the commodity costs.
I'm guessing there's been some step down in your overall chemical costs over the last 3 months since you last spoke to us.
I guess could you help us think about how that might look over the coming quarters? And when if the current prices were to hold when we actually might see commodity cost headwinds go away and maybe potentially turn into a -- even a slight tailwind? Well our commodity costs are up in the third quarter from what they were in the second quarter which is what we expected.
But with a little moderating and staying moderated for a while.
The upward pressure on our commodity costs seems to have eased but we're not seeing reductions yet.
Hopefully those will come.
And it's hard -- it's something that's hard to predict because it's not just related to what's the price of oil.
The price of the commodity chemicals that we buy is -- can be related to the percentage mix of if it's produced by oil or natural gas.
But it's really heavily influenced by supply and demand and there are a lot of things that factor into supply and demand.
And we would be hopeful to -- if oil stays at a moderated level to ultimately see some give back on the commodity increases that were driven by oil running up earlier in the year.
But until it happens we can't predict it.
Our next question is from Jon Andersen of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Europe is a bit of a blind spot I think for U.S.
investors -- for us clearly and you had good organic growth there in the quarter.
But the growth did decelerate sequentially on a somewhat easier comp.
And I guess taking out the impact of the productivity issue in Denmark we would have expected I guess some acceleration there.
And I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about bigger picture what you're seeing in Europe in terms of industry trends and if you're seeing trends fairly stable or deteriorating and any commentary in the premium segment would be helpful.
Well I mean firstly I mean I think there are 2 big messages now a bit of detail.
The first message is our business in international is going quite nicely and in Europe in particular where we're investing in advertising.
We're quite pleased with those results.
The second big message is the market.
In those 3 -- the mattress market in the big geographies where we're investing is not good.
There has been quite -- I mean obviously the macro environment is not good and the industry is not good.
So we're growing despite a significant headwind.
And it continues to respond well.
We -- this investment in advertising was predicated on the fact that we have very good distribution in many of the largest geographies but relatively low awareness.
And the hypothesis that we --  the fact that supported our investment our decision to invest in Europe was that if we could raise awareness then we should be able to lift sales levels.
And we can now say that that really does work and has worked and will continue to work and we'll continue to invest behind it.
So this quarter was impacted to some extent by delivery constraints.
But overall in a difficult environment we're doing quite well.
Now from a macro point of view you read the same newspapers that I do.
It's -- every day we wonder what's going to happen in Germany and in France and the U.K.
and Spain and so on with what's going on.
So there's bound to be some macro effects but the fundamental and long-term opportunity we're very confident about.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
One last question on gross margin.
I think you cited kind of mix is a positive I believe in terms of its influence on gross margin year-over-year and sequentially.
I kind of thought that you had a very strong organic growth rate obviously in North America in the third quarter and so much lower internationally.
And I guess I was under the assumption that the international business tended to be higher margin for you.
So would that not have been a headwind perhaps? Just more clarity on that would be helpful.
Yes mix can cover a number of things.
It can cover the mix of the products.
It also is a factor of geography mix.
And yes the growth in the U.S.
versus the growth rate internationally gives you a negative geographic mix.
You also have very -- we have very strong growth in direct which gives us a positive channel mix.
So mix covers a lot of different things.
Absolutely geography mix was a negative but we look at mix across a number of different categories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Actually one more if I could squeak it in.
The acquisition that you made I think it was a little under $5 million in the quarter.
Was that buying in the Korean operation? Yes.
We announced that as a subsequent event in our Q -- well I think we announced it on the July call.
So yes that was buying in the Korean operation.
Our next question is from Jessica Schoen of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could talk about the attached rates for the Ergo adjustable products for a minute? I know you said the attached rates did improve.
I was wondering if you're still seeing a large difference between the U.S.
and internationally and what you think accounts for that.
Well we don't give the exact number but I will say that the Ergo rate continues to improve significantly in the U.S.
And quite honestly no sign of slowing in that.
That's a very positive thing.
It's something we're putting a lot of emphasis on.
We've got advertising that's running specifically associated with it.
We've got training specifically associated with it but it's no doubt it continues to grow.
And we really are getting -- but internationally it's growing too and we believe that we can get a very significant growth rate there too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's still -- in the U.S.
would you say it's still lagging or...
You can't overwrite international as a whole -- I see what you are saying.
Sorry I misunderstood the question.
There are parts in -- there are some countries in Europe where attached rates are very high.
But on average it's still higher for us.
The attached rate is higher for us in the U.S.
then it is on average in international.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question was about the improved efficiencies of the manufacturing and the impact on gross margin.
And how much longer you think those could still continue to positively impact it if there was still a long ways to go or if most of the improvements were in place.
Well that's certainly not the way we're planning.
No I think we do believe there is efficient -- we -- sort of fundamental to our plan is that we build in an expectation of efficiency improvements every year and we have a 5-year plan that we've been working on and which every year we update.
So no.
We believe there are productivity improvements that we can see for a long way to come.
Our next question is from Mark Rupe of Longbow Research.
Just one follow-up here.
I know it's a small piece of the business but the U.S.
Pillow business is there anything funky going on in the quarter? I know you guys have a new rollout coming but it looks like it didn't grow nearly as fast.
I know the comp was hard from last year.
But is there anything going on there with the new rollout maybe people waiting for that or anything? I mean it is a slower growth.
If you look at it on an absolute level it still was a record sales of pillows this past quarter.
But it's compared to a big rollout last year of one big customer that we had.
So we're up against what you would call a funky comp.
Having said that we believe that the growth of pillows is a big area of focus which is why we are putting emphasis behind it.
Why these new products are just rolling out now are very important.
We believe there is potential growth beyond what we've been getting.
Okay.
And then -- just real fast on the kind of the 29 markets that you cited that you tested some heavier spend.
Was the duration of that during I guess 2011 how significant it was? And then is 29 the number? Is there a potential to do more than that in '12 and beyond? That was an extended experiment -- no not experiment -- an extended monitor test.
And through the bulk of the year it was very good very conclusive and we will definitely expand it.
We're going to do it thoughtfully and we're picking our markets one by one but there'll definitely be more than 29 next year.
Ladies and gentlemen this ends the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference.
I'd like to turn the call over to management for any closing remarks.
Well thanks again everybody and we look forward to talking with you again in January when we review the fourth quarter and the full year.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur-Pedic Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Barry Hytinen.
Thanks Matthew and thank you to everyone for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams Executive Vice President and CFO.
After prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company’s expectation regarding sales and earnings involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including the company's annual report on Form 10-K under the headings Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
And the company undertakes no obligations to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
And now I would like to welcome our group our new Vice President of Investor Relations who joined us earlier this month.
Last year I took on additional responsibilities as Senior Vice President of Global Business Development in addition to IR.
And over the last year our business development initiatives have ramped and Mark's hiring will allow me to be fully dedicated to this area.
As many of you know Mark has covered the company as a self [ph] analyst for many years and was twice named Best on The Street by the Wall Street Journal for his coverage of home construction and furnishings.
Mark reports directly to Dale Williams and he's joining us on the call today.
And now with that introduction it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Barry.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
We're pleased with the performance throughout 2011 and the fourth quarter was a good end to a very strong year.
Fourth quarter sales were up 25% and earnings per share increased 27%.
For the year sales were up 28% and earnings per share increased 47%.
In a few moments Dale will provide details of the fourth quarter and full year financial results as well as our 2012 guidance.
But first I'd like to talk about the progress we made on our key strategic initiatives in 2011 and discuss the key drivers for the company in 2012.
Just as a reminder our 4 strategic initiatives are: number one make sure that everyone knows that they would sleep better on TEMPUR by investing in brand marketing; number two make sure that there is a TEMPUR mattress and pillow that appeals to everyone by expanding and strengthening our product line; number three make sure that TEMPUR is available to everyone by gaining broad high-quality distribution; and number four make sure that we continue to deliver the best sleep by investing in R&amp;D and consumer research.
We have made progress on all these initiatives in 2011.
Sales growth were strong both in the U.S.
and overseas and we have gained share domestically and around the world.
This growth was driven primarily by the success of our new products and our increased investments in advertising as well as by continued expansion and distribution.
The new Cloud Collection continues to grow in the U.S.
and has been very successful in its first year of launch internationally.
The Contour Collection which was launched in 2011 in the U.S.
has also exceeded our expectations.
We increased our brand advertising to record levels with our total investment in 2011 almost $150 million.
The Ask Me campaign in the U.S.
continues to be successful with communicating the benefits of TEMPUR and it's a flexible platform that allows us to focus communications as appropriate.
The Weightless campaign which we launched in Germany France and the U.K.
has also proved successful driving incremental volume in each of these countries.
We've also gained substantial distribution stores and slots both in the U.S.
and overseas.
As the Cloud line ramps internationally we've increased the number of TEMPUR slots with our retailers in every market.
So now let's turn to our strategic focus areas for 2012.
We're very excited about the next stage of our plan to become the world's favorite mattress and pillow brand and to continue on our path toward our $2 billion goal.
We'll continue to implement the 4 initiatives of our strategy and specifically in 2012 we'll broaden our product range increase our consumer communication raise advocacy with our retail customers and gain distribution.
First on new products.
There are consumer segments that we do not currently address and one of our 4 initiatives is to use R&amp;D to ensure there is a TEMPUR mattress and pillow that appeals to everyone.
So as we did with the Cloud Collection we've identified another major opportunity to expand our appeal and meaningfully grow our business.
The $1 000 to $2 000 price tag represents a very large market segment that we currently do not address in a meaningful way.
In fact in the U.S.
this segment has the same dollar value as all the segments above $2 000 added together.
So I'm excited to announce that we will be introducing a 3-bed line with varying fields priced at $1 499 for a Queen set next week at the Las Vegas bedding show.
The introduction of this line effectively doubles the size of our addressable market.
We spent the last 2 years developing this collection and it's the most researched product we have ever launched.
It is both consumer preferred to the competitive set and vastly incremental to our existing product portfolio.
Initial retailer feedback has been very positive and we expect to gain considerable incremental thought [ph].
Now while we know you will have -- likely have many questions we're going to save the rest of the details for Las Vegas.
Internationally we will be continuing the successful rollout of the Cloud Collection.
And in both the U.S.
and overseas we expect distribution gains both in the form of additional doors and additional slots.
Secondly we will increase our brand advertising globally.
We continue to see that investments in advertising are effective and have had a positive ROI around the world.
Further we find that increasing rates of advertising drives increased share and profitability.
In 2011 we tested heavy-up marketing in 29 local markets in the U.S.
and saw a very positive result.
In 2012 we will significantly expand the test and monitor the results and if it works as expected we will ramp the program across the country.
Additionally in 2012 we're increasing our investment in brand advertising in Germany France and the U.K.
and introducing TV campaigns into additional markets including Japan Italy and Australia.
And our confidence is high that advertising there will have a very positive impact on awareness and sales in these new markets just as it had in Europe last year.
To maximize the success of our new products in our advertising we're also very committed to ensuring that our retailers remain strong advocates of the TEMPUR line.
We previously announced that we will be taking price increases on selected items within the range and in Vegas we'll be announcing a new promotion structure both of which will increase dealer profitability from selling TEMPUR products.
In addition we have found that in those markets where retailers integrate their advertising with our national campaign the results for both us and the retailers are dramatically improved.
During 2012 we will work with retailers across the country to create and run impactful advertising that is integrated with Tempur national advertising.
Lastly a couple of contextual comments before I hand over the call to Dale.
The environment we are operating in remains challenging.
Fairly the macro environment particularly in Europe is uncertain.
And our retailer feedback both in the U.S.
and around the world indicates the traffic levels remain inconsistent.
Our plans are based on a series of initiatives including a new product offering in the U.S.
which is yet to be sold with single consumer.
Therefore we will remain flexible and we'll review our plans and be prepared to adjust accordingly throughout the year.
Having said that we remain focused on driving meaningful growth for many years to come.
We have a small but growing share today and we'll continue to build on that with our investments in marketing and new products introductions.
In a few weeks at our Investor Day we'll discuss our new 5-year plan.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the financials and our 2012 guidance.
Let's begin with an overview.
In total fourth quarter net sales were $367 million an increase of 25% over the same period last year.
On a constant currency basis net sales increased 24%.
North American sales were up 26% and international segments net sales increased 25%.
On a constant currency basis international net sales increased 21%.
Now by channel in North American retail net sales were $225 million an increase of 25%.
The North American direct channel increased by 44% to $21 million.
International retail sales were $94 million up 28% and up 23% on a constant currency basis.
By product mattresses were up 26% driven by a 22% increase in units.
North American mattress sales increased 24% on a 14% increase in units reflecting favorable price and mix.
In the international segment mattress sales increased 33% driven by a 36% unit increase.
On a constant currency basis international mattress sales were up 29%.
The modest decline in AUSP was related to our new futon product in Japan and associated floor models.
Total pillow net sales increased by 16% on 11% increase in units.
North American pillow sales increased 15% on a unit growth of 10%.
International pillow sales were up 17% on a 12% increase in units.
On a constant currency basis international pillow sales increased 13%.
Sales of our other products which include items that are normally sold along with the mattress were up 28% in total and up 36% in North America and 10% internationally.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.1% up 20 basis points year-on-year and down 30 points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis gross margin improved related to the following: Favorable mix improved efficiencies in manufacturing related to our productivity program and fixed cost leverage related to higher production volumes.
These benefits were largely offset by higher commodity costs and the costs associated with U.S.
shipments to support our Danish manufacturing facility.
On a sequential basis gross margin declined as we shipped slightly more product to Europe from our U.S.
factories than initially anticipated as our international sales continue to trend higher.
However as of the end of the year we are no longer shipping products to Europe.
Our European factory is now producing at record levels and capable of fulfilling our international growth plan.
Our fourth quarter operating profit was $85.8 million or 23.4%.
Operating expenses were up reflecting an increased investment and brand advertising to drive growth.
SG&amp;A expenses include a couple of items that I would like to address.
As we previously disclosed there's a variable component in our long-term incentive plan.
In light of our strong 2011 results and continued positive outlook we took a one-time charge to catch up our accrual of approximately $2 million.
Partially offsetting this charge was a favorable adjustment of $1.8 million to the earn-out payment related to a prior acquisition.
Interest expense was $3.5 million.
The tax rate was 32.2% modestly down reflecting the benefits of NOLs in certain foreign subsidiaries.
EPS was $0.84 as compared to $0.66 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Now we'll summarize the income statement for the full year 2011.
Sales were up 28% in total and 25% on a constant currency basis.
North American sales were up 30% and international sales were up 24%.
On a constant currency basis international sales increased 16%.
Operating margins improved 180 basis points to 24%.
Full year earnings per share were $3.18.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
Our accounts receivable balance was up reflecting sales levels however our DSOs were flat from last year.
Inventories were up $21 million year-on-year but flat from last quarter.
During the quarter we generated $70 million of operating cash flow and capital expenditures were $11 million.
We increased debt by $76 million to $585 million to partially fund share repurchases which totaled 2.3 million shares for a total cost of $128.5 million in the quarter.
Our cash balance increased by $8 million to $111 million.
Funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 1.5x at year end within our targeted range of 1.5x to 2x.
Over the long term we expect continued growth in sales earnings and cash flow which together with low capital needs will enable us to continue to return value to stockholders.
We're pleased that our board has authorized a new $250 million share repurchase program for 2012.
Now I'd like to address our guidance for full year 2012.
We currently expect net sales to range from $1.6 billion to $1.65 billion.
And we currently expect earnings per share to range from $3.80 to $3.95 per diluted share.
We project our gross margin for the full year to be up as much as 200 basis points at the high end of our guidance range and slightly little less than this at the low end.
Our gross margin projections assume continued productivity and volume leverage partially offset by higher commodity costs.
Also as a reminder our 2011 gross margin was negatively impacted by 50 basis points due to the system upgrade issue I referenced earlier.
We project our operating margins for the full year to expand by nearly 100 basis points despite our continued investment and strategic initiatives to drive long-term growth.
However in the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter while we are expecting gross margins to increase slightly operating margins will contract slightly as we start the heavy-up investment in marketing.
We anticipate interest expense for the full year to be approximately $19 million.
We anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $50 million which includes the cost to build our new office in Lexington.
We anticipate the full year tax rate to be approximately 33.3% and we are using a share count of 66 million shares for the full year.
The share count does not assume any benefit from a potential reduction in shares outstanding related to the company's new repurchase program.
In conclusion our guidance reflects that it is a long year with many new strategic initiatives and products.
Therefore we believe it is prudent to plan the year as I have outlined.
Now before we open the call for Q&amp;A I would like to address our recent sales trends.
In the fourth quarter we experienced improving growth rate by month.
In the first quarter sales trends through the first 23 days have continued to be strong and we're very pleased with that.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
One final comment I'd like to thank Barry for his outstanding leadership of Investor Relations over the last 7 years and we're excited about the contributions he is making in his new role.
With that Operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly clarify that 50 basis points get through the systems was that a Q4 or 2011 total impact? And then secondly how should we think about as a percentage of revenue I guess the accent in 2012? John this is Dale.
Yes the 50 basis points is looking at the full year.
Of course that impacted Q3 and Q4.
So it is concentrated in those 2 quarters mostly in Q4.
On the advertising spend in 2011 our advertising spend was in the 10.5 range.
Right now we're planning for 2012 advertising to be in the vicinity of 13%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how would that break out Dale between the U.S.
and international? Just like the 10.5 it was actually pretty balanced the 13 is also going to be fairly balanced between the 2 holes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that going to be a heavy emphasis on the newly interest product or to general brand marketing? John it's Mark here.
It will be broadly focused across the range and will obviously be different by region and by geography depending on the situation there.
In the U.S.
we will -- the new product will be featured in the advertising but we'll go into details of that in Vegas.
But it will -- the broad answer to the question is it will be across the range.
And it's obviously a very important part of our strategy going forward.
Our next question in queue is from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just follow up on the revenue guidance for next year.
I was hoping you could provide a little more color on your expectations for the North American segment versus international and what you baked in for FX? Yes Bradley right now we believe that from an overall standpoint we're going to see actually fairly balanced growth this year.
We think the U.S.
will continue to perform but the international business growth rate has picked up.
Right now we're thinking it's going to be fairly balanced.
From an FX standpoint while FX was a help for most of 2011 it was -- the amount of benefit that we got from FX declined as the year went on.
Our expectations for 2012 at this stage is that FX will be neutral.
And if rates where to say basically where they are right now that's where it would come out.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And in terms of the guidance also Dale could you give us some color on what you're factoring in in terms of raw materials? And what the run rate looks like right now based on what you saw on the fourth quarter? Yes as usual we were planning the year.
We tried to assume at least on the commodity side that we're going to see price increases because that's something that's completely out of our control.
Right now what we have built into our guidance would be that we would see a mid-to-high single digit impact on commodities.
How that would play out versus 2011? You would -- currently you would expect a little bit more impact in the first half than in the second half because we saw inflationary commodity prices as 2011 went on.
So the first half was lower than the second half on commodity costs so we would expect a little bit more impact of that in the first half as compared to the second half.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And I'm going to just ask Mark one last question here.
I know you want to save a discussion on the new line until next week but when I think about when you guys rolled out the Cloud the first time the biggest question was was cannibalization.
And I was hoping maybe you could talk a little bit about what you've done to try and make sure this new line does not cannibalize existing sales? Right.
You're right the first time.
I don't want to talk about this until we get to Vegas.
Please we'll see you in Vegas and we'll take you through it.
It's obviously something that we thought about a lot.
And I think when you see the product you'd see how it's positioned and marketed you'll understand what we've done.
But it's not something I want to go into on the call today.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the gross margin if we could get a little more quantification of the items that may be affecting you sequentially from third quarter to fourth quarter what they did? Because you had I think Dale expected gross margins to be up sequentially in the fourth quarter.
Yes we did Budd.
We thought at the time that we did the third quarter call that we would see a slight improvement in gross margin sequentially.
If you recall at the time we said that we thought that the cost impact of supporting the international business from the U.S.
factories would cost us $3 million or $4 million.
Basically in our planning we had $3 million baked into that.
It ended up because as you can see the international business performed really well in the fourth quarter ended up being a little over $4 million.
But again I would emphasize that by the end of the year the shipping had stopped.
The productivity of the Danish plant is at record levels and we're very comfortable that the Danish plant now will support all the growth plans for the international business for years to come.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Normally in your filings I think you provide segment gross margin and operating margins and I suspect the K has been done or all the audit is done.
Could you possibly give it to us before the filing? Maybe what the percentages were for international versus domestic? Or do we need to wait for the filing? Yes I think it'd be easier to wait for the filing.
I don't have that sitting in front of me.
But we'll be filing our K in the next several days.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally I just make sure I got the numbers right if you do 13% advertising to sales ratio it looks like advertising on pure dollars will be up about $60 million year-over-year something like $210 million is that the plan? That's in the neighborhood.
That is right.
It's a very important number.
It's a very important part of our strategy.
And the only thing that I do want you and everybody else to understand is and like we do everything else we test test test.
So this is the result.
So this is our plan as we stand here today.
We've tested everything in both the U.S.
and the markets that I referred to and overseas.
And as we roll this out we will continue the tests.
But this is our best plan or our best expectation.
But it's going to be something that we'll discuss at the investor conference in February.
So hopefully we'll see you there and we'll take you through it in more detail.
It's a very important part of what's driving the strategy going forward both in terms of growth and in terms of continuing to build upon what is already a very strong brand.
Our next question comes from Leah Villalobos with Longbow Research.
I was just hoping you could talk a little bit more about the recent trends.
You mentioned some recent strengthening here towards the end of the fourth quarter and beginning of the year.
If there's anything specific that you're seeing that's driving that? Yes.
It's hard to dig underneath it.
Certainly there was a promotion in the fourth quarter that seemed to do well but we did see both domestically and internationally.
So on the domestic side we saw improving trends in the business as the quarter went on.
Internationally we saw very good trends throughout the quarter as -- through the third quarter we're seeing international business pickup.
That continued through the fourth quarter in terms of the first -- the start of this year we're 23 days in.
We're very pleased with how the business is performing again on both sides.
Both the international business and the North American business are performing well but it's early in the quarter and this can be a fluctuating industry.
So we don't take 23 days lightly but we also don't project it out forever.
Sure.
Okay.
And then just in terms of door count could you give us an update of where you ended the quarter and what your assumptions are for 2012? Sure.
On the domestic side furniture and bedding doors we ended right about 7 500 so we're up almost 250 doors in the fourth quarter.
And internationally we ended at almost 5 300 doors.
So internationally again up almost 100 doors in the fourth quarter.
For 2012 we don't give a specific door guidance anymore but we would expect both internationally and domestically to continue to see some expansion of doors.
The overall door growth internationally last year was actually fairly limited.
That was a combination of the difficult environments in Europe.
There was quite a bit of calling so there was a bit of a netting going on.
So we didn't -- overall we didn't have a ton of doors over there frankly because of the environment and the uncertainty.
In that kind of environment you want to make sure that your existing retailers are performing very well and are very healthy and we're very comfortable with that at this stage.
But over time we do expect a lot more door opportunity internationally than what we did in 2011.
Okay.
And when you say over time you think that begins in 2012 or are we looking beyond 2012? Well the biggest uncertainty is what's going on over there.
Our business is performing very well but the overall macro environment in Europe continues to be a question.
So we'll see how it plays out.
But we do expect over the next several years to add quite a few doors internationally both in Europe and in Asia.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Let me just clarify one thing.
Does your new guidance incorporate the impact from your new product launch? I just wasn't sure if that was the case.
Yes it does Joshua.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then your pricing expectations for 2012 is there any chance you could give us a more clarity on where you expect pricing to go for your base product? I'm not sure if you guys want to look at it on a same-store sales basis just given that you're introducing a lower price point product? We're making a variety of pricing adjustments across the range of different products.
It doesn't apply to every product and it doesn't apply to some of the key price points like the $1 999 and $2 999 and so on.
So it's a spread across the whole range.
And those price increases together with the new product and everything else are all incorporated in both the top line and the gross margin assumptions for the full year.
Research Division</strong> And then when you guys think about 2012 and the store level advertising can you just dig a little bit deeper about what you guys are planning to do on that end? And if that's a change in strategy versus what you guys -- what your approach was in 2011? Probably a change in strategy.
What we're finding as I said is where retailers and we are advertising in in an integrated manner it works very well.
So we tested that throughout the country and it works very well from one site to the other.
And it's something that we're going to continue to focus on.
And it's something as I said that we're going to expand this year but we're going to continue to test as we expand.
But it's also something that we'll talk about in the context of the overall advertising in the Investor Day.
So again it's something that I'd like to talk more about in the context as a whole picture when we're all together in New York in a couple of weeks.
Our next question is from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First in terms of the new mattress line obviously you don't want to go into too much technical detail ahead of Vegas but could you just give us a sense of the timing of when we'll see those in stores in the U.S.
and overseas? Yes.
The new product will be in stores in the U.S.
in the second quarter.
And at the moment it's not planned to roll out overseas this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And in terms of the market opportunity you mentioned that this increases your adjustable market by about 50%.
How does that compare to what you guys thought with Cloud going in? Well actually it's 100%.
The way to think about this is if you imagine that the size of the market I mean this is not precise math I'm not going to -- but if you think about it like this approximately half of the population prefers a soft mattress and half of those a firm mattress.
And when we introduced Cloud we essentially went for the other half of those people who were in the price range of Tempur-Pedic but who until then did not have a product that appealed to them because they didn't have a soft one there was only a firm.
So we consider that to be a doubling.
But if you consider now what we're talking about we're doubling that doubling.
So we're essentially -- if you compare it to the size of the market that we were addressing prior to the introduction of the Cloud we are in broad terms addressing a market that is 4x as big as the market we were addressing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And just one last one in terms of the competition we obviously seen a ton of new beds in the Visco arena.
It doesn't seem like they've had much of an impact on you guys thus far in terms of market share.
Have you seen any evidence that they're helping the overall pie to grow in terms of Visco at this point.
Well obviously we've had competitors of different types Visco latex and so on over the years and we will continue to.
And this is a tough market with some very good competitors in it and they will continue to introduce products.
So this is what we anticipate.
But as you said from our point of view we've grown quite nicely this year we've grown -- this year and this quarter.
And we've seen share gains throughout the period.
What I think is the fundamental thing that we're seeing is that consumers are increasingly prepared to pay a premium for a product that will enable them to sleep better.
And so what's happening is that -- what we're seeing and we think it is a pretty fundamental shift is that the consumer is coming to this premium priced product and that is what's driving our growth.
And I think obviously it's the strength in other people as well but it's driving our growth.
And I think what we -- the way we look at -- how to capitalize on that opportunity is by continuing to innovate with products that have greater differentiation and preference with consumers.
And as you know we always for all new products that we introduce are tested against not only our existing products but also against the competitors' set.
And so what we look to do is to capitalize on this fundamental trend by continuing to have products that are both genuinely differentiated and preferred by consumers.
And so we're quite excited about the situation as it stands right now.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry just one last one.
In terms of the gross margin on the new line how does that compare to your fleet average? First we're not going to talk about the new line at all until Vegas.
And secondly we don't break out margins by line.
The next question in queue comes from Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The question I have is when you look at the Cloud in the first year in Europe how is it performing there versus the first year domestically? Well the Cloud has performed extremely well in Europe.
I think that the way that we rolled the Cloud out was different in Europe than how we rolled it out in the U.S.
The market size is different.
There is a slight difference in preference around firm versus soft in the U.S.
versus Europe.
Europe skews a little bit firmer.
It's not a night and day difference but it does skew a little bit firmer.
But every market that we put the Cloud in the Cloud did very well.
The Cloud on the international side of the business has done pretty much what we saw in the U.S.
It has significantly expanded our market reach.
It really helped grow the business.
And then in combination as Mark said in his comments the markets where we had a combination of the Cloud and the advertising we saw a really dynamic growth.
Because as we build the consumer interest they were more likely to have a product in the store that they like because we have 3 different feels.
So it really -- the advertising and the Cloud together really built on each other well.
And I think I mean I think it's one of the things that is in some ways even more important in international than it is in the U.S.
It's the fact that people perceive -- the average consumer perceive that there was only one TEMPUR.
And this was a very much another TEMPUR.
And what has been exciting is about how fast it has rolled out but also as a result how much of a benefit it has gained in France [ph].
Because what people -- what the retailers in international in Europe in particular focused on is what we call the collections which is the original TEMPUR the Cloud and the Sensation.
And this has been a very important key change in sort of strategic perspective on what Tempur is.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my second question is I guess 5 or 6 years ago you guys did the Original that was at $1 200.
And how much of a percentage of sales did that generate at that point in time? And how would that really differ versus what you're doing today at the $1 500 price point? The Original was the product that frankly was candidly just -- an existing product that then was de-spec-ed in order to sell it for a lower price.
It was never very successful.
I would encourage you to come to Vegas and see what we've done here.
This is a completely different thing.
And the degree of product development research and development new product or new technology invention and the consumer research is unparalleled.
So I would really encourage you to come to Vegas and see it and I think it will answer that question.
Next question in queue is from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You referred in the prepared comments to a different dealer incentive structure I believe is what you phrased it.
Can you give any more details what that means? I'm not going to go into great detail on this again and I sounded a little bit like a broken record.
I'll talk about it in Vegas.
But here's the bottom line as we have over time increased our gross margin which we had systematically year-after-year we have a -- it sort of a win-win game for us in the retail.
And making sure that as we grow a share of the market not only did the retailers' share in that growth from a top line but also from a bottom-line perspective.
And so we are looking at ways.
And we have done this before but we are once again the modification for the way the promotion are going to be structured is going to enable us to give retailers a greater profitability from selling TEMPUR which is exciting and it's part of what we believe is part of our long-term win-win process as we grow over time.
But I'm not going to go into more detail with that but I'll be happy to do it in Vegas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's for 2012 in the program is that correct? Yes that's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Dale for 2012 you've broken up as you were giving the details regarding it did you say something on gross margin for 2012? Yes.
We expect gross margin to be up about 200 points.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 200 basis points okay.
And [indiscernible] margin to be up about 100 points.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then final question on the increased advertising you mentioned earlier is there going to be a new campaign besides the Ask Me campaign or just an ad -- further development of that? Well first of all remember that the Ask Me campaign is the American campaign.
There's one in the rest -- there's a variation of that in most of the rest of the world.
And that's because there's a different status of knowledge about the product than most of the rest of the world.
But the Ask Me campaign still has a very good legs.
We'll continue to evolve it.
As I said in the prepared comments not only is it a good tool not only does it work well it is customizable and we can change it and incorporate new messages.
And we found out that it was quite powerful when we used Cloud for example or the Ergo base.
So we will continue to use it.
At some stage we'll move and we'll change it but it would take a lot of thought and as you can imagine a lot of research before we're going to do that because this has been a real winner.
And in that case we will go to Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Dale just -- somebody just asked about gross margin with the 200 basis points.
I just want to clarify something you said in the initial comments so it sounds like the drivers to that will be the manufacturing efficiencies offset by some higher input costs? Were there any other components I may have missed? Yes.
For gross margin in 2012 the drivers are as you said basically our productivity initiatives continuing to drive impact in the business.
We will also see some improvement from volume leverage.
We're talking about reasonable growth here and that more volumes to the factories gives us volume leverage.
As Mark mentioned there's a price increase that will be -- it's not as big an impact as we've seen in the last couple of years but will be a small positive benefit of price.
On the flip side the primary negative that we're dealing with right now is commodity -- our expectations around commodities.
And that's just -- we try to take a negative view on commodities every year as we start the year and that's served us well over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it looks like I guess within that or you've been anticipating that mix will be somewhat accretive overall to your gross margin for the year? Mix is a component of gross margin and right now we think that the mix is overall kind of fairly neutral.
Research Division</strong> For 2012? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what about -- just to stay in the same theme for Q4 it sounds like it's one of the key margin drivers.
What was the main component of that mix benefit? On the mix benefit essentially on a year-over-year basis you had -- last year we were rolling out the Cloud Luxe.
Now the Cloud Luxe is well-established.
It's a product that performs very well in the U.S.
market.
So Cloud Luxe is certainly a positive mix driver in the business.
On the international side we saw actually a little bit of negative mix because units were growing faster than dollars but that was related to a new futon product that was rolling out in Japan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is the Contour line playing the mix at all cause that replaced the...
Yes absolutely Contour -- I shouldn't have forgotten Contour.
That absolutely is a positive mix driver.
The Contour is performing very well.
As Mark said it's exceeded our expectations.
But the Contour itself as a line is a little bit higher priced than what it replaced.
So that is a positive mix driver that we've seen in the 3Q and 4Q also.
Our next question is from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just have a -- I guess a little bit bigger picture question on your dealers.
How are your dealers thinking about allocation of space to premium and maybe more specific specialty? And I'm just thinking of that in the context of kind of the Cloud which was highly incremental in terms of slots per store for you.
And with the rollout of the new products in 2012 presumably we're looking for that to be incremental as well.
But just trying to understand if the mix shift occurs within the business how receptive the retailers are to kind of moving in this direction and opening up more slots and not just for Tempur but for others who are looking to play more broadly in the space? Well as I said a little earlier I think that the thing that is happening is that people are -- consumers are increasingly prepared to invest in superior premium mattresses where they are confident that they can sleep and it will improve the quality of their sleep.
And I think that trend is going to continue.
And as you know we're talking about these new products of $1 499.
As you know premium -- the traditional breakpoint of premium is $1 000.
So obviously clearly into the premium mattress arena.
But I also know that I think there is a large proportion of the consumers who -- and this the purpose of this price point will want to compete -- or will want to consider a bed that are superior but can't reach all the way to the highest levels of premium.
And so I think that retailers will give space to those things that will appeal to their consumer base.
And I think that there's a lot of room -- I think there's a lot of room there.
In fact that historical -- recently over the last period 12 to 24 months the growth in the industry has come from the premium.
And the lowest end of it the lowest price points this is an area where retailers and consumers are looking for opportunity to drive more growth.
And consumers will come if there's something that is fairly superior and meets their needs and it's designed for them.
So I think slots will follow volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick question just on the multiyear cost-saving program I think it just completed year 3 of that program.
And I'm just wondering kind of where you are from kind of the 700 basis points of targeted cost savings? And should we think about that kind of terminating at the end of 2012 or it's just kind of one step in the process that extends beyond that? Yes good question.
And we are not focused anymore on that 700 basis points improvement.
We're approaching it and in 2012 we'll basically hit that.
But the program has changed over time.
It is now a continuous program.
There's not a specific goal.
The goal is every year were going to find ways to improve the cost and drive cost out of the business and help improve margins funding the growth initiatives that the business is undertaking.
So the team is doing a great job they've got great plans well into the future in terms of the directions they're going to go and how they're going to get there.
Some of these things take time because even if you have a great idea and you go do it and it appears to work you have to then put test products through life cycle testing to make sure you're not impacting the properties or the feel or the durability of the product.
So everything that we do from a cost standpoint is fully embedded.
There's a long runway of opportunity ahead of us on this program.
The next question comes from Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide an update on the Cloud expansion internationally sort of where you are? And if there are any marketers or doors where you guys are still not quite there so that should be a tailwind for your international growth? And also talk about whether or not there's an international product launch component for Vegas? Well first of all on the Cloud for international.
The Cloud is still on its first year.
Remember first of all the Cloud is still in its first year of launch anywhere and internationally.
And it takes 12 to 18 months just to get seated.
And then as you can see in the U.S.
we're continuing to grow Cloud.
Everywhere where it is it's relatively new.
And there's still a lot of opportunity in countries throughout where it's already been launched.
But for example in the U.K.
it was only launched in the fourth quarter of last year.
So it's still in the U.K.
it's a very new phenomenon.
And there are other countries where that's true as well.
So I would consider Cloud essentially halfway through its rollout.
That's how I think about it.
And in terms of new product introduction in general we will -- we don't do international new product announcement at Vegas because we don't have international customers from Vegas in general they're very few.
We'll attempt to do that in forums more convenient for retailers in the countries that we're selling in in Europe and in Asia.
But right -- there is no major product announcement like what we're going to show in Vegas next week for international currently scheduled.
Although I believe that there are many things in the pipeline.
Research Division</strong> My other question was it's been a little while since you guys have acquired one of your third-party distributors.
Is that still part of the strategy? Yes.
So we acquired Korea in July so 6 months is not a long time.
But absolutely that is a part of the ongoing international growth strategy continuing to expand markets.
The third-party distributor network is a good way to see the market get in get started.
As we see that there's an opportunity where we think that the market is a growth potential is not doing what we think we could do with it then there are -- periodically we'll take one over.
But that is something that we will continue to do into the future at the appropriate time.
It's not something that we per se schedule out and it's certainly not something we'll talk about in advance of getting deals done.
I show a follow-up question from Eric Hollowaty of Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes Dale earlier in response to your question I believe you said that the new $1 499 Queen product would be hitting stores starting in the second quarter this year.
Is it reasonable to assume that the rollout for this domestically might look much as it did for something like the Cloud where it was kind of an 18 months type of time frame? Or might it be closer to something like the Contour which was more of a fast track or might it be somewhere in between? Any color you can provide on that.
Yes I would think it would be more in between.
The Cloud is more of an extended rollout and is one product at that time.
Here we're rolling out a collection but it's new.
The Contour was very concentrated because it was a new collection but it was replacing existing products on the floor.
So it was both in ours and the retailers' interest to make that transition very quick and swift and it went very well.
So the new product line will be somewhere in between.
Not quite as fast as the Contour but it would not -- should not take hopefully as long as the Cloud.
And I show a follow-up from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to confirm the $1 499 you're referring to is that for a Queen set on one of the new models? Correct.
And ladies and gentlemen unfortunately I'm sure we are out of time for questions on today's call.
I would like to turn the program back to our presenters for any concluding remarks.
We look forward to talking everybody again in February when we host the Investor Day which we hope many of you will be able to join us in New York but thank you for joining us this evening.
Have a nice evening everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating on today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the TEMPUR-Pedic First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
Now I would like to turn the program over to Mark Rupe.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales and earnings involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including the company's annual report on Form 10-K under the headings Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligations to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
We're pleased with our first quarter we're off to a good start to the year.
Sales were up 18% and earnings per share were up 26%.
On a constant-currency basis North American sales increased 18% and international sales increased 22%.
In a few moments Dale will provide details of the first quarter results as well as discuss our outlook for 2012.
But first I'd like to talk about the progress we've made on our key strategic initiatives during the quarter.
The first of these initiatives is to make sure that everyone knows that they would sleep better on TEMPUR.
As we discussed at our Investor Day in February our investment in brand advertising is a key driver of our future growth.
We know that increasing recent advertising results in a higher TEMPUR brand awareness which in turn drives increased sales share and profitability.
And we said we were going to significantly increase our investment in advertising in 2012 and during the first quarter we did just that.
Our advertising was a record $47 million with considerable year-over-year growth both in North America and in our key international markets.
In the U.S.
we significantly expanded our heavy-up marketing program.
Internationally we increased our brand advertising investment in Germany France and the United Kingdom and introduced TV campaigns into additional markets including Italy and Australia.
While it is still early these marketing campaigns are showing positive results with brand awareness purchase consideration and website traffic growing in line with plan.
In particular strong performance in our key international markets during the quarter proves that our advertising investment continues to be successful.
However while our confidence is high that these investments will continue to be effective we will also continue to monitor the results closely and adjust as necessary.
The second of our initiatives is to make sure that there's a TEMPUR mattress and pillow that appeals to everyone by expanding and strengthening our product line.
In the U.S.
we introduced the TEMPUR-Simplicity Collection at the Las Vegas market in the late January and just recently begun shipping the product to customers.
As we discussed in detail at the Investor Day TEMPUR-Simplicity is the most researched product we have ever launched and addresses a very large market segment that we have not previously targeted in a meaningful way.
At $1 499 for a Queen set the 3 bed collection with soft medium and firm comfort options addresses the $1 000 to $2 000 price plan a segment which has the same dollar value as all the segments above $2 000 added together.
While it remains very early we're pleased with the performance we've seen so far.
Retailer feedback continues to be very positive and we've gained considerable incremental margin.
Internationally we continued the successful rollout of the Cloud Collection as well as just introduced the Sensation deluxe model in certain markets.
These launches are part of our collection selling strategy which drives both slot growth and broadens our addressable market.
Our third strategic initiative is to make sure that TEMPUR is available to everyone by gaining broad high-quality distribution.
During the first quarter we continued to add distribution and slots both in North America and internationally and expect additional gains throughout the balance of the year Simplicity being a large contributor.
The recent launch of our new Elite Retailer program is also expected to support and contribute to our distribution network.
Lastly we want to make sure that we continue to deliver the best sleep by investing in R&amp;D and consumer research.
We did that too during the first quarter.
We significantly increased our R&amp;D spend both on new product development as well as breakthrough new technologies.
So we've made solid progress on all these initiatives in the first quarter.
And before I hand over to Dale I just like to make a couple of contextual comments.
As I said I'm pleased with our results.
We have continued to grow our top and bottom line substantially.
However as anticipated there have been significant new competitive launches and aggressive price promotion in the industry as it has moved increasingly toward non-spring mattresses.
Our major initiatives this year brand advertising integrated retailer advertising the new TEMPUR-Simplicity line and improved dealer margins will all strengthen our competitive position.
The impact of these initiatives will largely be felt in the second quarter and beyond.
We remain very confident in our long-term strategy for growth based on our commitment to providing superior sleep.
People who sleep on TEMPUR sleep better than those who don't.
And our sustained significant investment in consumer advertising making sure that everyone knows they would sleep better on TEMPUR.
We will continue on our path toward our goal of $2 billion in sales by 2014 and to our recently introduced 5-year goal of $3 billion by 2016 through a continued focus on execution of our strategic initiatives.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the financials and our 2012 guidance.
Let's begin with an overview.
In total first quarter net sales were $384 million an increase of 18% over the same period last year.
On a constant-currency basis net sales increased 19%.
North American net sales were up 17% and international net sales increased 19%.
On a constant-currency basis international net sales increased 22%.
Now by channel.
In North American retail net sales were $242 million an increase of 16%.
Our North American direct channel increased by 35% to $24 million.
Internationally retail sales were $96 million up 26% and up 29% on a constant-currency basis.
By product mattress sales were up 18% driven by a 17% increase in units.
North American mattress sales increased 15% on a 12% increase in units.
In the international segment mattress sales increased 26% driven by a 26% unit increase.
On a constant currency basis international mattress sales were up 29%.
Total pillow sales increased by 20% on an 18% increase in units.
North American pillow sales increased 22% on a unit growth of 19%.
International pillow sales were up 17% on a 17% increase in units.
On a constant-currency basis international pillow sales increased 19%.
Sales of our other products which include items that are normally sold along with the mattress grew up 18% in total and up 23% North America and 4% internationally.
Gross margin for the quarter was 53.6% up 130 basis points year-on-year and up 150 basis points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis gross margin improved related to the following: improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution related to our productivity program; and fixed cost leverage related to higher production volumes.
These benefits were partially offset by a higher new product cost.
On a sequential basis gross margin increased 150 basis points as a result of the lack of cost associated with U.S.
shipments to support our Danish manufacturing facility improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution related to our productivity programs and fixed cost leverage related to higher production volumes.
Our European factory produced at record levels during the first quarter and did not experience any subsequent system-related issues.
In line with our plan gross margin improvement was more than offset by a significant investment in advertising during the first quarter.
We increased advertising by 37% to a record $47 million or 12.3% of sales compared to $34 million or 10.6% of sales in the first quarter of 2011.
We also invested heavily in R&amp;D during the first quarter which was up 47% year-over-year.
These investments are the cornerstone of our key strategic initiatives and thus will remain an investment focus of the company.
Our first quarter operating profit was $86.1 million or 22.4%.
Interest expense was $4.1 million.
The tax rate was 31.1% down reflecting a net benefit of $2 million from the resolution of foreign tax matters.
Earnings per share was $0.86 as compared to $0.68 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
Our accounts receivable balance was up reflecting sales levels however our DSOs were down 1 day from last year.
Inventories were up $26 million year-on-year or 36% partly due to the planned build for the planned rollout of Simplicity and the increased volumes.
Payables were down 4 days due to timing.
During the quarter we generated $45 million of operating cash flow and capital expenditures were $7 million.
We lowered debt by $20 million to $565 million.
Share repurchases during the period were 0.2 million shares for a total cost of $12 million.
Our remaining authorization under our existing share repurchase program is $238 million.
Our cash balance increased by $23 million to $134 million.
Funded debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.4x slightly below our targeted range of 1.5 to 2x.
Now I'd like to address our guidance.
We are confirming our 2012 financial guidance.
We expect net sales to range from $1.6 billion to $1.65 billion and we expect earnings per share to range from $3.80 to $3.95 per diluted share.
We project our gross margin for the full-year to be up as much as 200 basis points at the high-end of our guidance range and slightly less than this at the low end.
Our gross margin projections assume continued productivity and volume leverage partially offset by higher commodity cost.
Also as a reminder our 2011 gross margin was negatively impacted by 50 basis points due to the system upgrade issues incurred in our Danish facility.
However in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter we're expecting gross margin [indiscernible] to be slightly down sequentially as we've accelerated the Simplicity core model rollout and faced slightly higher commodity cost than previously expected.
We project our operating margins for the full year to be -- to expand nearly 100 basis points at the high-end of our guidance range despite our continued investment in strategic initiatives to drive long-term growth.
However in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter we are expecting operating margins to contract modestly as we further accelerate investments in advertising and R&amp;D.
We continue to anticipate interest expense for the full-year to be approximately $19 million.
We anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $50 million which includes the cost of our new office in Lexington.
We continue to anticipate the full-year tax rate to be approximately 33.3%.
Given the slight reduction in our share count during the first quarter we are now expecting 65.7 million shares for the full-year.
This share count does not assume any benefit from a potential further reduction in shares outstanding related to the company's purchase program.
In conclusion our guidance continues to reflect the business long year with many strategic initiatives and products that are just underway.
Therefore we believe it is prudent to plan the remainder of the year as I have outlined.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside of the company's control.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question in queue comes from John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to touch on the product launch drag on gross margins in the quarter.
Is that due to factory issues in terms of making the new product? Or is there also selling of samples at a lower cost in there? Yes primarily John it's related to starting up in the factory.
We -- as I mentioned in the inventory we built a lot of inventory on Simplicity.
So we had to through the startup process.
We had to get the product out into our distribution system because we wanted to have a very quick launch here in April.
We did have a few products go out a little bit early but not a lot.
And but so primarily as related to just getting started up and getting the warehouses ready and in place to hold the Simplicity inventory for a very quick launch here in the second quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so just Dale the as a follow-up here does the margin gross margin pressure related to Simplicity shift in Q2 to the sample sales? Or do we still have lingering impact from manufacturing? Or do we offset all of that with sales unit gains from the product because it will be fully placed in the selling? Yes the manufacturing startup that's just kind of a one-time first batch kind of issues that you run into with new formulas and brand-new products.
But -- so we feel very good about the production of Simplicity.
So essentially as I mentioned in my remarks we're accelerating this rollout.
We said it would be 6 to 9 months.
We now think it's going to be 6 months or less in terms of getting Simplicity out and it's going to be actually even more heavily weighted into the second quarter than what we had anticipated at the beginning of the year as customers want it.
Our next question in queue comes from Jessica Schoen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had a question.
You mentioned the current environment right now and the competitive changes that you've seen happening and you talked a little bit about some initiatives and starting to see the impact in 2Q.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit more detail on what those initiatives are.
And what the themes in the environment that you're seeing that has led to that.
Well what we're hearing from customers across the country and we've been hearing this for some time now is that there's an increasingly fast movement in premium mattresses away from spring mattresses towards what I call specialty mattresses which obviously we're the leader in our channel.
And as this has happened there's obviously been -- our competitors have noticed and they have started to participate.
The initiatives that we're focused on though are obviously the launch of the Simplicity which is a very important product for us because it greatly broadens the range of consumers who we target.
It targets this group people between -- who are willing to pay between $1 000 and $2 000.
So that's one very big initiative.
The second one is our integrated advertising working with our retailers there to make sure theirs and our advertising is coordinated and effectively working together.
And of course our brand advertising itself is a very important part of the initiatives that are driving growth.
And finally as we've made some changes to our promotional structures so that it makes Tempur-Pedic more profitable for our retailers to sell.
So those are the key initiatives that we're working on.
Research Division</strong> And then when you look at the market and you see a lot of that outsize growth coming from the popularity of specialty mattresses what kind of expectations do you have for the rest of the year? How the market will continue to trend? Well projecting the market is always a tricky thing to do which we try to avoid.
But the -- what I think we honestly I think the big thing which is quite significant and I mean I know this from our own experience here at TEMPUR but from speaking to a lot of retailers what is happening is that this move to specialty is something that is going to continue.
And it's more than simply a move one for the other because what it means is that consumers are trading up.
Consumers are prepared to spend more on a good night's sleep which is a pretty fundamental change.
So we see this as being something that's going to continue to happen it's going to continue to be good for consumers for retailers and for us.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask on the growth in U.S.
mattresses.
We saw one of your competitors out the other night.
Where do you think you stack?  Are you just in the middle of a product cycle? Or where do you think this looks versus your long-term growth rate? Well I'm not quite sure what you mean by long-term growth rate -- what we're -- as we look at the market we're up 18% this quarter on top of very significant growth last year and consistent with our growth projections for the full-year.
So we feel pretty good about it.
And as we look at the industry as a whole we think that the industry is certainly back from the doldrums that it's been in.
But as we look forward for our full year we're pretty confident that we're going to continue to gain share as we have been for the past years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in the first quarter did you gain share in specialty? In specialty probably not.
But remember that's a challenge when you think that in it -- for a long time we were a very dominant player.
As new people come in the dominant player is always going to be impacted disproportionately.
We look at it as a share of total category.
And in that we believe we will continue to grow.
Keith it's Dale.
Let me add a couple of points on your first question in terms that you were asking what the long term growth rate.
In February at our Investor Day we talked about reiterated and talked about the $2 billion growth plan obviously to hit $2 billion in 2014 we have to compound growth at 12%.
We talked about a $3 billion growth plan for 20 -- to be $3 billion in 2016.
That requires a 16% compound growth rate.
So we have certainly a lot of plans around products and a lot of plans around how we go to market to drive the growth of this business.
And this is a global growth goal it's not just a North America goal.
So we feel very good about where we're at and our position on that.
As to your second question on share within specialty we've said for as long as I've been with this business the long-term goal here the long-term gain is not to necessarily maintain our share specialty.
We want specialty to become -- gain share in the market and we expect to lose some share of specialty along that way.
But if specialty is 20% of the market and we're 70% of specialty that's nice but we would much rather be 50% or 45% of specialty and specialty be 50% of the market.
That's a much better equation for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I get what you're saying.
And just one one quick one on internationally -- outstanding numbers there.
Is that the influence of the Cloud? Yes the Cloud and the advertising really working over there building the brand awareness.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
I guess first just going back to your comments earlier on competition.
You've had competition in the space for a while I think you've had some branded competition in the space for almost a year now.
Is there something that's changed in the landscape in the last 3 months or so? Is the competition getting more price competitive? Have there been new entrants in the last 3 months? Or has something changed recently that that's caused you to sort of tone down your comments today? The -- obviously there's been competition forever and the competition we've always said is very strong.
I think that what's happened not over the last 3 months but over the last 12 18 months is that as the recognition has come that specialty as Dale said is trending towards being probably 50% of the market in dollars.
Everybody is going to participate in that.
And so that is that's going to that has happened and will continue to happen.
As we and this is a this is in fact in some ways a something that's been driven to a large extent as the new people come in by being very promotional and very focused on price we intend to maintain our focus on making sure that we're focused on the consumer making sure that our products are right for the consumer and that our communication is or our investment in marketing is largely on direct consumer communication.
But this is what we have long anticipated as the market shift.
And I think it's as I said it's a 12 to 18 months phenomenon not a 3 month phenomenon.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then secondly in terms of accelerating rolling out of Simplicity just to be clear it sounds like the rationale or driving reason for that is simply the fact that retailers want it faster.
Is there anything else that's causing that? That and the fact that the buildup was quicker than we -- we always put a certain amount of conservatism as we plan building of a new product just to get it on sale the same.
It's a new manufacturing process getting everything right and so on.
So we put a little bit of conservatism in it.
Our Supply Chain guys were ahead of schedule and the demand was very high and so we were able to move it -- we've essentially moved the rollout schedule earlier largely driven by demand but also by our ability to meet that demand.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the sales in the domestic segment.
Mark I was hoping you could just talk a little bit about performance by different price points.
Was there anything that you saw differently among your lower-priced models or by any channels that you sell in or anything that maybe points more to the competitive or promotional landscape in terms of how your sales played out? We don't -- as you know we don't split our sales by price point but as we've said before and I can reiterate it again this quarter not really.
I mean there's no systematic differences in the distribution of sales by price point this quarter versus prior quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of Simplicity at this stage I know it's started shipping we've seen in retailers.
You've talked in the past about the ability to gain hopefully 2 or more incremental slots.
Is that still something that you could see? How are you feeling about the order process at this point? I mean it's extremely early.
So everything I said about Simplicity has to be caveated by that.
But the initial plans the initial rollout plans what retailers have agreed to does seem to be consistent with that plan to get 2 or so incremental slots.
So what -- we'll see it when we see it.
And -- but that is what people are going to that's what we're rolling out to that's what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay I think I just -- maybe squeeze one more in here.
In terms of the investment in advertising I mean if we were to really nitpick here this is one of the lower sales quarters that we've seen in a while on a lower contribution margins in a while admittedly you have a exciting new product coming out.
But are you seeing the returns that you want to see still on that incremental advertising dollar investment? We are but we -- and as I said in my prepared comments we are and -- but we monitor it very very closely.
One of the things though you have to realize is that advertising doesn't pay for itself on the day you do it.
It has to be over a period of time.
And this obviously is the lowest -- the proportion of promotional times which is when advertising is most effective and when our heavy ups are coordinated there's a limited amount in the first quarter.
So it is consistent with it but we monitor it very carefully.
I mean one of the things that we that is kind of a leading indicator is web hits.
And so it's true in America and it's true in the rest of the world.
Web hits are a good indicator of whether advertising is breaking through.
And I think I saw data that we're well above 50% higher on web hits this quarter than we were last quarter and we believe that's very driven by advertising.
I mean sorry by this quarter than we were first quarter last year.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the guidance.
By my math the top line guidance of $1.6 billion to $1.65 billion kind of implies growth through the balance of the year somewhat below what you experienced in the first quarter.
And I guess with and at the launch of Simplicity the benefit of the incremental advertising spending it's not immediately intuitive to me why that might be the case.
Is there just that -- this is more to do with conservatism because we're early in the year? Or is there something else we're seeing there? Well yes I would say in regards to Simplicity we have a plan for Simplicity while we're accelerating the rollout of Simplicity we haven't changed the plan that we had for the year in terms of what Simplicity would to at this stage.
It's only been in the market for a couple weeks.
It's really only been in floors for a week and half or so.
It's way too early to have a gauge of what Simplicity's going to do.
It's way too early to know what the real benefit of the heavy ups' going to be.
We're just embarking here as Mark said a lot of the programs are just kicking in here in the second quarter and yes we have had ideas in our planning for the year of what the benefit of those programs like the integrated advertising et cetera would do for us.
But they're just starting.
So there's no basis to change whatever our original plans were.
One other thing that I would comment on from a total year standpoint at the start of the year we thought FX would be fairly neutral this year.
It proved to be a headwind in the first quarter based on how the euro specifically is trading it doesn't look -- and the continued uncertainty around the -- particularly the European markets we're performing very well there.
But you read the headlines in the news as much as we do and there's still a significant uncertainty as to what the economy is really economies over there are really doing.
So we're trying to be a little bit cautious.
We've built in -- FX now going to be headwinds for the year.
We'll see pressure from FX as the year goes on.
We'll also continue to be concerned about the overall macro environment in Europe.
So I think it's a function of not enough has changed to change  our plans for the year.
We don't have the evidence and proof points yet because most of the major initiatives for the program for the year are just starting.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up.
I don't want to beat it to death but on competition I know we've kind of talked in the past about the competitors have had specialty offerings in the marketplace with varying degrees of success.
It kind of sounds like and looks like based on the some of the industry growth rates that might be getting more traction.
If -- you think is there a different approach that's a being taken by some of your competitors better in-store presence better marketing? Or I'm just trying to kind of get a better handle on why there may be more traction in the premium area? And I think the -- as I said there's simple -- the really kind of astonishing change in the world is that specialty is being accepted as being the bulk of what business above $1 000 is going to be.
And as you look at it like that and what it means is it's the retailers themselves who say "Well in that case." I'll -- that opens their ears to that.
It also provides us an opportunity.
But I think the fundamental change is in that.
I think that there is a recognition and a trend that has a started to accelerate which is causing obviously the competitors who participate but for the retailers to be more to have had the justification for the space on their floors.
I mean it's something that we've talked about for a long time and it's happening something like we expected.
The next question in queue comes from Joan Storms with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Mark you had mentioned earlier and I want to make sure I got the comment right about obviously because of the product rollout in particular in the U.S.
that business is likely to accelerate.
Obviously you have some of these headwinds on the raw material cost and the FX but just due to the rollout is it Simplicity in the extra slots that the we should see some acceleration of business in the Q2 through the Q4? What I said was that we have a lot of initiatives which are essentially kicking in Q2 to through Q4.
And as Dale said I mean we made our guidance for the year 3 months ago and we're not modifying it even though we're slightly ahead of -- in terms of topline growth and where we thought we'd be.
But the fact is that we don't -- all of these not all but these initiatives are still extremely early in their rollout.
It's too early for us to change our expectations of these things.
So as we stand here today we think it's the best way to look forward is to stick to what we had originally thought and that's what we're doing.
So we're excited to see them we're watching them with great anticipation but at the moment that we it seems appropriate and our projections say that the best projection we can make is our guidance.
Research Division</strong> I mean most of the early channel checks we've done on a roll out of Simplicity as then a lot -- most of the stores you're taking in the entire 3 beds so far.
So are those part of like the elite dealer program companies that you're servicing first during the rollout? Forgive me I didn't quite hear what you said.
Say that again? Saying 3 beds.
Research Division</strong> On the -- most of our early channel checks that you've done on the rollout of Simplicity a lot of the stores are the taking all 3 slots for that line and I didn't know if you can -- are those customers or retailers part of the elite program that get the product first? Or how does that work? Well as I said in order for us to gain an average of 2 in total the majority of people have to take 3 so it's going to have to be it's not a big surprise.
We -- people are the majority of the people are saying that they want to take 2 or more.
That you're just -- I'm sorry we just heard a buzzing sound I don't know what that was.
It comes as a surprise to me that you're seeing 3 in the stores you're visiting.
Our next question in queue is from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just Dale one specific question.
I think in the last quarter guidance you said that gross margin would be up modestly and it was up pretty nicely.
I know you talked about the efficiencies and yet some new product drag.
So maybe you could can give us a little bit of additional color on that? Well we had obviously on a sequential basis it felt like we were through and we said that we were through the Danish facility issue.
But you never know absolutely until you go a few months make sure that everything is going as it's appears to be.
But as I mentioned in my comments we did not have any lingering Danish support needs from the U.S.
So that's a positive.
We had very good productivity build and response and while we had a little bit of startup cost around Simplicity actually the start up cost were a little bit less than what we thought they would be.
So basically from a gross margin standpoint where we saw very good performance in terms of what our plans are and what our outlook was.
We are projecting and seeing some chemical pressure in the balance of the year from what we expected at the start of the year.
Budd you've mentioned a couple of times that you've heard of more price increases and stuff and yes we've built in some more chemical pressure into our outlook.
We think that that will give us a little bit of headwind in the second quarter.
But because of the performance that we're getting on our cost improvement programs we think that we can offset that in the second half and actually get back whole for the year which is why even with higher chemical costs we're not changing our outlook for gross margins for the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you could you give us little bit more color you talked about the revenue guidance I was struck and I think John got a little bit to this.
The revenue guidance is unchanged I recognize it still is early in the year.
You are accelerating Simplicity which would have said you should have gotten a little bit more revenue as that gets placed earlier and has longer to get a season going on retailer's floors.
You did talk about a little bit of FX headwinds.
So maybe if you could quantify the FX headwind and is that what is offset by the accelerated revenues from Simplicity? Is that the right way to look at it? Or it -- those are the 2 major moving parts? Yes I mean those are the 2 major moving parts.
And again even though we're accelerating the floor model rollout of Simplicity we're not changing the sell-through assumptions of Simplicity per se just because we haven't sold much yet.
We don't have a broad response or input back in terms of how it's performing in the market we've heard some good anecdotal things.
But until we get some time with it we're not going to change our plans around Simplicity.
We are anticipating ongoing FX pressure.
In the first quarter it cost us I guess globally about 1 point I think for the full-year we're expecting it to cost us a couple of points.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 2 points or more? Yes probably 2.
On the international side outstanding first quarter 22%.
Constant currency growth in the first quarter so very pleased with the performance overseas.
But still concerned about the economies particularly in Europe and the comps go get tougher as the year goes on as we're comping the Cloud.
We started rolling out the Cloud internationally just late in the first quarter last year and then it built and built throughout the year.
So that the comps do get tougher as the year goes on.
So we're not necessarily expecting an acceleration of growth and we said at the beginning of the year we saw it for the year the growth rate between U.S.
and international would be more balanced.
So those are of all of the factors that we're looking at.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Now you did -- I'll sneak one final one in there.
You did I think last quarter say that the Simplicity inclusion in 2012 guidance was modest.
Could you give us maybe a little bit more color of what's included in the 160 to 165 the -- for Simplicity this year? We're not going to get into the exact specifics of how much Simplicity we expect to sell.
But it is still a relatively modest expectation.
It's not going to become our expectation for this year's it's not going to become the whole driver of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> About there in terms of growth rate is there any way to characterize it in terms of the delta of the growth rate? No we don't want to get into that.
Our next question is from Leah Villalobos with Longbow Research.
This is Josh Borstein in for Leah.
You implemented some pricing in early April and did you see any pull forward in demand ahead of that increase? Really no.
One of the key things about this price increase you always see a little bit.
But this one was very different than how we have typically done price increases.
This price increase was relatively small.
It was actually fairly heavily weighted to non-high volume sizes twins kings where queen is by far the highest volume.
So the price increases were on in areas where the retailers are less likely to try to take advantage of it.
Also the flip side of that is some of the new programs that we introduced that start off in the second quarter that are geared around volume actually kind of counterbalance any potential impact of trying to get a benefit from the price increase.
Last year we had a sizable price increase in March on the Cloud Supreme and which is our highest volume unit.
So on a year-over-year basis the price increase impact was significantly different.
Okay so how should we think about ASP going forward for the year in the U.S.? You have a little bit of pricing you said from the April price increase that presumably is going to be offset by some lower price points from the Simplicity.
Just I'm thinking about "Hey it's ASP for the year." How should we think about that? Yes for the year I believe we said that we thought is on the North America side of the business we thought that ASPs would be flat.
Because of the impact of Simplicity.
Okay.
And then if I could just sneak one in a housecleaning question.
The -- could you update us on the door count for the U.S.
and internationally? Yes let's see.
Domestic door count 7 700 I've got international looks like 5 300.
Okay and that 7 700 was that -- does that include Canada? No that's just U.S.
Canada there's -- the door count doesn't change much.
It's about 400 doors in Canada.
The next question is from Eric Hollowaty with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dale could you just reiterate what your guidance was on gross margin for the second quarter? You guys cut out I think when you were giving that out.
Okay.
Yes I said for the second quarter I expect sequentially from 1Q to 2Q gross margins to be down a little bit because of the impact of the heavy floor model rollout of Simplicity and chemical prices are up.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And the international excuse me the advertising expense increase in the quarter could you give us perspective on whether that was fairly evenly weighted U.S.
versus international in percentage terms or how did that sort of play out? Yes in terms of percentage of revenue the international spend is was higher in the first quarter as a percentage of our revenue there.
And that's been the case for a while in terms of growth rate of advertising.
It was a slightly higher growth rate in the U.S.
but not dramatically different in terms of growth rates in advertising between the 2 sides.
Because the U.S.
is catching up a little bit.
Last year the U.S.
was spending 10%-ish and picked it up this year to 11% and change and international which was spending at a higher over 12% last year is now over 13%.
Our next question is from Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about what percentage of your existing clients actually took on the Simplicity? And then what the speedup of the rollout in the U.S.
Can you talk about when you guys are looking to put that out for your international segment? The vast majority I'm not going to give you an exact percentage of our customers who will be taking the Simplicity.
And as Dale said the rollout's going to be over essentially 6 months.
So starting from now 6 months.
There'll still be stragglers obviously but that's roughly what we expect and we're trying to get quite a bit of that into the second quarter.
In terms of when we'll launch it in international we will launch it we haven't announced to date when we'll do that but we do anticipate doing so.
It's just not appropriate to announce when.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to ask whether or not that would be this year or next? It won't be this year.
But I don't want to talk -- I won't be more specific than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
The other question I had was around your R&amp;D spend.
You didn't give the numbers but you did say that it was up almost 50%.
I'm trying to compare that with some comments you guys made in the second half of last year where you said that the Simplicity end up a -- being your biggest product from an addressable market standpoint but that you had a number of products that were ready to go.
I'm trying to understand when I think about the increases in spending that are sort of needed in the more competitive environment the new products that you have coming out potentially a next year roll out with the Simplicity worldwide I'm trying to understand why such a big increase in R&amp;D for you guys at this particular point? First of all as I first of all R&amp;D is crucial to us.
This is a very big important component of our overall business strategy.
We're committed to making sure that we have beds that people sleep better on.
And we do that from research product development.
So first of all it's the backbone of our business.
Secondly if you look at it as that amount of spend it's still in kind of big terms it's a relatively small amount it's less than 1% of our total sales.
So it's an important thing it's a large number but it's in the big scheme of things not a thing that greatly moves our P&amp;L.
But having said all that I think that the concept of making -- as I said and I have said and it is true that we have several things ready to roll and -- but that doesn't mean we're not working on more things.
And there are 2 parts of R&amp;D.
There is the product development side of it which is using existing technologies to create products to create new product.
And there is the development of new technology which enables new products.
And we do genuinely do both.
And so I can -- we cannot -- we're never going to say we got enough R&amp;D.
We're always going to think we're going to need more.
That's going to a continuing plan for us going forward.
And Josh from a specific number standpoint first quarter of '11 we spent 2.3 in R&amp;D and first quarter of '12 we spent 3.4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just sneak one more in.
Are there any stores where you guys are net or only are -- better that you're actually losing a slot to put the Simplicity in? I know it's not something that's really been talked about much but I'm wondering if there's a portion of your customers who are taking on 3 or so -- 2 or 3 Simplicitys but taking one other off of the floor? There's inevitably going to be some of those.
But the fact is that we're looking for as I've said in a net gain of 2.
So there's going to be averages some will take 3 I mean it'll average out but by the laws of specifics there's going to be some people like that.
And I do show that we are out of time for questions.
I would like to turn the call back to Mark for any concluding remarks.
Thanks very much.
Thanks everybody and we look forward to talking to you again in July when we'll host our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Tempur-Pedic's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call may be recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Mark Rupe.
Sir you may begin.
Good evening everyone.
Thanks for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales and earnings involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including the company's annual report on Form 10-K under their heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligations to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everybody and thanks for joining us.
As we previously communicated in early June changes in the competitive environment in North America during the second quarter had an adverse effect on our performance.
During the period there was a marked increase in the number of premium competitive products on many of our leading retailers' floors the majority of which were new offerings from our primary competitors who were supporting them with aggressive on-air and in-store marketing and incentives.
As a result and contrary to what we had expected we believe a material number of consumers who otherwise would have bought Tempur-Pedic ended up buying a competitive product.
Sales over all were down were 4% and earnings per share were down 41%.
On a constant-currency basis North American sales decreased 8% while international sales increased 17%.
In a few moments Dale will provide details of the second quarter results as well as discuss our outlook for 2012.
But first I'd like to briefly make some comments regarding the current situation.
As I noted there have been significant changes in the competitive environment for TEMPUR here in the U.S.
over the last few months.
Our strategic goal however is unchanged.
We intend to be the world's favorite mattress and pillow company and we are as committed to that as ever.
The key to our success to date and what will continue to be the key going forward is our systematic introduction of innovation year after year.
Our innovations grew our business grew the specialty category grew retailer average selling prices and most importantly broadened the Tempur consumer base by far the most satisfied owner group of any major brand.
Our innovations started with the original Tempur-Pedic line based on our proprietary Tempur material that created the revolution that has resulted today in a world in which the majority of premium mattresses are non-spring and no longer even considered specialty.
We then invented Tempur-HD technology that allowed us to create the Rhapsody bed a $3 500 product that for many years was our best-selling product and today is still one of our best sellers.
Just 3 years ago we created the TEMPUR-ES material the core component of the Cloud line which today is our biggest product line and one of the biggest in the industry.
And earlier this year we introduced the Simplicity line which is based on our new TEMPUR-Essential material.
From time to time over the years competitors have introduced products that competed with TEMPUR.
Most recently a series of products using gel-infused foam.
These gel products have had some success primarily driven by their lower prices and effective in-store marketing.
However they use an existing technology and the one that has proven to be ineffective in its central claim that it purports to help consumers sleep cooler.
Going forward we will continue to work with retailers to provide unique and consumer value products that allow them to improve their average retail selling prices and get a greater and greater number of consumers on TEMPUR beds.
In addition we will work with them to ensure that retailers' overall profitability is maximized by selling TEMPUR products.
We have been implementing a series of initiatives that will become increasingly apparent to the investment community over the next few weeks.
They include: Number one in Las Vegas next week we will introduce a host of new products that are differentiated from what's currently offered in the category proven to be preferred by consumers and that will raise average retail unit selling prices and we won't stop there though.
Our pipeline of innovative new products is very robust and you should expect to see a continuous stream of them coming to market in 2013 and thereafter.
Number two a comprehensive review of our consumer and wholesale prices our integrated advertising program and all our other consumer programs are customer programs that drive growth.
We intend to ensure that all our retail customers have every incentive to sell TEMPUR products.
And number three a continuation of our commitment to consumer advertising in-store as well as on TV and new copy supporting our new products.
Month-by-month we will evaluate the effectiveness of these initiatives and we will modify or change them as necessary.
We are committed to returning to growth and if in the short-term this requires some reduction in our overall margin we're prepared to accept that.
For obvious competitive reasons we will not be sharing specific details on these initiatives tonight.
We will however be unveiling several of them at next week's Industry Trade Show in Las Vegas.
To be clear though and as Dale will also discuss our financial outlook incorporates the initiatives I've just described.
In closing we know that people who sleep on TEMPUR sleep better than those who don't.
And so we're going to continue to focus on returning to growth by pursuing the 4 elements of strategy: Making sure that there's a TEMPUR that appeals to everyone; making sure that everyone knows that they would sleep better on TEMPUR; make sure that TEMPUR is available to everybody; and make sure that we continue to deliver the best sleep.
We are the leader in a large and growing category and we have significant growth opportunities here in North America as well as overseas.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the financials and our 2012 guidance.
Let's begin with an overview.
In total second quarter net sales were $329 million a decrease of 4% over the same period last year.
On a constant-currency basis net sales decreased 1%.
North American net sales were down 8% and international net sales increased 8%.
On a constant-currency basis international net sales increased 17%.
Now by channel in North American retail net sales were $206 million a decrease of 9%.
Our North American direct channel increased by 3% to $18 million.
Internationally retail sales were $82 million up 14% and up 24% on a constant-currency basis.
By product mattress sales were down 4% while units increased 1%.
North American mattress sales decreased 8% on a 6% decrease in units.
ASP declines were due primarily to the rollout of Simplicity core models and promotions.
In the International segment mattress sales increased 11% driven by a 15% unit increase.
On a constant-currency basis international mattress sales were up 20%.
Total pillow net sales decreased by 2% on a 1% decrease in units.
North American pillow sales decreased 10% on a unit decline of 9%.
International pillow sales were up 5% on a 9% increase in units.
On a constant-currency basis international pillow sales increased 12%.
Sales of our other products which include items that are normally sold along with the mattress were down 5% in total and down 8% in North America while up 4% internationally.
On a constant-currency basis International other sales increased 13%.
Gross margin for the quarter was 50.7% down 220 basis points year-on-year and down 290 basis points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis gross margin declined primarily due to the following: Increased promotions and discounts deleverage and product mix.
These impacts were partially offset by improved geographic mix.
On a sequential basis gross margin declined 290 basis points as a result of deleverage increased promotions and discounts and higher commodity costs.
Based on the lower-than-expected North American sales coupled with investments made during the quarter based on a plan that anticipate higher sales we experienced significant operating expense deleverage.
We increased advertising spend by 28% to $46 million or 13.9% of sales compared to $36 million or 10.4% of sales in the second quarter of 2011.
We also invested heavily in R&amp;D during the second quarter which was up 48% year-over-year.
It's also important to note that during the second quarter the company benefited from a favorable one-time adjustment of $2.5 million to the earn out payment related to a prior acquisition and a $1.6 million favorable one-time adjustment to long-term incentive stock compensation.
These items were reflected in G&amp;A.
Our second quarter operating profit was $47.5 million or 14.4%.
Interest expense was $4.2 million.
The tax rate was 33.6%.
EPS was $0.45 as compared to $0.76 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flows for a brief review.
Our accounts receivable balance was down reflecting sales levels.
DSOs were down 1 day from last year.
Inventories were up $20 million year-on-year or 23% principally due to the lower-than-expected second-quarter sales in North America.
Payables were up 3 days due to timing.
During the quarter we generated $42 million of operating cash flow and capital expenditures were $14 million.
We increased debt by $117 million to $682 million.
Share repurchases during the period were 4.9 million shares for a total cost of $138 million.
Our remaining authorization under our existing share repurchase program is $100 million.
Our cash balance remained flat at $134 million.
Funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.85x near the high-end of our targeted range of 1.5x to 2x.
We've evaluated this range.
In light of the current business environment we feel it is appropriate at this time.
I would like to address our updated financial guidance for 2012.
On June 6 2012 the company revised its full-year 2012 guidance.
Today the company maintained its outlook for full-year 2012 net sales to be approximately $1.43 billion.
In addition the company updated its full-year 2012 earnings guidance and currently expects diluted earnings-per-share to be approximately $2.80 principally reflecting a lower weighted average shares outstanding for 2012.
In light of the uncertainty in North American sales trends our guidance assumes that sales for the third and fourth quarters will each be approximately equal to the second quarter North American sales adjusted for slight seasonality.
We do not believe that our North American initiatives will have a significant impact until sometime in the fourth quarter and their full impact will not be felt until early 2013.
Our international business continues to perform quite well and we continue to expect double-digit growth for the balance of the year.
And it is important to note that our guidance is based on recent trends which can be volatile from week to week.
Also in considering our guidance it's possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of new initiatives macro economic conditions in competitive activities or the consequence of other risk factors we have identified in our press release and SEC filings.
The company currently projects gross margins for the full year to decline approximately 100 basis points year-over-year.
However in the third quarter as compared to the second quarter we're expecting gross margin to be relatively unchanged.
The company currently projects operating margin for the full year to decline approximately 450 basis points year-over-year.
However we expect improvement as the year progresses.
In the second quarter operating margin was 14.4%.
We expect improvement in the third quarter and ultimately get back to our first quarter 2012 operating margin level by the fourth quarter of this year.
In the third quarter as compared to the second quarter we are expecting operating margins to expand approximately 400 basis points due to realigning our cost structure.
As Mark noted our financial outlook includes an estimate for the cost impact of all of the new initiatives.
We currently anticipate interest expense for the full year to be approximately $17 million.
We anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $50 million which includes the cost of our new office in Lexington.
We continue to anticipate the full-year tax rate to be approximately 32.7%.
Given the reduction in our share count during the second quarter we're now expecting an average of 63 million shares for the full-year with a current share count of 61 million.
This share count does not assume any benefit from a potential further reduction in shares outstanding related to the company's repurchase program.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which were outside the company’s control.
With that operator please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
This is actually Chad pitch-hitting for Budd.
Couple of questions.
Dale in your commentary regarding the forward guidance can I just clarify did you say 3Q gross margin would be relatively unchanged versus the prior quarter or was it the prior year? The prior quarter so second quarter we're at 50.7%.
And we expect third quarter to be about the same.
Okay.
And I guess maybe help me think through some of the puts and takes there because we know that 2Q was impacted by the Simplicity floor samples I would expect maybe commodities starting to head the right way.
I guess what are some of the offsets? Well as we think about 2Q to 3Q obviously we got a lot of Simplicity floor models as Mark mentioned there'll be some new products introduced at Vegas next week so we'll see a few of those.
The bulk of those floor models probably would go out in the 4Q but there will be some floor models likely less than what we had in the second quarter with Simplicity.
Commodities have -- oil has dropped our chemical prices have not changed dramatically but at least the pressure that we were expecting earlier has eased.
We have also the new programs that are going into place that are going to have some cost to the business.
So there's a variety of puts and takes.
We'll continue to get productivity.
We still have a very strong productivity program that we're driving.
But we see a lot of puts and takes but that's our best estimate at this time.
And I guess Mark on the last call you made a comment referred to sort of the Cloud Supreme promotion as maybe not quite optimal.
I would -- now that the promotion has wrapped up and you've had some time to evaluate it could you share with us maybe a little bit about what you learned from that? And maybe give us a sense of what we can expect from TEMPUR in the future with regard to the magnitude and cadence of price promotion? I mean I think that we learn from everything we learn from every promotion that we do.
And you know as well enough to know that we try to measure and evaluate everything we do and this promotion is no different.
I think if we look at -- sort of back on it we had wanted to announce it very close its period of introduction so that it couldn't be duplicated in the marketplace which worked on one front but on the other hand we realize made it difficult for retailers to implement it as effectively as we would have liked them to have done.
On the other hand the promotion did have some positive effects.
We believe in net-net it did lift our business and so we've learned from it.
We will -- whether we'll ever repeat that exact promotion I don't know but that we will continue to do promotions in this promotional environment of course we will.
We learned from it.
Some things worked better than others.
We learned from it.
Okay.
And then Dale you talked about ad spend in the quarter.
Can you give us a sense of what you're expecting or what you're assuming in your guidance for the full year? We'll see ad spending coming down as a percent of revenue in the back half of the year.
The 14% was well above obviously what we had intended to spend at the start of the year but as you get into a quarter and mid way through the quarter plans change it's hard to adjust advertising effectively.
But we will dial advertising back some to a more historic level than what we have intended to run which is in the little bit lower than that 14% kind of in the low teens as the year goes on.
We will continue to advertise strong in the third quarter little bit lower run rate but still as -- Labor Day is an important time.
So we will still be doing a lot of advertising and a little bit less in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from John Baugh from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all Dale you made a comment about a 400 basis point increase in some line item but I didn't understand which one it was due to realigning costs? Yes the 400 basis point increase in operating margin.
So from to 2Q to 3Q.
So we're at 14.4% in 2Q.
We expect 3Q to be about 400 basis points better.
Obviously I also said gross margin rate would be about the same.
So what you'll see is improving cost around advertising other marketing G&amp;A.
So in the operating expenses we'll see some improvement there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
And then any color on Simplicity? Looking back on the launch now and where it's placed rate of sale any color around the product? Yes it's -- it is placed very broadly.
It's essentially rolled out.
And as we anticipated we have gained significant response from it.
And as I said on the last call our rate of sales of it are not as high as we would have liked but they're within the band of what we had expected albeit at the low end as a proportion of our total sales.
But all that said it hasn't been a blockbuster that we said that it might have been and -- but we're very committed to Simplicity.
We believe it's an important product and it's something that's -- it's an area that we will continue to focus on.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And on the international business can you comment on how Europe performed in the context of everywhere else I guess? Well the international business is up quite well as Dale said.
And it is across the board but particularly very much so in Europe which as you know is our most important or our biggest single block overseas.
And what is very good to see is that the reasons that we're up are those strategic things that we initiated a year ago essentially where we started to rollout the broader collection of product led by the Cloud but also invested in advertising in the major countries in Europe.
And both those things are really paying dividends.
So it's quite exciting to see what's happening in Europe from our business point of view because it's paying off according to what we had anticipated.
Now we're seeing obviously pockets at some countries which are being affected by the general malaise in Europe and that is having an impact on our business.
But overall not enough to bring down our overall performance.
That said and as Dale made a point in his comments obviously we're watching the European macro environment carefully.
We have assumed that there is no -- in our assumptions there is no assumption of a fundamental change in the European macro environment.
We assume that our trends continue as they are and that the macro environment continues essentially as it is now.
I would just add there John the European macro environment has not been good for some time.
And yes we've had pockets of strength and pockets of difficulty in various markets around Europe that hasn't fundamentally changed at this time.
The European business is doing extremely well broadly.
But there are some areas that have been weak and have been weak for several years.
So unless there is a significant change in the overall trends in Europe we feel comfortable there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my last question would be back to the U.S.
whether all of the competitive environment we've seen has there been any change in cadence from any source in the last couple of months or is most of the damage that's been inflicted on your Q2 results things that happened earlier in the year? The way that we -- one of the reasons that we're sticking with this style of guidance just the point guidance is because -- and the way that we are doing the projections using a relatively formulaic approach is because there is still a degree of uncertainty of lack of visibility in the environment.
Now having -- so that's the first thing that we've -- it's not perfectly clear.
Our assumption is that the impact of our -- of the increased competitive environment is going to continue to affect us and impact us and probably grow as some of the rollouts continue.
Having said -- and that we implicitly assume that the initiatives that we're taking are going to counteract that.
So we don't -- what we're assuming is that the sales rate that we saw in the second quarter is going to continue in the third and fourth adjusted for seasonality which implicitly says that there will be continued and increased impact of the competitive environment offset by the initiatives that we're taking.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wondering about your prepared comments where you approach your comprehensive review of the wholesale and retail prices is that the -- the results of that review will we hear about that next week? Will be rolled out over time? How will that look? You'll hear about some of it next week.
It is what it is.
It is what I said which is it is a review of every aspect of our pricing strategy.
But some of it you will see some of it is going to be something that will be between us and customers but it's -- some of it you'll see some of it you won't.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the promotion on the Cloud Supreme will we see more individual mattress or individual product groupings promotion for a limited period of time is that what we're going to look at in the future? Or can you give us any color on that? I can't because for competitive reasons obviously part of our challenge is obviously we don't want to talk about promotions too far in advance.
But as I said we will -- what we’re going to look at is evaluating promotions effectiveness and as I said we learn from every one we do and we will continue to innovate in that front.
We will do one of the things about like any good promotion is it needs to be newsworthy to the consumer and to the retailer and we will continue to ensure that we will do that optimize that.
Some will be -- so I can't really give you any characterization beyond that right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Final question you would -- refer to you or Dale I can't remember had referred in the prepared comments about I guess sacrificing margins in the near term to get the growth back going in the company.
Would that imply the promotions would be for a short period of time and then go away? Or is this something that's going to be kind of a way of life for Tempur-Pedic moving forward? Well first of all we are saying and we are implying by the fact that the margins for the full year are going to be lower than they are for the last year we are deliberately and for the second half we're deliberately making a policy that we're going to strive to get growth and that is going to implicitly require some investment.
And furthermore and I would reiterate this before I come to the promotion point specifically that we have been very specific also that we are going to evaluate these initiatives as they go and if they're working splendid and if they're not we'll change it.
We're going -- we're very committed to this.
But now when you talk about promotions remember a we have been promoting for a long time.
We've done different types of promotions for years now.
And this is a very promotional industry.
And it is something that drives what people call consumer activation consumers move on the belief that they have a promotion to act upon in a short period of time.
So we anticipate that we will continue to do that.
Exactly the design of those promotions how we implement them how we implement them to customers we're going to continue to evolve and innovate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my final kind of question on inventory Dale will we have to ramp back production and inventory with substantially more than sales in the quarter? We have rolled back production and we started rolling back production in June.
We had reduced some hours in the plants we had unfortunately laid some people off in the plants.
We will get our inventory back in the right levels with a bunch of new products coming here in the third quarter.
It may not be completely corrected here in the third quarter as we're adding new products to the mix but by the end of the year we expect for inventories to be back into a reasonable level for our projected revenue.
Our next question comes from Jessica Schoen from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned the Simplicity in the promotion impact of your initiatives that you set forth in the first quarter.
I was wondering if you could talk about your integrated ad program with the dealers and the nationwide advertising [indiscernible] and some of the impact or lessons learned and takeaways you've seen from those? The integrated advertising is part of the overall thing the overall pricing and promotion programs that I as I said we are reviewing.
So that is in the bucket of things that we're reviewing.
And we'll talk more about it in Vegas but there will be some changes made to that.
We've learned of how to -- how to make that -- how we can make that even more effective.
I don't want to talk about the specifics on the call right now.
In terms of the heavy up of advertising clearly it has the effect of -- we continue to see improvements and awareness and preference for TEMPUR and we've just conducted independent research which has just reconfirmed that for us.
So we know that that works.
What we're very keen to make sure that happens also though is that we -- once the consumer goes to the store that they have a good experience and end up having and wanting to buy TEMPUR and end up buying one.
So we making sure that we balance both sides of our investment both the getting the people to come to the store and making sure that they buy when they’re in the store.
But as Dale said and as I said in my comments advertising is a crucial part of our brand differentiation and we will continue to invest there.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the International the context of the kind of underlying macro environments is very helpful.
I was wondering if there is any other observations as far as how the overall mattress market industries are trending in some of those companies like -- some of those countries such as the popularity of Specialty and other sort of industry dynamics? Yes well that varies by market Jessica.
That's one of the great things about International is every market is different the competitors are different in every market.
In terms of specialty in some markets there's no such thing as spring.
Other markets are similar to the U.S.
5 years ago still have -- still primarily spring other markets are in varying stages in between.
So it's a very mixed bag.
Every market is different even within Europe.
Two countries side-by-side will have a very different mix of products and technologies and competitors from just crossing a little border.
The international business overall you have -- the first part of your question was about Europe how the overall mattress market is doing.
By and large the mattress market in Europe has been flat to negative for several years and we don't see that changing dramatically one direction or another.
Obviously we're not seeing a surge of growth right now in the overall market in Europe.
But we haven't seen a significant deterioration either.
Now part of that is we're a smaller player.
We're less in Europe.
We're less penetrated in Europe than we are here.
So we're able to gain share there a little bit easier because we're not as penetrated.
But we are gaining a lot of share in Europe in every market that we play in and having our strategy that we embarked on internationally and broadly in Europe specifically in the last couple of years is paying a lot of dividends right now.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
I guess I realize there's a limit to what you want to talk about in terms of specifics given that most of your competitors are probably on this call but is there anything you can say at a higher level about your commitment to developing RSA advocacy for the brand and maybe just start with that if anything at all please? Well that is a -- that is clearly -- you're right on both counts.
There's a limit to what we'll say and RSA advocacy is a very important thing you're right.
I mean I think that -- and we know that and that's always been the case and we have systematically been -- we talked about it earlier in the year about wanting to make sure that we had a profitability of something we're focused on as we've been improving our cost structure.
We've been -- we said more than once that it's up to us to make sure that retailers benefit from the improvements that we can make.
And then obviously retailers have enormous influence on the advocacy of their RSAs by the way that they structure their commission program as well as other things.
So that is a very important part of it but also the support that we provide to the RSAs in terms of training and frequency of calls are things that we're also investing in.
But -- and there's no doubt that in our industry there are 2 sides to this and we have the advantage of having the strength with the direct to the consumer and we want to make sure that we also maintain the strength that we have with advocacy of the RSA.
Since your early June call have you seen any letup in the levels of stiffing in the kind of incentives that some of your competitors to these RSAs? Well it's I mean no is the answer.
But I mean – but on the other hand it's not a very precise science.
A lot of our customers don't allow stiffing so it is frequently used in some customers in some areas and not in others and it is always -- it is an endemic thing in the industry and I haven't seen I mean I don't have any information that tells me significantly better or worse.
Okay and then finally just -- with the pullback in advertising how do you think about slot productivity in the second half? I wondered if you could just talk about the puts and takes there as you think about second half versus first half.
Slot productivity is obviously very important and that is what we're focused on and it's the balancing of all the aspects of the marketing mix that is important and advertising without a doubt is a very important -- and as we’ve said repeatedly even though we'll be pulling back in some of the percentages we'll still be spending at a very heavy level -- at a very significant level because it's the backbone of our brand.
And every retailer will tell you that they love having advertising because it really brings people into the store.
But at the same time there are the other parts of the marketing mix including in-store marketing and including new product introductions and so forth and promotions and the balancing of all those different things is what we always do and in particular now as we go forward with these new initiatives are very focused in doing.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Brad Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just follow up on one of your comments Mark.
You mentioned really the key is innovation and as we've all alluded to in our questions I know you can't really tell us exactly what you're going to do.
But can you help us just think a little bit more about how this company is going to operate over the foreseeable future.
I mean should we be expecting multiple bed launches per year versus what historically had been more like once a year or once every other year.
How should we think about how you put that innovation into practice? Well obviously I don't mean to sound silly but I am loathe to say things too specific because of the exact reasons that you said.
But the way we think about it is this is that since the day that TEMPUR was introduced we have been focused on improving the way that people sleep.
That our long claim to fame is people who sleep on TEMPUR sleep better that most who don't and we have really made this say a backbone and then when for example when we introduced the Cloud and it gave such a wide range of people a product that allowed them to sleep better to be more -- better supported and so forth in a bed that was more competitive that appealed to their more so type of comfort layer they like.
And I think that the way we characterize what constitutes innovation is those improvements to or those improvements to or additions to our product line improvements or additions to our product line that will allow a consumer to perceive an improvement over what they could buy in the market place before what was available for them from a sleep surface.
And so as we think about innovation what we think about is the constant search for ways to improve the way and the quality of how people sleep and how their beds -- how they like their beds.
And so what you -- what I hope you'll -- what I believe you'll see from us what I know you'll see from us is innovation but innovation that is -- that has value to a specific set of consumers that does what it says it's going to do.
Research Division</strong> Great and then to follow up on that you in your prepared remarks Mark also talked about the claim of some of the gel manufacturers that their bed sleeps cooler and I believe your website now has a study that says that the Tempur-Pedic bed sleeps cooler than a gel bed.
Is this -- are you in a position where you're therefore limited to not enter that arena of a bed that is -- that makes a claim that it will sleep cooler? Or is there an opportunity perhaps to address that market? The little things that we have communicated on the website we communicated on TV and what we've communicated with all pretty much every RSA in the country is that the research that has been done by an independent party in Germany very properly done shows that not only do these gel beds not sleep cooler they -- that our beds actually sleep cooler than theirs.
So I think it’s a very important thing and we will continue to make sure that we communicate that.
From time to time people have asked us whether we'll make a gel bed and we wouldn't because if it doesn't work why would we? So but on the other hand nothing precludes us from doing anything.
But right now our entire key focus is on communicating the fact that on this very important thing which is which seems to be in the ISPA even though is not a real issue one of the I think you know this is the heat complaints of sleeping hot is such a tiny tiny percentage of people who actually own TEMPUR as to be almost negligible.
But it is something that's in the ISPA and has been created to some extent by this -- by the focus perhaps of some of our competitors.
It's then important that we just put the record straight on that.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions.
I guess first in terms of new products you're going to launch or at least introduce next week were those accelerated? Or was it your plan to always introduce them at Vegas in August? We've said before that we had products in the pipeline and obviously we did.
And we don't decide until later in the year whether and when to launch products.
And we did -- these products were ready to launch but we decided to launch them now because the environment – because quite frankly our business hasn't done well in the second quarter.
We wanted to start to turn the tide back to growth again.
Research Division</strong> Okay so the original plan was probably for a January introduction? I'm not getting into specifics but yes there was modification to the plan and what's launched when.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then in terms of the advertising just want to make sure that I got this correct I think earlier Dale you mentioned that you expect the advertising as part of the sales to come down a little bit from 2Q in the second half towards the low teens.
And I think in the first half you did about 13% of sales in terms of advertising and it sounds like that you're looking for another 13% in the second half.
Is that correct? No I didn't say that.
In the first quarter we did about 12% and the second quarter was 14%.
I said in the back half that it'll drop a little bit as the year goes on it'd be more in the low teens.
Research Division</strong> Right which is 13% Or lower.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly in terms of Simplicity you mentioned earlier that it was doing well but it wasn't a blockbuster.
Why do you think it wasn't a blockbuster? Because at the time that we launched the product a lot of other products were launched at the same price points from a lot of different people.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it wasn't anything that was product-specific it was simply new entrants in the marketplace? I think that was the primary cause.
I mean obviously every product can be -- one can always sing and we always do.
What are constantly looking at ways to evolve our products and we've done it with [indiscernible].
There are things that we can learn that maybe could've been done differently but the fact is the product was tested extremely well.
It is a very good product.
The consumers who have it love it.
The satisfaction rate extremely high return rates are very low it's a good product.
It's just that it arrived in the middle of a very large launch of products at the same sort of price point.
Our next question comes from Jon Andersen from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked at this point but a couple here.
First Mark when you talk about and understandably talk about the investments that you plan to make to continue to drive growth are these investments that the consumer will see in terms of pricing are they incentives between you and the retailer? I guess what I'm trying to get a sense for as you've kind of done a postmortem on some of the challenges more recently is your sense this is a price sensitivity issue among consumers or more of a retailer advocacy issue? There are parts of -- everything you said is a part of the story and it is not either one or the other or -- it's a bit of both is part of the answer.
And as I said you'll see some of it when you're in Vegas next week.
And some of it won't be so apparent.
But I can't go into specifics but I will say it's a bit of everything.
Research Division</strong> Is it -- would it be fair to say and I know again you're not going to talk that much about the innovation at this point but given I guess the move somewhat downstream with Simplicity it's coming I would say below the midpoint at least of your expectations that the innovation you're talking about going forward would be more focused on what I would characterize as enhancement benefits versus lower price? Yes although I would say that we're always -- yes is the short answer and the long answer is that we're always striving with all our products that either key importance of Simplicity is we have people who otherwise would've bought a $800 bed to trade up by providing them with enough value and the rationale to trade up if they would.
So we always have that in mind.
But yes but the implicit in your question is yes we're looking for increased value in terms of what the bed -- how the bed performs for the consumer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple more quick ones.
On Simplicity how many slots did Simplicity I guess gain on average? And do you expect Simplicity to hold slots here particularly in the face of the rollout of some new products in the second half? With Simplicity the best data we have is always a bit suspect because you never -- but it’s the best data we have.
And it's good data.
It says that on average of the stores -- of the retailers' that carry Simplicity they carry approximately a little bit more than 2 slots each.
So a we did gain and net-net our gains for the whole retailers was a little bit more than one -- so we -- and that's counting ones that didn't take on Simplicity.
So net-net it has been quite successful from that front.
As we go forward with the new products you'll see also in Vegas that there's new products and there’s other changes.
We are anticipating we're expecting we’re hoping to get increased distribution and increased slots as we go forward in the second half of the year.
But we're also very focused on slot productivity so we'll work with every retailer to make sure that they're maximizing the slot productivity.
So that could mean some changes.
But in general we're looking for gains.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one is just kind of housekeeping.
Dale I think you mentioned and I want to make sure I heard you right in the second quarter there were 2 one timers that added up to about $4 million or $0.06 per share is that right? Yes $4 million.
That was the $2.5 million related to an earn-out that is not going to happen.
And about $1.5 million related to the long-term incentive plan accrual rate.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the topic of sleeping cool your competitors are advertising in the stores that they sleep cooler than you.
While you're educating on your website that's a good thing but I'm wondering does it not make more sense to make an even cooler bed.
Is that something that you guys can do? And does that -- is that something that you guys think is worth focusing on from a product standpoint? Josh we're not going to talk about new products until we launch them.
So honestly I'm not speculating on that or any other type of new product but for the obvious competitive reasons that you’re very – you’re obviously very close to.
Research Division</strong> On your initiatives can you talk about a couple of things: Number one how much should we see in cost out as a result of those and I know you said your guidance includes them but if it's not touching on any competitive issues how much you guys are actually spending on it? And I was a little surprised I was expecting some of your initiatives to be focused on your cost to manufacturing and I was wondering if you could talk about what you guys are doing on your cost of manufacturing and whether or not it's cheaper to buy foam than it is for you to manufacture it.
Josh this is Dale.
Number one on the cost impact of the initiatives it's included in the guidance.
We're not going to break out how much we put in there related to the enhanced initiatives new products et cetera.
In terms of cost to manufacturing that's a continuous program.
That's what we've been working on for 4 years now is continually improving our cost of not only manufacturing but sourcing and distributing our products that's the productivity program.
So we continue to get significant benefit.
We believe that we have outstanding cost structure from our overall manufacturing capability standpoint.
You can't buy our material from somebody else.
And somebody else wouldn't be able to make our material.
So by being vertically integrated we're able to develop and produce the highest quality material in the world and we do so very efficiently.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
Your margins by region both on the gross and the -- on the operating side? You'll see it in the Q in about a week.
Research Division</strong> Okay the run rate on the LTIC in 1Q versus what you guys are expecting for the rest of the year? I'm not sure what you're talking about Josh.
Research Division</strong> Your long term incentive comp plan you said that you had a bit of a reversal there in the second quarter and so from a modeling perspective I'm trying to understand what it was in 1Q.
I know that 2Q will look a little funky because of the reversal but ultimately trying to see what you guys will -- what will the impact be for long term? [indiscernible] Josh is what's G&amp;A going to look like? So on the second quarter we had essentially $32 million of G&amp;A but we had as I mentioned 2 one-offs that impacted that by about $4 million.
The G&amp;A run rate in the balance of the year will be very similar to what it was in the second quarter without the one-offs.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question was just on your debt balance.
I saw it went up from $565 million to closer to $681 million.
Obviously I'm assuming that you guys tapped your revolver for your share repurchases.
I'm wondering should we think about the cadence or share repurchases from here as coming out of cash coming out of new cash flow? Or are you guys willing to put a little bit more debt on the balance sheet? Well we -- our revolver facility is a $770 million facility.
But as I said earlier we're -- we have a debt to EBITDA target range which is we've talked about for quite some time 1.5x to 2x.
We reevaluate that on a regular basis.
We did look at that again.
We continue to feel very comfortable with that range.
Part of the reason for that range is to allow the -- for potential disruptions to the business and still be very comfortable.
And so sitting here today we're comfortable with that range.
We're at the higher end of that range right now.
We will continue periodically to evaluate that range and assess if we want to or need to change it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and the cadence of buybacks or let me just ask it this way.
The amount of cash that you guys want to have on the balance sheet what is that level? We don't have a target to in terms of cash on the balance sheet.
I think the thing that you need to understand is most of the cash not all but most of the cash on the balance sheet is in our International operations.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Peter Keith from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify a comment that was made earlier.
It sounds like next week you're going to talk at the conference about how you've reviewed your pricing strategy.
Does that involve both a combination of cutting the retail price off your consumers and cutting the price to retailers to offer a better margin is it going to be a combination of those 2? As I said everything has been considered and so have the EPOs so as we evaluated we've looked at every part of it.
And at next week's conference you'll -- some of it will become apparent but not all.
So I can't really go into any more detail other than to say all elements of what you said had been considered and evaluated.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly there's been some chatter out there in the channel that the Cloud Supreme promo may have cannibalized the upper end of your product range.
Have you noticed any deterioration in Rhapsody or any of your other more higher priced beds as the quarter progressed? We heard the similar chatter.
And it could be different from customer to customer but as we looked at our aggregate data and we look at it by the various price slices 1 to 2 2 to 3 and 3 to 4 3 and above.
And we saw that obviously as the promotion was running that the Cloud Supreme -- well first thing is that the promotion was running it seems to have lift our overall trend to some extent although it's hard to discern whether it was a difficult trend like we’ve got but it seems to be overall positive but secondly that the decline in other products was sort of essentially similar and that the above 3 000 for the Rhapsody type was no more effective than any other.
And our next question comes from Eric Hollowaty from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dale and Mark I realize we're going to get more information on the new products that you'll be launching next week but in the meantime in light of the fact that your most significant recent product launch in the form of Simplicity hasn't or I should say has performed at the lower end of your expectations what additional comfort if any can you give investors in the meantime that the new products that you're introducing to reinvigorate sales growth will be successful in getting the top line back on track? Well one can never be 100% sure of anything that's why -- obviously.
But what I -- a couple of things though as I think that if you look at our track record over the years we've had quite a few that have worked.
And I -- as you've said Simplicity is not a blockbuster but Simplicity is at the lower end of our -- lower end of the range of our expectation.
Though it has done good for us.
But I would say also that we continue to invest time and money and energy into research of every product that we do with consumers and I think one of the really fond conclusions one might draw is that if the research that was done on Simplicity pointed to it being a much bigger hit than it turned out to be then therefore research is wrong.
That's a very bad conclusion and not one that we've come to -- we're very -- we recognize that this is what is always we are always trying to improve the effectiveness and the quality of our research but the concept of making products that consumers prefer and knowing that they do prefer them because you tested it with them is the backbone of our business model and it will continue to be so.
So this is what has driven us on our -- every major product we've introduced and it pays dividends.
So I -- we can't claim to be -- to bat 1000% but we are believers in the fact that what will eventually drive growth is that -- what always drives growth in the end is providing consumers something that they value and that they can't get elsewhere.
Our next question comes from Robert Strauss from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions on -- in the first I do want to ask about the Simplicity line and perhaps I missed it on the call but what have you learned from the sales that you have achieved.
I mean you have said that Simplicity ended up at the lower end of your original expectations.
But it sounds like it still did okay not blockbuster but still did okay.
What have you learned from your retailers for the customers who are currently buying that product? We've learned that for some of our customers it's been really quite successful it really -- it has been really quite a hit for customers.
And not insignificant ones although from specifics but for some it has been quite good.
And they're finding that it does just what we said which is lifting up people from what -- who otherwise would’ve spent $800 to $1 000 on a mattress to go up to $2000 -- to go up to $1 500.
Research Division</strong> Is your sense that the majority of those sales to date is in fact moving that customer base who would look at an $800 mattress up to that level rather than cannibalize any of your other products? Is that your experience so far? Yes.
Again data is never perfect on this but we have obviously planned we had obviously planned a degree of cannibalization from Simplicity.
And it's hard to detect given that the trend levels that we have across the board are difficult.
But our best estimate standing here today is that the cannibalization of Simplicity if anything has been less than we anticipated.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then could you just remind me where you are in the rollout of that product line? We're essentially finished.
I mean there's still some more to go but to all intents and for our planning purposes we're essentially rolled out.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to turn to the international opportunity that you have.
First I'd like to hear some additional comments regarding the trends in Asia and then secondly regarding Europe.
I'd like to get a better understanding.
Overall your business in Europe sounds like it's doing quite well compared to what the macro environment is.
In those areas of softness in Europe is that following suit with the macro trends there that is as we would all expect Greece Italy Spain to be weak but the northern countries to be doing better? I'm just curious about that.
On Asia Asia is a very broad term for obviously and we have businesses in several parts of Asia but the big ones in Japan Australia and the growing business in China and a small but growing business in China.
Japan and Australia are very different but both doing quite well.
And China remains small we have several other smaller countries.
But overall our Asian business is doing quite well.
From an European point of view you're right that the places that we're seeing the weakness are the -- I'm not going to give you specifics but are the countries that you would expect and as Dale said a little earlier this is not something that just happened in the last few months this has been going on for some time.
Those weaker countries have been weak for some time.
And where we're seeing the greater strength is again in the ones that you would expect those central developed European countries which have -- they're the largest countries which we've been in for the longest time.
Research Division</strong> Great and just a final question.
In my travels I've come across what I think is a new initiative by you and that is Tempur-Pedic Corporate Retail Stores.
I've identified 2 so far and I was wondering if you were willing to make any comments about that strategy? Tell me where the other one is I'd love to know.
But yes as far as I know there's only one and that's just opened up in Boston which is a flagship store.
And what these are is they're brand building so they're part of our advertising.
The idea is that we will open stores in a small number of select areas where we can really give consumers who tend to gather in great -- in places where there are a lot of people like malls to get people to come and try the TEMPUR the TEMPUR experience and the idea is to build awareness of the brand and give people opportunity to try it and expectation is that will lift sales in the area that surrounds it.
In fact we've done that in several countries around the world and we have found that it has worked quite well.
Research Division</strong> How many of those stores do you plan and or are you planning? And then secondly is the mall strategy here specifically because maybe a resurge or your own internal thought process is that you perhaps are missing some of your customer opportunity with that mall traffic? Really a marketing thing.
It really is.
One of the things that we've known for example when some of our customers have stands in county fairs or the big fairs where you get a lot of people.
People like to come and try TEMPUR.
And so one of the things that we as I said the marketing thing it's part of building our brand.
We can -- the stores can be quite an experience they can be fun they can be something that people enjoy and do almost as a recreation to come and try out the different types of TEMPUR beds.
And what we think it'll do is a bit like the Nike store or Apple store is build awareness of the brand over and above just being a marketing I mean a selling tool.
It's a very small experiment it's as a said we do it in different countries around the world I mean all countries it's a relatively small thing but it all countries it does seem to work.
This does conclude our question-and-answer session portion for today.
I would like to hand the conference back over for any closing remarks.
Well thank you.
We look forward to talking to everybody again in October when we host our third quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
And welcome to your Tempur-Pedic Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference may be recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mark Rupe.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thanks Huey.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales earnings or the proposed transaction with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before we get into the quarter I want to make just a few comments about our proposed transaction with Sealy.
We are very excited about the potential for the combined companies.
Together TEMPUR and Sealy will have a portfolio of highly complementary brands products technologies and geographic footprints that will provide a robust platform for growth.
We have initiated a process and are working with Larry Rogers and the Sealy team to prepare for a very successful integration once the required regulatory approval is received.
I have been very impressed with the Sealy individuals I have met in the short time since our announcement.
Now I'm sure that you understand our constraints in discussing details regarding this transaction so we'll focus tonight's call on our third quarter performance and the updated financial outlook for TEMPUR.
As I have said before the competitive environment we are currently facing is very different than anything we previously experienced.
I said that our competitive response would require a broad series of new initiatives and that these would be implemented over a period of time.
And their full impact would not be expected to be seen until early 2013.
And our third quarter performance is consistent with this.
To summarize our third quarter sales overall declined 9% and were down 7% on a constant currency basis.
North American sales declined 14% but were in line with our projection of slight sequential growth relative to the second quarter due to seasonality.
International sales increased 3% and on a constant-currency basis increased 11%.
While our International business once again delivered a solid quarter in what many would consider to be a difficult economic environment our International sales were below our expectations.
We recorded a $0.03 loss per share on a GAAP basis.
The loss reflects the provision for taxes that we recorded to reflect the anticipated repatriation of foreign earnings together with transaction costs related to the proposed Sealy acquisition.
Excluding these items adjusted earnings per share were $0.70 in the third quarter down 22%.
I'll provide an update on the progress of our new initiatives and then I'll turn the call over to Dale for details of our third quarter results and the updated financial outlook.
As we indicated on our July 24 second quarter call and disclosed in an 8-K filing with the SEC on July 30 we launched a broad series of new initiatives at the Las Vegas Industry show.
They included 6 new product introductions: 5 new mattresses and a new adjustable foundation and the discontinuation and closeout of 2 U.S.
mattress models; also wholesale mattress price reductions on certain U.S.
models to improve the margins of our U.S.
retail customers; manufacturer suggested retail price reductions on 2 U.S.
mattress models and warranty extension of all of our U.S.
mattress models to 25 years to improve the competitiveness of our products in the marketplace; and various other initiatives including customer program and integrated advertising adjustments to realign dealer incentives given our reduced financial year '12 outlook.
These actions were well received by our retail customers and believed by many to be the appropriate response.
While some of these initiatives were implemented during August many more have just recently been launched.
Only in September do we begin shipping all of our new mattress models.
Retailer enthusiasm for these new products has been high and our early read is that it appears we've gained some overall slots at our key retailers.
It's still very early.
The rollout of these products is less than 50% complete but we are witnessing some promising initial signs.
Demand for some of our new products has been greater than we expected.
And as pleased as we are by this initial reception we are equally disappointed that as a result many of our retail customers are facing order backlogs or allocations due to our supply constraints.
And we have been moving as fast as we can to very quickly ramp up our supply lines to address this demand and are now beginning to catch up on the backlog.
And we anticipate that supply will be normalized within the next few weeks.
We launched the new TEMPUR-Weightless collection featuring the TEMPUR-Weightless Select and Supreme mattresses that have a unique to-the-market feel; the support of a TEMPUR combined with the easy mobility of a traditional mattress.
We also launched the Cloud Supreme Breeze and Rhapsody Breeze mattresses which optimize the sleep climate to produce an extra cool feel for people who feel that they sleep warm.
While our existing beds are already proven to be cooler than the leading gel foam beds in independent tests these new mattresses take our cool comfort advantage to the next level featuring phase-change material and proprietary TEMPUR climate material.
We also introduced the TEMPUR-Cloud Select mattress at $1 999 which offers consumers a better value proposition than the Cloud mattress it replaced.
It is both taller and has an improved cover.
These new mattresses are not only differentiated from competing products on the floor they're also proprietary and further expand our growing and already extensive portfolio of innovations.
We will not stop here though.
Our pipeline of innovative new products remains very robust.
We have several compelling strategic initiatives and product introductions planned for the January and August 2013 Las Vegas industry shows that we believe have the potential to contribute significantly to our overall business in the future.
It's important to note that these new initiatives have come at a price and are more costly than we had initially estimated.
As we communicated in July our objective is to return to growth even if that requires some reduction in our overall margins in the short-term and our margin performance in the third quarter reflects this.
While our immediate focus remains on returning to growth we have already identified opportunities to improve margins and we'll work on achieving these in the fourth quarter and into 2013.
Switching to our International business.
Growth trends softened during the third quarter which we attribute to a persistent and weakening macroeconomic environment in Europe.
That said we continue to perform very well in certain of our key European markets.
And our Asia Pacific business was up strongly during the period reflecting solid performance in markets like Japan and Korea.
Still visibility internationally is limited and the environment is more uncertain today than it was just a few months ago.
While we had been expecting double-digit growth to continue for the remainder of the year given the uncertain economic backdrop we are no longer projecting this.
In closing I'd like to reflect on where we are today and where we're headed.
Tempur-Pedic was the key driver of change within the industry over the past decade.
And we've always anticipated that as we grew the specialty category it would get more competitive and that's what has happened.
The landscape has changed and the new playing field is in the process of being established.
It's a different competitive environment than the 1 we were in historically.
However we are not any less committed or less confident in our ability to resume growth and outgrow the overall industry once this new playing field is established.
We have significant advantages from the strength of our brand our integrated supply chain and our expertise in consumer-focused innovation.
Nonetheless TEMPUR is currently competing in a single area of the market against competitors who have the benefits of scale from competing in all segments of the market.
The proposed combination with Sealy will address this issue allowing the combined company to compete broadly across the whole market.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the financials and our 2012 guidance.
Let's begin with an overview.
In total third quarter net sales were $348 million a decrease of 9% over the same period last year.
On a constant-currency basis net sales decreased to 7%.
North American net sales were down 14% and international net sales increased 3%.
On a constant-currency basis international net sales increased 11%.
Now by channel.
The North American retail net sales were $221 million a decrease of 14%.
Our North American direct channel decreased by 15% to $17 million.
Internationally retail sales were flat at $85 million and up 7% on a constant-currency basis.
By product overall mattress sales were down 11% on a unit decline of 2%.
North American mattress sales decreased 15% on an 8% decrease in units.
In the International segment mattress sales increased 1%; on a constant-currency basis were up 10%.
Units increased 10% also.
Total pillow net sales increased by 11% on a 10% increase in units.
North American pillow sales increased 5% on a unit increase of 9%.
International pillow sales were up 16% on a 12% increase in units.
On a constant-currency basis international pillow sales increased 23%.
Sales of our other products which include items that are normally sold along with the mattress were down 13% in total and down 16% in North America and down 3% internationally.
On a constant-currency basis International other sales increased 5%.
Gross margin for the quarter was 49.2% down 310 basis points year-on-year and down 140 basis points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis gross margin declined primarily due to the following: Product mix and increased promotions and discounts.
These were partially offset by positive geographic mix.
On a sequential basis gross margin declined 140 basis points as a result of the product mix and increased promotions and discounts.
These were partially offset by improved efficiencies in manufacturing and fixed cost leverage on higher third quarter sales relative to second quarter sales.
As Mark indicated in the opening remarks our new initiatives have been more costly than we initially estimated.
This factor along with lower-than-expected international sales and overall product mix led to third quarter gross margin coming in below our previous expectations.
From an operating expense perspective we are generally pleased with the progress we made during the quarter.
We realigned the cost to reflect a reduced North American sales projection as we communicated in July.
Advertising spend in the third quarter decreased 3% to $38 million from last year's third quarter and decreased 16% on a sequential basis relative to the second quarter.
As a percentage of sales advertising spend was 11% in the third quarter compared with 10.3% in the third quarter last year and 13.9% in the second quarter of 2012.
Despite the slight reduction in advertising we have continued to see positive results with brand awareness and purchase consideration.
We also lowered G&amp;A expenses during the quarter as reported after adjusting for the Sealy transaction costs incurred and the benefit from the long-term incentive compensation reduction.
During the third quarter the company recorded a benefit of approximately $8 million related to grants from the 2012 and 2011 performance-restricted share units due to the company's reevaluation of the probability of meeting certain required financial metrics.
This benefit was offset by approximately $3.6 million of costs related to the acquisition of Sealy.
We continue to invest heavily in R&amp;D which was up 63% year-over-year.
Our third quarter reported operating income was $63.4 million or 18.2% of sales.
As previously indicated the reported GAAP financial results include both the $3.6 million Sealy transaction costs as well as the benefit of approximately $8 million related to the long-term incentive stock compensation plan.
Interest expense was $4.8 million.
The tax rate however was 103%.
The tax rate reflects the provision for taxes recorded with respect to the anticipated repatriation of foreign earnings which in total was $42 million.
Without this tax impact the normalized tax rate for the quarter would have been 32.5%.
The $40 million tax amount reflects all of our historic foreign earnings and profits of approximately $350 million.
Per accounting guidelines it was appropriate to record and accrue for the expense in the third quarter based on the timing of our decision to acquire Sealy.
The cash tax repatriation payment is also not expected to occur until the quarter following the transaction close.
Third quarter GAAP EPS was negative $0.03 as compared to $0.90 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EPS was $0.70 which as detailed in the press release excludes the tax impact from the repatriation of foreign earnings and the Sealy transaction costs incurred in the third quarter.
Included in the adjusted EPS was an after-tax $0.09 per diluted share benefit from the long-term incentive stock compensation adjustment.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
Our accounts receivable balance was up.
DSOs were up 6 days from last year primarily due to timing.
Inventories were down $4 million year-on-year or 4% principally due to greater emphasis on inventory management due to our reduced sales expectations.
Payables were up 9 days primarily due to the timing as we were ramping production of the new products.
During the quarter we generated $67 million of operating cash flow and capital expenditures were $18 million.
We decreased debt by $32 million to $650 million.
Our cash balance increased $18 million to $152 million primarily driven by international operations.
Funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.98x.
Now I'd like to address our updated financial guidance for 2012.
Today the company lowered its outlook for full year 2012 net sales to be approximately $1.4 billion.
In addition the company lowered its full year 2012 earnings guidance.
The company currently expects 2012 adjusted EPS of approximately $2.55.
The company notes its expectations are based on information available at the time of this release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
The company also noted that the adjusted EPS guidance does not include tax provisions expected to be recorded in the fourth quarter in connection with the decision to repatriate foreign earnings for transaction costs related to the proposed Sealy acquisition due to uncertainty of timing and magnitude of these items.
In addition the company's net sales and adjusted EPS guidance assumes the Sealy transaction is not completed during 2012.
In light of the current market and our limited visibility our updated fiscal year '12 sales guidance assumes that our fourth quarter aggregate sales are a continuation of the third quarter aggregate sales although there may be some variation between the North American and International segments as compared to the third quarter due in part to seasonality.
Given the amount of current uncertainty we feel that this methodology remains the best approach.
Through the first 3 weeks of October we are tracking to these projections.
In considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequence of other risk factors we've identified in our press release and SEC filings.
The company currently projects gross margin for the full year to decline approximately 170 basis points and expects gross margin in the fourth quarter to be similar to the third quarter gross margin rate.
The company currently projects operating margin for the full year to be 18.2% excluding the $3.6 million of transaction costs.
In the fourth quarter of this year we are expecting operating margin to be approximately 16% as we continue to roll out new products and will have a full quarter of the new initiatives.
We currently anticipate interest expense for the full year to be approximately $18 million.
We anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $50 million which includes the cost of our new office in Lexington.
We now anticipate the full year tax rate excluding APB 23 to be approximately 32.5%.
We continue to expect an average of 63 million shares for the full year based on the current share count of 61 million.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to change in conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel Nicolas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If we could start with the gross margins and talk a little bit about some of the puts and takes.
Was there much of a change in production or capacity utilizations? And then maybe comment on raw materials and then comment on how the incentives or wholesale price reductions were impacting the gross margins? Yes.
Obviously when -- in the second quarter when the business slowed down we did curtail production.
Production was curtailed.
If you recall from the second quarter call inventories were high.
So we continued to curtail production partway through the third quarter.
As we got a little bit further into the quarter we started ramping production back up a little bit and ramped it up even more going into the end of the quarter as we start to produce and ship the new products.
So from an overall productivity standpoint capacity utilization dropped a little bit and then returned as the quarter went on.
Not a big factor in fact from an overall productivity standpoint.
We still were able to deliver positive productivity in the factories but not at the rate that we have experienced before or that we would have expected earlier just because of the lower volumes.
Also a lot of our effort was redirected to getting the new products going as opposed to improving the cost position of other products.
From a commodity standpoint John there really wasn't any change.
Commodities were not a factor one way or the other in the quarter.
Commodities have been pretty stable for some time.
As we said earlier if we look at the mix of the business in terms of the gross margin impact part -- about 40% of the impact was related to mix.
About 40% was related to pricing actions.
And then the other 20% was related to the floor models that went out.
We did have more floor models going out than we had originally anticipated of the new products.
And those were as we said earlier partially benefited from the productivity initiatives.
But the other factor that plays in there was the geographic mix was not what we expected.
We did expect International -- while International had a good quarter we did expect International to actually do much better than it did.
We saw the trends in Europe change.
And so that's been reflected not only in third quarter actuals but also in our outlook for the balance of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dale is there -- you mentioned it all the implementation of a lot of these things is still ongoing in the third quarter.
So as it relates to incentives with the dealers is that something that accelerated as you went through the quarter and would therefore have more of a negative impact in the fourth quarter? Or did they work through pretty much in the third quarter? Yes.
John the -- there is going to be a greater effect in the fourth quarter because they were implemented in the third quarter but they weren't all implemented at the beginning.
So I would anticipate a certain -- there will be.
As we've projected out there's going to be a greater impact in the fourth quarter.
It's more of a run rate -- more of a kind of full-quarter effect than it is of a change of the run rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark you'd made the comment about I think sales stabilizing with some of these changes.
Could you quantify that or what does that mean precisely? Well in the U.S.
sales in the third quarter are essentially up a little from the second quarter which is what we had -- what we were projecting to do so we have stabilized the decline and we've got the degree of the little bit of seasonality that we had anticipated.
And as we look forward we said -- the first period of October Dale said has been consistent with the projection which is also a continuation of this sort of steady state.
So that's what we're saying about stabilizing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My last question quickly is on advertising.
As you think about ad spend in '13 is that going to be a source of leverage to earnings? We're not going to talk about the specifics of guidance for next year but -- so I can't get into that level of detail.
But what I will say is that advertising is going to remain to be an important part of our business going forward.
I don't see it being a source of great leverage or a source of great cost.
Dale you had something you want to add? Yes yes.
I just wanted to add a couple of points there on the stabilizing.
Obviously John if you look at just the North American business it shows that it was down more in the third quarter than it was in the second quarter but it's down not as bad as the trends at the end of the second quarter.
And as we're leaving the third quarter the trends are better than what they are reflected for the full quarters.
Our expectation for the rest of the year would be that the North American business' still going to be negative but it's not as negative as it was in the third quarter.
We're seeing improved -- by stabilizing what we mean by that is we're seeing while still negative trends those negative trends improving some.
Our next questioner in queue comes from the line of with Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have few questions.
Just making sure on the adjusted EPS that the only 2 items that are adjusted in there are the tax provision on the repatriated funds and the transaction costs related to the deal so far? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the $8 million of savings that came from the recalibration of the LTIP I take it that that money will actually show up again in the fourth quarter.
And so that benefit will not reoccur.
Is that right? That benefit will not recur correct.
But it's -- we're calling it out because it was important to the quarter.
But it's -- we historically have had to make LTIP adjustments up or down at various times as we've reevaluated our position on those programs.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I hate to beat this horse but I think I'm a little confused on the stabilization issue.
You had sales down domestically down 14% and you said that the trends at the end of the quarter were not as bad as the trends at the beginning of the quarter.
What does your guidance imply for domestic sales year-over-year for the fourth quarter? Guidance would imply domestic sales being down in the neighborhood of 10%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
On the accounting for the tax of the repatriation make sure I understand that.
You basically tax-affect all of the embedded earnings that have not been taxed before to bring back the cash? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how much cash are you planning to bring back from offshore in that number? Well I mean we -- from a book standpoint we recognized a $42 million expense and that's related to $350 million of not previously taxed foreign earnings and profit.
So sitting here today we would expect that we would bring back at least $350 million over the next few years.
However we will be and we are looking at opportunities within the -- because of the acquisition to enhance the efficiency of our international tax structure.
And we believe we might/could do better than that.
But we'll -- as time goes on and we get that firmed up we'll let you know at a future point in time what that could look like.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you could bring back dollar for dollar of the taxes -- of the income so taxed? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that what you're saying? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you put the inventory down and the inventory was down nicely obviously that has some impact on the gross margin.
Can you quantify what that might have had in terms of inefficiencies of drawing down inventory? Is there any way to look at that on an ongoing basis? Well I think the important thing about it is it was early in the quarter.
And by the end of the quarter production was back up at a more efficient level.
It was not a material thing.
It was built into the productivity which was an overall benefit.
But certainly as we were getting to the end of the quarter building the new products starting to get those shipped that caused production to go back up a little bit.
In fact the inventory ended a little bit too low.
As Mark mentioned we've had to allocate some of the new products but we're getting out of that hole here in the next couple of weeks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But that would also imply probably a mixed variance that was not positive too because as you develop new product that takes a lot to learn how to make that product efficiently.
Is that -- would that be a fair assumption? Right.
2 negative mix issues there but you've got a floor models going out.
Obviously the floor models are discounted at 50%.
You also have -- not all new products cause mix problems but new technologies cause mix problems.
And there's a lot of new technologies in these new products and there's a learning curve on those.
They're never really efficient when you first start making them.
So as time goes on and you produce more of them you get more efficient and you find ways to improve the cost of those over time.
So as we go forward into next year and start getting down the learning curve we would expect to see some good productivity on the new products that we've launched here in the last month.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have just 2 quick other questions.
Your DSOs were up I think the 42 days if our calculation is right up 6 days.
You said that was timing.
There's no additional terms being granted to your dealers? No.
No change in terms.
It really was a function of the -- as we got to the end of the year you've got -- or I'm sorry the end of the quarter September was better than the other months of the quarter.
Plus you had those floor models going out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear that that's a September issue that's -- I hope that continues.
And finally the new ad I saw on the web Love Waking Up what does that imply for the Ask Me campaign? And will we see that Love Waking Up campaign exported more to the general or broadcast media? The primary advertising on -- for the next little while is going to be -- is going to continue to be Ask Me.
And the fundamental premises of Ask Me are going to continue going forward.
We plan to evolve our advertising in the first part of next year and we'll talk more about that at the appropriate time.
Our next questioner is Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
You referred to the allocation issues on the new products.
I assume that was all new products.
I guess that's number 1 question.
And then number 2 was it being rolled out in such limited numbers at this point? I was surprised that was a problem.
Can you address that? Well what are you -- it's not -- when we rolled it out we had anticipated -- it has always been anticipated that these products will be in broad distribution.
And as we -- in general we have a sequence of rolling them out in stages.
And we were following that normal sequence and the sales sell through has been higher than we had anticipated so reorders were quicker than we anticipated.
And so what we have done is as a kind of temporary measure is stopped the rollout of -- to the next wave of customers.
Obviously it's frustrating for those customers.
But we felt that it's less frustrating to having product on the floor which they can't get for customers.
And then unfortunately there are some of our customers who were in that situation.
And as I said we're moving heaven and earth to get this fixed.
It's not something we're pleased about and we're addressing it as quick as we can.
And -- but we do believe we'll have it sorted in a couple of weeks.
So it's an issue and we're not happy about it but we're working hard to fix it.
But it is related to the new products.
Yes.
Sorry it is the new products we're referring to here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have an estimate of when you'll continue to roll out? Or when it will be done maybe is the question? I don't have the detailed plan but I anticipate that we'll be switching it back on again in a couple of weeks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a question for you Dale.
With the revenue guidance and the flat sequential gross margin it seems as though the EPS would be higher than what $2.55 that the year would imply.
Is there anything below the line that's unusual that's going to be affecting the quarterly number? No the only thing -- well the only thing unusual below the line in the third quarter you have a net benefit of approximately $4 million between taking out the $3.6 million of transaction costs and the LTIP benefit.
We are continuing to increase our R&amp;D spend because we have a lot of very good programs that we're pushing to bring to market early next year and other programs that are doing a lot of work on that are slated for mid next year.
From an overall standpoint one of the issues Keith is versus our prior expectations from a revenue standpoint.
The revenue change is International.
The third quarter International was less than what we expected.
And fourth quarter we're -- a significant impact around International.
The International particularly things that are more tangible more "variable" become a little bit less variable in the short term.
The commitment time line around advertising is longer internationally than it is domestically.
So we're already -- by the time we saw International or Europe slowing down a little bit you are already committed for the quarter.
So we're not seeing a lot of movement on expenses in the International business with the revenue slowing down there in the short term.
That said I would add one other thing is that we talked before the fact that the International business does react well to the advertising particularly in Europe.
We've seen that this year.
What we're seeing in Europe is very different than what we have in the U.S.
It's not a competitive situation.
It's a macro situation.
And that our belief is that the ROI on the advertising is -- it remains good.
So while we're being cautious about it we believe it's -- the most appropriate thing to do is to continue to invest there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Look in the near term until that takes hold is you're expecting that guidance International to deteriorate further in the fourth quarter? No.
We think that we've got a -- from what we can see the trends internationally we've got that reflected well in the guidance.
Next questioner in queue comes from the line of Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that last line of question in Europe.
What did the international trends look like as the quarter was wrapping up? And can you give us a better sense of what you would be looking for? And in constant currency are we still in an environment where you guys are going to be able to do positive sales growth? From a projection point of view we're projecting essentially flat give or take in the constant-currency base or our -- the projection is essentially flat in the constant-currency basis.
It's just a reflection of a slowing down that we saw at the end of the third quarter.
We think it's appropriate to project that for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just along that same vein Mark the Cloud rollout in Europe has really been a big success as it was in the U.S.
Can you just talk about slots in Europe and are we going to continue to see slot growth there? Are there any other things you can do to drive more organic growth in spite of the slowing environment? Yeah I mean first of all yes we are growing slots and we are growing doors.
And also and I know you know this but it's not just Europe.
Our International -- I mean our Asian business is growing very well.
For example Korea and Japan are both growing very well.
And in Europe in particular advertising is quite an effective tool and continues to be.
And I think that it's important to recognize that even in this tricky environment we grew 11% in the third quarter in Europe.
It's just that we all of us can see the macro environment is tough.
We believe the fundamentals for Tempur-Pedic and Tempur-Pedic's relative growth and Tempur-Pedic's market share are going to continue to develop.
We see -- that is not something we see changing.
It's more a reflection of the overall business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just ask one more question around the U.S.
business.
Is there any color that you can provide around the price points? I mean if we look back at your actions during the summer you lowered the prices on the Simplicity line.
You exited the Contour model.
You improved the Cloud model.
All price points $2 000 and below where you really made some actions is that where you've seen the greatest pressure? Or is it really across the whole line? Any more color would be very helpful.
Our AUSP has gone down.
And if you break it down the fundamental reason why the addition of Simplicity is clearly the biggest one.
There was the adjustment to the Cloud Supreme price which has had a -- it's had some effect too but the decline in our business is relatively broadly spread across the different parts of the business relatively even.
And I think what we are focused on and what I know a lot of customers are is that they're focused on making sure that the $2 500 and above segment of the market continues to grow for the whole industry.
And that's an area where obviously we're very focused on maintaining growth.
One of the advantages of the new products that we've just introduced the Cloud and -- I mean sorry the Breeze and the Weightless that they are providing consumers and retailers new products at those price points which are raising the AUSP for the industry.
[Operator Instructions] Our next questioner in queue comes from the line of Jessica Schoen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the question regarding the price points I was wondering as you start to see some of the pressure moderating is there any particular segment in your range of products where you see that stabilization coming back quicker than other parts? And is there any particular initiative you can point to that you have seen really have the most impact? Well I mean truthfully not really.
It is spread across the whole of our line.
And the initiatives that we're doing particularly the advertising and promotional things are aimed across the board.
So not really is the answer.
Research Division</strong> And then as far as the implication of the recently -- the pricing on the recently introduced products as for gross margin in the fourth quarter is there anything to be Forgive me say that again? Research Division</strong> Sorry the pricing of the recently introduced products if there's any implication of that on gross margin in the fourth quarter that we should be aware of? Not on price from a pricing point of view but from a -- as Dale was saying earlier like they have a lot of new technology in them.
And as a rule a new -- a product with a new technology generally has -- we haven't got down the cost curve as much as we'd like on some of our more established products.
And therefore they generally have a slightly lower margin.
And that is the case for these products.
Our next questioner in queue comes from the line of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
This is Josh Borstein in for David MacGregor.
Just a point of clarification did you say the $2 500 and up price point was still growing? No no no.
No.
Well I didn't say that.
And it maybe -- well frankly I didn't say that.
And if I did I misspoke because I wasn't talking to the whole industry.
What I was saying is it's an area of focus for us and for the industry.
Okay.
And then with the Weightless and the Breeze you had some allocation issues.
Could you say was it the Weightless or the Breeze that was on backlog? It was a bit of both but it was -- but the Breeze was the primary one.
Okay.
And is that an indication just that at this point in time it's selling better? Or was that due to some other reasons? It's early and we're in the middle of a rollout.
So it's sort of not just a question of how well it sells but how well it sells against the forecast of the rollout schedule.
So it's a little bit hard to read.
Having said that all indications are it's selling a little better than we expected and we're pleased about that.
And then just a final one on the drop of the price of the Simplicity.
Have you noticed any change in sales since that was implemented? Do you think it's better succeeded in moving people up who would have spent $800 to $1 000 maybe moving up to that $1 399 price point? We -- it's hard to frankly but we think that there is some benefit.
And the Simplicity has not been the big success that we had hoped it would be but it is still a material part of our business.
And we think that that pricing has had some effect.
Okay.
And then if I can just squeeze one more a maintenance question.
Could you give us an update on your door count for the U.S.
and International? Yes.
Let me see if I can read it.
North American doors furniture and bedding 8 200.
International -- is that right?  International's 5 600.
And about 400 of those in Canada is that still about right? Yes about 400 in Canada.
Next questioner in queue comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First in terms of the competitive environment obviously you've had a pretty sizable influx of competitors and they've been pretty active on the promotion side throughout most of this year well into the summer.
Have you guys seen any slowdown or pullback on their part in terms of the level of dollars that's in the trade at this point? I mean I can't say.
I don't -- as we've said there's been a degree from our perspective of stabilization but there continues to be -- it continues to be a very competitive environment.
And we can detect no -- I can detect no fundamental change at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up on that.
On a related topic here you mentioned earlier that the initiatives you're seeing or that you're implementing have been more expensive than you thought.
Could you kind of drill down as to why that is? Is it that the price reductions that you put through did not draw up the volumes you thought? Or is it that the -- that you had to increase the level of price increases and promotion activity throughout the quarter? If you can just give a little more color on that point that'd be great.
When we said -- I will and 2 pieces.
First of all when we talk about the new initiatives we always are including the new products.
And the new products because of what we've been talking about in terms of the cost of production have been more expensive than we had anticipated when we first projected what they would be.
So part of the cost of it is the cost the relative costliness of the new products.
The other part though have been the promotions and things that we've done with the retailers and we're learning how to do it.
One of the things we said on the last call was that we were going to do initiatives with different retailers and in different areas of the country and then we were going to measure them and calculate ROIs and work out which ones worked the best and which ones didn't.
And we're doing just that.
And we're learning.
Frankly we're learning as we go and we're going to get better at this.
And it is part of the world that we're competing in now.
But quite frankly some of them have been less.
Given it to do again we wouldn't have done some of them.
But on the other hand some have worked quite well.
And we're learning that.
And so this is sort of part and parcel of learning as we go here in this new world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one if I could.
In terms of the International business you mentioned trend seemed to weaken a little bit and that was related to the macro.
Why do think it took this long for the macro to start to impact you guys? And are there other additional distribution opportunities there? Or are you guys really kind of where you want to be at this point in terms of Europe in particular? Well remember that our penetration in Europe in particular our distribution is really quite good in terms of the number of doors that we have.
There are clearly some opportunities country-by-country.
We can always talk about 1 or 2 of the areas that we think that there's an opportunity for us to grow in distribution.
But obviously we are growing slots is a big area of focus which is why the Cloud rollout has been successful and the Sensation which is essentially the -- to a large extent can be described as the Weightless of Europe.
Those 3 product lines are enabling us to increase our slots.
And awareness is the big one which means -- which drives the turns in those areas.
And those are the 3 areas that we are very focused on.
And they continue to seem to be effective and continue to show and to make us believe that the penetration which we have in Europe right now which is much lower than it is in the U.S.
can get significantly higher.
In terms of why the macro environment hasn't affected us as much yet I think partly it's because we haven't -- we're not seeing it because we have been growing.
So we're sort of a little bit -- we're not seeing what the underlying trends are because we're doing quite well.
And what we're seeing now as I said it's still sporadic.
It's not like a fundamental across the board.
It's just a general sporadic weakening which is causing us to be a little cautious looking forward.
Our next questioner is Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First I would love to understand why Tempur-Pedic is focused more on growth than on margin.
From a returns perspective it seemed like margin pays more from a returns perspective to shareholders.
And I'd just love to understand the strategy.
No that's a fair question Joshua.
And the answer is this.
As we said when the environment changed for us quite dramatically earlier in the year that what we were going to do was -- that we believe very fundamentally specialty is going to continue to grow and that we're going to be in a very strong position to grow in specialty firstly because of our strong brand name; secondly because of our cost advantages because of our vertically integrated supply chain; and thirdly because of our focus on consumer innovation.
So we believe that the specialty category is going to continue to grow and that we are going to grow -- we should grow as fast -- we should grow faster than it.
And so we're very key -- it was very important for us strategically for a long-term return to shareholders to have a strong and growing position in this large market.
But what had -- but given the environmental changes that we had to do we had to approach this very quickly.
And we decided and we said it at the time that what we were going to do was step 1 we stabilize our business because we were declining very fast.
We had to stabilize our business.
Step 2 was to work out and implement plans that would drive growth.
And step 3 would be to continue to put our -- to put back our focus on productivity and cost improvements to get our margins back.
And so we have very deliberately and strategically approached it this way because we believe in the long run we're going to have the greatest return for shareholders having a big and thriving business with a very good margin than we would be if we were to just pull in our wings and allow the situation to do what it's doing.
It was a very conscious strategic decision one that -- obviously your question is a fair one.
This is the way we decided to approach it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Have you guys considered cutting guidance given what's happening both on the competitive side and just a limited visibility? You take a look back to 2004 2005 timeframe.
And as you guys were going through different struggles at that time there were a number of different cuts to guidance.
Are you guys committed to giving guidance on a go-forward basis? Generally we think it's a good idea and helpful to give you our thoughts.
However that's something that we can evaluate it from time to time but we're giving guidance today.
And so that's still what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You guys talked about the benefit of scale in competing across the whole market.
Can you somehow quantify that or at least give some more qualitative color around that? I know you guys are changing your approach to the business with the Sealy acquisition but I'd love to understand what the real benefit is of competing across the whole market.
Well there are several benefits.
But one of the obvious ones is that the raw materials of companies across the industry are very similar.
So there's opportunities for manufacturing and purchasing savings across the [indiscernible].
Another big one is distribution.
But although the different products are made and targeted at different consumers they can be carried in the same trucks and delivered to customers at the same time again an efficiency.
So there are areas of efficiency and there are also areas of benefit from for example shared R&amp;D that can work across.
So we think there are quite significant benefits of working across the whole.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you -- can you talk about the average hit to margin from bringing a new bed to the market? You are bringing new products to the market much more quickly than you used to.
And so there's always a lot of talk about the impact from rollouts and distribution.
So what I'm trying to understand is what impact were you guys seeing once a year that you'll now see somewhat closer to twice a year? I can't put an exact number on that.
And the answer -- because the answer is it will depend.
And so it's -- I can't give an exact answer and -- but it will depend and it is a cost.
And I think that one of the things that in this new environment we will continue to be innovative.
We know that the thing that really drives growth is innovation in this industry.
And as it becomes more competitive it's going to be necessary for us to innovate more frequently.
We have been innovators and we will continue to be.
Getting more and more efficient at doing this is something that we're going to obviously focus on.
But that is the price of poker in this new world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very last question ROI on advertising.
Can you tell us what it was and what it is today in this new world? I'm just trying to understand you guys have very high awareness.
And so I'm really trying to understand what the ultimate benefit is of an additional dollar of advertising in quantitative terms.
As soon as you get that that would be very valuable to a lot of people.
It's a hard thing to do.
I can -- if you do it in internationally in Europe in countries where awareness is very low it's -- one can actually over a relatively brief period see lifts in sales that can be attributed to advertising and it's a very relatively easy calculation.
In countries like the U.S.
where awareness is quite high it's a different thing.
What it does drive is it drives -- it doesn't drive awareness as much as it drives propensity to buy and frequency of purchase.
And it is a -- one of those things that is valuable and we know it is and obviously all the companies that are effective marketers would agree.
But furthermore it's not something that has a return that happens the day you do it.
It's not like you do it on Monday and you get a benefit on Tuesday.
It is beneficial over doing it over time.
So something we are focused on it's a very important part of our business mix.
But we are very confident that building our brand is a key to our ongoing success.
Our next questioner in queue comes from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions.
First off on the sales cadence for the quarter I guess some of the chatter that we hear out in the industry is that Tempur-Pedic does pretty well on the off-promotional weekends.
But on those promo weekends like Labor Day when the competitive environment steps up with a lot of competitor TV commercials that's where you guys see a real weakness.
And I guess if that's the case it might explain why your sales had improved towards the end of the quarter.
Is that kind of a fair observation for what you guys saw in the third quarter? Not really in the sense that first of all our business follows the cadence of lifts at promotional weekends.
So that is -- we do also have a sales cadence that looks like that of the industry.
Now the truth is historically a few years ago we used to promote a lot less frequently.
And therefore then in those days it was more true like you described.
But it is less so now.
However we are still a company as a proportion of our total marketing.
Obviously we still allocate a large proportion of it to direct to consumer.
And therefore we have less of a promotional vent than do some of our competitors.
And this is something that we're kind of tweaking as we go forward because as we become -- as we said we are putting more programs to be retailer and promotional-targeted.
And that does imply that we're working more on -- that we're increasing our effectiveness at some of these promotions.
So I would say that fundamentally it's not true but it is an area that we can improve upon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe give you just a follow-up on that Mark because I appreciate the answer.
With the sales improvement that you saw is there something that you could point to whether it is particular new initiatives that are working? Or with the rollout of the new beds that picked up was there something that was the main driver or just general improvement overall? I think the new products are contributing.
But I also think that as I've said we are doing effective programs with different dealers and there are areas where it's clearly working.
And so we've got to get this more widespread but it is clearly working in some areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
Then a separate question real quick.
On the long-term incentive compensation adjustment and I know it's clearly a painful adjustment for you.
So right now you would not anticipate that as adjusted as reflected in your -- on your guidance but I guess if there was further downside to your numbers whether it's Q4 or 2013 is that also something that could turn up from time to time in certain quarters again? Well yes if you look at it.
Our LTIP programs are 3-year programs.
So 2010 program is still in place.
There's 2 months left on it.
So we have an assessment of where it will be and could that change? Yes it could between -- during the end of the year but that one's almost over.
2011 and 2012 there's 2 components to these programs.
There's an option component and then a PRSU performance restricted stock unit component.
The PRSU component of these programs is variable.
There are a number of metrics that have to be met for those programs to vary.
And they can -- the variable component of it can be terminated.
But based on the business performance this year the 2011 and 2012 variable component of the LTIP programs are no longer on the table.
They've -- we broke the minimums.
Next questioner comes from the line of Jon Anderson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I understand that the new products as you roll those out the Breeze and Weightlessness that the initial costs are perhaps higher than on some of the existing lines.
But how quickly can you kind of get up to comparable margins in those new product lines? Is there a -- do you have some visibility on that? It depends.
Dale said it a little earlier.
He said it depends on the degree of new technology.
And both these new products have new -- significantly new technology for us.
So a that means they're from a higher hurdle and b it means that we've got kind of a longer path to go down before we can get them down to comparable prices.
So I mean there's no rule of -- there's no single rule that applies to everything but it's going to take a little while.
It's going to take a little while.
I don't want to put an exact number on it but this is not something that's going to get fixed in 3 months or 6 months.
It'll get better but it'll take time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any reason to believe that these new products with the new technologies you describe Mark you can't reach gross margin profiles in line with the balance of the portfolio over time? In the long run that would be the intention.
But we always -- that's what we always target.
But as I said it takes time and it will take more time for newer things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the backlog that you experienced in the third quarter how much did that cost you in terms of sales? And do you expect to largely clear that in the fourth quarter? Do you mean backlog of new products? What do...
Research Division</strong> Yes the backlog.
I think you said there was...
No that was essentially within this -- that's relatively recent.
That hasn't had any significant effect on the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just for clarification on the G&amp;A run rate.
It gets to an earlier question.
Dale is it fair to assume you've kind of been at around $36 million or so on a quarterly basis if you X out the benefit of the -- or if you X out the LTIP adjustment you're in that range as well? Is that a good way to think about the G&amp;A run rate going forward? Jon you're including R&amp;D in that? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last question guys.
I know you can't talk much about Sealy but is there any reason to believe that kind of the acquisition of Sealy and the combination that that could bring more discipline to the industry in terms of pricing and promotion because it sounds like it's still quite aggressive at the moment? We've said that we think that the potential value for us with Sealy is this broad portfolio of products and brands and technologies.
And obviously there are some potential cost synergies as I described a little earlier to a previous question.
That's the way we're thinking about it going forward.
And we do have time for 1 final question.
Our final questioner comes from the line of Eric Hollowaty with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Earlier this year you opened your first company-owned and branded store outside of Boston.
And we've heard through the grapevine that a couple of others are in the works.
And I'm wondering if you could just give us an update on what you've learned from the opening of that Boston store so far and how you're thinking about the company-owned store angle as a strategic thrust going forward? These stores are -- we call them flagship stores but they're marketing stores.
The purpose of them is to put Tempur-Pedic in a showcase in a place where there are a very large number of people who generally are not considering buying a bed.
That's kind of the idea of these things.
We're going to have probably 3 in the -- we're opening another 1 very shortly and we'll open another 1 in the beginning of next -- in the first half of next year.
So we can see our way to about 3 right now.
And they're still an experiment.
And the tests that we're running with them is not just that they're successful as stores in their own right but moreover that the volume or the business in the kind of geographic area surrounding the store is lifted by them.
And we've experienced this in Europe where we've got some stores like this.
And it really does have an effect.
It raises the awareness.
And if you think about it people buy beds only once every 10 years.
And when they do they're only thinking about it for a very short period of time.
What we know is that a very small proportion of the population has never tried a Tempur-Pedic because everybody -- pretty much everybody's heard about it.
Very few people have ever tried one.
If it's in a nice environment in a mall like these ones are it gives people that opportunity.
And so what we're learning from this store that's been open a few months now is that that seems to be true.
We seem to be getting a pretty good number of people coming in and just trying the beds who had no knowledge or intention of buying a bed in that period.
Our sales are within the range of what we had hoped for to be able to kind of cover the costs.
And so so far the experiment seems to be going quite well.
We're also learning obviously other things like managing a store and so on but we're -- I'm pleased with the process that we're making.
I mean obviously another part about it is it's not just bedding it's accessories and it's the other parts of that.
But we're learning quite a lot.
I'm quite pleased with how that experiment is going.
And with that I'd like to turn the program back over to Mr.
Sarvary for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you and we look forward to talking with you all again in January when we host the fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Thank you again gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's program.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Attendees you may disconnect at this time.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur-Pedic Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mark Rupe.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Sam and thanks for everyone participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales earnings or the proposed transaction with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements and/or Risk factors.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide a brief overview of our performance in the fourth quarter an update on the progress of our recent initiatives and then outline our strategic focus areas for 2013.
Dale will then provide details on the fourth quarter and full-year financial results and 2013 guidance.
Our fourth quarter results were in line with our projections both in North America and internationally.
Sales overall declined 7% with North American sales down 9% and International sales down 4%.
In North America we continue to see signs of stabilization driven by many of the initiatives we launched in the third quarter.
Rollouts of our new TEMPUR-Breeze Weightless and Cloud Select products are now essentially complete and we've been pleased with consumer response to these new products.
In particular the response to the TEMPUR-Breeze mattresses has been quite positive.
These mattresses feature phase-change material and our proprietary TEMPUR-Climate material and they deliver a proven cooler sleeping surface during the night.
These mattresses are very different from other products on the sales floor especially those that use gel memory foam.
Those products are often advertised as being cooler.
But in fact the gel technology is ineffective in its claim that it will help consumers sleep cooler than they [indiscernible] has recommended that a competitor withdraw comparatives [indiscernible].
Our R&amp;D efforts will continue to be focused on [indiscernible] and also are proprietary and consumer-valued and that allow retailers to attract new consumers and to improve their average retail selling prices.
In 2013 we will launch several new products that will continue to broaden the appeal of Tempur-Pedic and some of those will be on display next week at the Las Vegas Bedding Show including a new mattress collection the TEMPUR-Choice collection.
TEMPUR-Choice will initially comprise 2 mattress models priced at the higher end of our price range.
The collection is designed to deliver the superior comfort and pressure relief of our proprietary TEMPUR material while offering the added benefit of adjustable firmness and support across multiple zones on both sides of the bed.
Initial retailer feedback has been very positive and we expect that it will not only be incremental to our business but also to theirs.
I'll save the rest of the details on TEMPUR-Choice and the other planned product introductions for the show.
Switching now to our International business as I said our fourth quarter sales were down 4% consistent with recent projections.
While we continued to perform well in some of our key European markets such as Germany weak economic fundamentals in Europe as a whole pressured our performance.
On the other hand our Asia-Pacific business continued to perform well during the period reflecting solid performance in the key markets of Japan and Korea.
New products will also be a major focus for our International business in 2013.
We have just begun shipping a new and entirely updated TEMPUR Original collection to our customers in Northern Europe and will roll it out to other regions during the year.
Initial customer reaction has been quite positive and modest slot [ph] gains are expected.
There will also be other new product introductions later in the year.
In addition to new products we remain committed to our other 3 key strategic initiatives: Building awareness increasing availability and investing in R&amp;D to ensure we continue to deliver the best sleep.
2013 we will maintain significant advertising levels in both North America and internationally.
And as you may have seen we are now working with a new ad agency here in North America and we're working on new and enhanced advertising.
Ask Me was an outstanding campaign for us for several years however we believe it is now appropriate to evolve our brand communication.
Internationally we will continue to invest in building awareness and driving conversion in our key European and Asia-Pacific markets.
We expect to gain incremental distribution throughout the world partially from our new products within existing doors and partially from new customers.
And finally our R&amp;D investment in 2013 will further increase and ensure that our pipeline of innovative new products remains robust.
Before turning the call over to Dale I want to provide a brief update on our proposed acquisition of Sealy.
We are excited about the potential for the combined companies.
TEMPUR and Sealy will have a portfolio of highly complementary brands products technologies and geographic footprints that will provide a robust platform for growth.
We have made substantial progress toward achieving the closing and we expect to close the deal during the first half of 2013.
With respect to the HSR antitrust review Tempur-Pedic and Sealy are continuing to cooperate with the Federal Trade Commission in its review of the proposed acquisition.
On January 22 2013 both the company and Sealy certified [ph] to substantial compliance with the FTC's second request of documents and information concerning the acquisition.
By agreement the FTC will have 45 days following substantial compliance to review the additional materials and information submitted by the parties.
As Dale will discuss in more detail in December we entered into a new senior credit facility and closed on a senior note offering so we are also well-positioned from a financing perspective.
In addition with respect to the purported class actions challenging the merger as described in more detail in the 8-K filed today Tempur-Pedic and Sealy have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the plaintiff's lawyers to resolve this litigation in order to avoid the expense and uncertainty associated with litigation.
This MOU is no admission of wrongdoing and no change to the deal terms.
There will be an updated disclosure in Sealy's information statement to be circulated to its stockholders.
This removes the litigation as a potential impediment to closing.
And finally we continue to work with Larry Rogers and the Sealy team to prepare for a very successfully integration once the required regulatory approval is received and we're making very good progress.
I'm sure you understand our constraints in discussing additional details regarding the transaction.
We will be sure to provide an update when appropriate.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the fourth quarter and full year 2012 financial results and our 2013 guidance.
I will also review the highlights of our recent financing transactions that support our planned acquisition of Sealy.
Let's begin with an overview.
In total fourth quarter net sales were $341.1 million a decrease of 7% over the same period last year.
North American net sales were down 9% and International net sales decreased 4%.
Now by channel North American retail net sales were $207.8 million a decrease of 8%.
International and retail sales were down 7% to $87.9 million.
On a direct basis our North American direct channel sales decreased by 17% to $17.5 million while our direct sales internationally increased 64% to $12.3 million.
By product overall mattress sales were down 5% on a unit decline of 2%.
North American mattress sales decreased 5% on a 2% increase in units.
In the International segment mattress sales decreased 7% on a unit decrease of 8%.
Total pillow net sales decreased by 8% on a 10% decrease in units.
North American pillow sales decreased 26% on a unit decrease of 21%.
International pillow sales were up 11% on a 5% increase in units.
Sales of our other products which include items that are normally sold along with the mattress were down 11% in total and down 13% in North America and down 8% internationally.
Gross margin for the quarter was 50% down 200 basis points year-on-year and up 80 basis points sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis fourth quarter gross margin declined primarily due to the following: product mix and higher new product cost and floor models associated with rolling out the new products.
These impacts were partially offset by improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution.
On a sequential basis gross margin increased 80 basis points as a result of favorable commodity costs decreased promotions and discounts and geographic mix.
These benefits were partially offset by product mix and increased manufacturing and distribution costs.
Advertising spend in the fourth quarter decreased 14% to [ph] $33 million from last year's fourth quarter.
As a percentage of sales advertising spend was 9.8% in the fourth quarter compared with 10.6% in the fourth quarter last year.
Despite the slight reduction in advertising we've continued to see positive trends in our brand awareness and purchase consideration due to a more effective advertising spend.
Excluding transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy transaction and restructuring costs we maintained G&amp;A expenses relatively comparable to last year's level in the fourth quarter.
We increased R&amp;D expense in the fourth quarter by 69% year-over-year by [ph] $4.5 million.
Operating income was $51.3 million or 15% of sales as compared to $85.8 million or 23.4% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Operating income in the fourth quarter of 2012 included $7.6 million of transaction and integration costs related to the proposed Sealy acquisition as well as $1.5 million of restructuring charges.
Interest expense was $5.8 million and included approximately $900 000 related to the closing of our recent high-yield bond offering.
The tax rate was 48%.
The tax rate reflects the provisions for taxes recorded with respect to the anticipated repatriation of foreign earnings which in total was $6 million in the fourth quarter.
Without this tax impact the normalized tax rate for the quarter would have been approximately 32.5%.
We recorded earnings per share of $0.39 on a GAAP basis for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.60 in the fourth quarter.
Now I will summarize the income statement for the full year 2012.
Sales were down 1% in total North American sales down 4% and International sales were up 6%.
Operating margins declined to 18% in 2012 from 24% in the prior year.
As a reminder operating income for the full year 2012 included $11.1 million of transaction and integration-related costs and $1.5 million of restructuring charges.
GAAP EPS for the full year 2012 was $1.70.
Adjusted EPS was $2.61 down 18% as compared to GAAP EPS of $3.18 for the full year 2011.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
Our accounts receivable balance was essentially flat at 34 days.
Inventories were up $2 million year-on-year or 2%.
Inventory days increased 2 days to 49 versus the prior year.
Payables were up 9 days primarily due to timing.
During the quarter we generated $36 million of operating cash flow and capital expenditures were $12 million.
As it relates to our debt position we were very pleased to have recently announced the closing and signing of several financing transactions necessary to finance the acquisition of Sealy and to pay related fees and expenses.
With these we are now positioned to fund the acquisition.
In mid-December we completed a $375 million offering of 6 7/8 senior notes due in 2020.
We also entered into $1.77 billion senior secured credit facilities comprised of a revolving credit facility of $350 million a Term A facility of $550 million and a Term B facility of $870 million.
Total proceeds from the sale of the senior notes have been placed in escrow pending release upon receipt of regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to the completion of the Sealy acquisition.
And similarly the credit facilities are expected to close and fund in connection with acquisition of Sealy.
As a result of these financing activities we felt it was important to note that we will be incurring certain interest expenses.
On the senior notes we have already pre-funded into escrow $20 million of interest expense.
We will accrue it as defined under the terms of the notes.
We will also be paying ticking and certain other financing-related fees on the $1.77 billion senior secured facilities until the transaction closes.
Further there will be transaction-related costs incurred at closing as well as deal-related financing and transaction closing fees amortized over several years thereafter.
We plan to recognize these transaction-related expense items and adjust for them accordingly in our non-GAAP performance results.
As detailed in the press release our total indebtedness increased to $1.025 billion due to the $375 million bond transaction.
Our funded debt of $651 million at the end of the fourth quarter was relatively comparable to the third quarter level.
The cash balance increased by $28 million to $179 million primarily driven by our international operations.
Now I'd like to address guidance.
The full year 2013 guidance we provided today is stand-alone for Tempur-Pedic.
It does not factor in anticipated net sales or earnings from Sealy in 2013.
The company plans to issue updated guidance after the closing of the transaction for the combined entity.
With that background we currently expect 2013 net sales to be approximately $1.425 billion an increase of approximately 2% versus our 2012 total sales.
And we currently expect 2013 adjusted EPS to be approximately $2.55.
The first quarter is a challenging comparison.
We are expecting mid to high-single-digit growth thereafter.
It's important to note that our 2013 adjusted EPS guidance does not factor in transaction and integration costs related to the proposed acquisition of Sealy interest expense costs on the financing transactions just described or the future tax provisions to be provided in connection with the anticipated repatriation of foreign earnings together with the transaction.
We project our gross margin to be slightly down for the full year as compared to the 50.9% recorded in 2012.
We believe that any anticipated benefits from our productivity programs and the slight fixed cost leverage will be offset by product mix and anticipated slight commodity cost increases.
We project our operating margin adjusted to exclude Sealy transaction and integration costs to be approximately 17.5% to 18%.
We'll be accruing for our equity incentive programs at a more normal level in 2013 as compared to 2012 which benefited from an adjustment of $10 million.
We anticipate interest expense for the full year to be approximately $20 million under our current debt facilities.
We anticipate capital expenditures will be approximately $35 million.
We anticipate the full year tax rate excluding APB 23 to be approximately 32.5%.
We are using a share count of 61.5 million shares for the full year.
We do not expect to repurchase any shares due to the pending acquisition of Sealy.
Let me give you a little context for our guidance.
The $1.425 billion sales guidance for the full year is consistent with the methodology that we've used for the past couple of quarters specifically projecting that current trends will continue.
Our fourth quarter sales of $341 million annualized with industry seasonality would be approximately $1.425 billion.
We believe that it remains prudent to plan the year this way.
That said our first quarter is the toughest comparison of the year.
We're planning for sales to be flat to slightly down as compared to the fourth quarter 2012 sales of $341 million.
We expect our adjusted operating margin to be approximately 17% in the first quarter.
Through the first 3 weeks of January we are tracking to these projections.
In considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequence of other risk factors we've identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Baugh of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could just go into the International piece and particularly as it relates to guidance.
Maybe give a little more detail about specifically where the pockets in Europe are weak and what the assumptions are going forward in that region of the country? And then walk around the globe you mentioned Asia-Pacific strong what the outlook there is? Let me give you some commentary and then maybe I'll ask Dale if he could just give a little bit of the numeric detail.
But from a -- we've been reading obviously a lot about Europe and the weakness in Europe.
And we have as we've said in previous calls seen weakness in pockets of Europe.
We've never seen the systemic weakness across the whole of Northern Europe.
We've seen pockets of weakness.
But we've seen like I said in the prepared comments some strength for our business for example in Germany despite the fact that we know that the industry in Germany is actually quite struggling.
So we are seeing pockets of strength and occasional pockets of weakness in Europe.
But as of yet we still haven't seen a systemic weakness in Europe but we have been cautious about it and we continue to keep our eye on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Mark what specifically are you going to be doing in Europe in terms of advertising new products or if you will things outside of the macro that may drive the business in '13 versus '12? Or will it be very similar in terms of what you were trying to do last year? It's similar -- similar but it's continuation.
So for example as again I've said in some of the countries like Germany and other of the major European countries advertising is quite effective.
And we find that it has really quite good ROI and we will continue to invest in those countries in doing that and building awareness.
And remember that our awareness levels in Europe are still way way lower than they are in the U.S.
And secondly we'll continue to introduce new products.
I talked about the new TEMPUR Original which is essentially a new version of our original line and it's improved in a variety of ways.
But what it is is a continuation of the intention of broadening the offering in each of the retailers so that they will carry some representation of all 3 of our collections the Original the Sensation and the Cloud and because we know that having that range of offerings is what really -- it makes sales really take off in a given store.
So those are both continuation but there's a lot of road left in there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my last question is but beyond advertising both U.S.
as well as outside of U.S.
Could you tell us -- I don't think you gave us what it was as a percentage of revenue for the year just ended and then what -- rough guidance for those 2 regions for '13? Okay.
For the year -- John I don't know if you're still on for the year ended -- for the full year or...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Full year full year '12.
For the full year '12 North America obviously was down 4% in '12.
Our International business was up 6% for the full year '12.
Our Asian business actually was -- Asia-Pacific business actually was up more than that 4%.
Our Asia-Pacific business for the year was up double digit.
Our European business was up kind of probably broadly and I don't have it exactly in front of me but the European business probably was up in the low-single digits but some countries performed very well.
Certainly Southern Europe was especially weak as you might expect.
And there were some pockets of weakness in other parts of Europe that as we experienced through the year in general the overall European market got softer.
As we're looking at 2013 we are expecting as I said earlier from a North American standpoint first quarter continues to be a very difficult comp.
But for the balance of the year we expect North America to be up mid- to high-single digits.
On the international side of the business we are expecting our International business to be up for the year in the low- to mid-single digits.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
This is actually Chad filling in for Budd.
A couple of questions.
I was surprised to hear you say that domestic mattress units were up 2% year-over-year if I heard that correctly.
Can you give us a little bit of color on where you saw that growth and kind of what drove that? Well the first thing I want to say is that it's a little bit colored by the fact that we had floor models.
So if take out new floor models it would probably be down 1% or so.
But it's still fine as the stabilization that we've been talking about.
And it's consistent with what we had expected.
Obviously there is a greater proportion in the fourth quarter of products of the -- well there is Simplicity included in the fourth quarter which wasn't in the fourth quarter of last year and obviously those retailed at a lower price.
So that affects the sales the sales not the units.
But the units are relatively flat year-on-year.
Okay.
And so if I do the math in domestic mattress AUSP would have been down roughly 7-ish percent and of course that's affected by the floor models that's affected by Simplicity as well.
Any other major drivers of that or does that really sum it up? No that sums it up.
Okay.
And just a housekeeping Dale would you repeat what you had said about what your expectation is for Q1 operating margin? Yes.
That's 17% on an adjusted basis excluding transaction and the things related to Sealy.
Got you.
And talking a little bit about some of the other product categories.
It looks like domestic other sales lagged mattresses.
Can you talk a little bit about what's going on there? I would have thought that maybe around the holidays that would be a better category.
Has there been any kind of a change in the adjustable attachment rates or any color you can give us there? The bottom line is you're right.
The adjustables is the key component of that and the adjustable attach rate hasn't changed materially in retail at all.
There was a promotion in the prior year in the fourth quarter and last -- 2012 we had it in the third quarter.
So that caused some change of it.
And also it's like the attach rate on Simplicity which is our biggest seller on direct is slightly lower.
But there's no fundamental change to the attach rates overall.
And the floor models impacted that as well.
Yes of course.
You don't have Ergos on floor models.
Okay.
So technically year-over-year it was down because of the promotion in the prior year the floor samples and the Simplicity mix issue.
But structurally you don't think there's any major change there.
Is that the right interpretation? That's exactly right.
That's exactly right yes.
Okay.
And Mark I was very much intrigued by your comments about TEMPUR-Choice and an adjustable firmness product.
Can you give us any more hints about it? Are we talking about an adjustable air bed? Any other teasers that you could provide? We are quite excited about it.
But as I said it is first and foremost a Tempur-Pedic bed.
And it has TEMPUR material and it is -- provides the support and the comfort of TEMPUR it feels like TEMPUR.
But it does have the ability to adjust and I'm not going to go into great details but it does use air as a component of its overall structure.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
Just to build on the International question I know historically your European gross margins have been somewhat greater than your North American gross margins.
So as you put together your guidance for 2013 what are you assuming in terms of change with that relationship? Actually David we do expect the International gross margins to continue to be higher.
Now as we've talked frequently there are 2 components to that.
One is the fact that the North American business pays a royalty to our Danish business where the technology was developed.
So it's one pocket to another but it does affect comparatives gross margins.
And then we have the benefit internationally of just slightly higher pricing with thinner mattresses so there's a little bit less cost in them.
But from a go-forward standpoint we would not expect that to change dramatically.
Actually over time those royalty rates are reducing so that will squeeze the difference a little bit but not dramatically in the short-term like a year.
With respect to the quarter just completed can you just talk a little bit about variance and unit volumes within the price points in North America? Yes.
No we don't break our business down by price point for obvious competitive reasons.
Sure.
I just wondered if you could talk qualitatively in sort of bigger scale mix.
Well the only thing I would say is we had some new products the Breeze products that performed very well.
Those are higher-priced.
So the higher-priced segment was benefited by the strong uptake on the Breeze.
The other new products that we introduced Weightless did well but the Breeze was the one that was more of the shining star right out of the gates.
Okay.
Great.
Final question just again back to the guidance could you to talk about your net sales growth for next year 1.5% 2%.
What are you assuming in terms of net sales growth for North America versus net sales growth for International? As I said earlier for the balance of the year -- for the whole year numbers what we are looking at is International business being low- to mid-single digits and U.S.
business actually for the balance of the year being similarly in a low- to mid-single digits.
We look at them as potentially having roughly the same growth rate but over the course of the year now it won't come out that way.
So that's why I gave a little bit of a range on each but we do expect both segments to show growth next year.
Okay.
And one more if I could just quickly.
You talked last quarter about number of manufacturing issues you were facing with the Breeze and the Weightless.
I'm just wondering if those have been cleared up or whether those conditions would continue to the extent that they might impact shipments around some of the new products you're going to roll out next week.
Well the Breeze -- the issues with the Breeze and the Weightless have been resolved.
And there would -- the issue as we said on the call last time we had underestimated the demand.
And so it was a function not so much that we weren't manufacturing it's just that we didn't realize how many we were going to need.
So that has been addressed.
And on the new products we're going to do as we do with any product we're going to make sure we have the amount of inventory and so on that we need.
But again there's always a degree of risk when you're projecting what things are going to be.
So I think we've made the right preparations and I think -- but I can't say until we're further down in the path.
But we've made the same preparations as we normally do.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Reza Vahabzadeh of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dale on the gross margin guidance can you just maybe outline some of the key puts and takes that goes into your thinking whether it's input costs sales leverage mix anything of that sort? Yes for this -- for 2013 as I said earlier from a gross margin standpoint we're expecting very slight decrease in gross margin on a year-over-year basis flat to slightly down.
And that's really a function of a couple of things.
One we are expecting some slight increases in commodity costs; number two the big negative driver there is product mix as the Breeze is doing well Weightless is doing well I think one of the things David may have been hinting at earlier but didn't specifically say is with any new product you can have some startup costs but then also these are brand-new technologies that are a little bit more expensive technologies and any time you have a completely new technology you've got a tremendous learning curve to go through to improve the cost.
So the mix of those.
And then we've got other new products that we're going to be introducing this year along with Choice and others.
So those are the key negative factors that are affecting gross margin this year but we do expect -- our productivity program is back and fully invigorated.
So we're looking for good productivity improvements and ideally a lot of those will come on some of the new technologies to improve those margins over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And maybe Mark if you can just outline some of your assumptions and your comfort around North America sales being up mid-single digits starting in the second quarter.
What goes into that thought process? Well it's a function of the comparison.
I mean obviously we've got a tough I don't know if you can call it a good compare but a horrible compare whatever from year-to-year.
But the other thing though is that obviously the steps that we took in the third quarter which created the stabilization that we started to see is going to have the effect going forward.
And that's one component of it.
And the effectiveness of our promotion and promotions and so on is one component of it.
And then the other component is that we're going to have a full year of Breeze which is Breeze and Weightless which are both doing quite well.
So whereas that was something that didn't exist in the first half of last -- in the second and third quarter of last year it does this time.
And also we have the new products that we will be launching at Vegas and then again we expect that there will be more again in the August Vegas.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So the full impact of the new products to be launched in Vegas you expect them to be realized and impact your sales I suppose in the second quarter? Second half starting in the second quarter.
We'll start rolling out the new products from the January Vegas the show next week.
We will start rolling those out in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then did you outline your new product introduction cost and the inefficiencies that go along with that for 2013? Reza we actually have never really broken that out.
It's something that is an ongoing component of the business.
Probably for 3 quarters of any given year we have new products rolling out.
The floor model cost associated with that is partly a function of the price of the products and also a function of how broadly distributed it becomes.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
And we'll go ahead and move on to the next question.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Bonanza Chalaban in place of Brad.
So just going back to the fourth quarter.
You had a good improvement sequentially in top line trends from the third.
Could you maybe just talk a little bit about the trends and how they played out intra-quarter? We would just be interested because one it seems like consumer spending was a little bit choppy during the quarter from a macro perspective; and two you had a lot of initiatives going on and it sounds like those are gaining traction.
Yes.
I mean the fourth quarter was relatively consistent through the quarter.
There was obviously the hit of...
Sandy.
Sandy which did have an impact.
But within the bounds of normal volatility that one gets because of when Christmas falls and so forth it was relatively consistent through the quarter.
Except for Sandy which wasn't consistent.
Sandy impacted a couple of weeks there pretty severely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you just launched the Breeze and Weightless in August of last year.
It appears that you're going to be launching a couple of more in the coming weeks and months of this year.
How many models do you think is the right number to be launching each year? And do you think something like 2 is the right number or are the company resources being a little stretched? I think that's a good question and it's an important question.
The critical way to think about this is that we need to be sure that the product range viewed as a whole is A is optimized from obviously from our point of view but very importantly from a retailer point of view.
We want to make sure that the range of offerings we have in totality provide a very broad range of -- satisfy the needs of a broad range of consumers at premium price points in a differentiated manner that are effective together for the retailer.
Some part of that is -- some component of that is adding new products as we find ways to meet the needs of consumers that we until then had not been able to meet the needs of and sometimes it's going to be improving products that exist already.
And overall it's going to be viewing it from a category management point of view of how do we optimize the collective offering.
And that is something that will be of increasing importance to us in this year and going forward.
Over the last years we've grown from having a relatively smaller group of offerings to quite a larger -- to having a large group and it's important but they -- and we always think about this how they fit together.
So it's not so much as saying we can have 1 or 2 new products a year as it is we are constantly working to optimize the collective -- the range as a whole.
Our next question comes from Jon Andersen of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with -- gross margin improved sequentially I think you said 80 basis points.
You talked about that -- one of the reasons for the improvement I guess was less promotion less discounting.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing from that standpoint at I guess the retail and wholesale level? Do you think we've hit a point where the worst of that is behind us? Well what it is I would say is more of an efficiency gain than -- as I said when we started to modify our approach in light of the competitive environment that we were going to be working at ways to improve our effectiveness in promotions with retailers and that some of the things that would work well and some would work less well but that we would learn and we would apply what we learned.
And we are doing just that.
And I think we're getting a bit smarter and a bit more efficient.
But on the other hand I think it's an ongoing process of learning and we will continue to learn and continue to develop.
So it's not like we now know the answer and we're going to apply it.
But on the other hand I think we're a lot -- we're smarter than we were and we will continue to get smarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
A point of clarification on your sales guidance for the first quarter.
You had commented earlier that you expected sales to be flat to slightly down year-over-year.
Was that accurate or flat to slightly down sequentially? Sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Given that it looks like that kind of implies a double-digit decline on a year-over-year basis which would be the -- that would be the I guess the highest decline over the past year which is just a little surprising to me given the commentary around some improvement or bottoming in North America.
Just any color there would be helpful.
Yes.
Well I think from a color standpoint as we said we did have benefit in the first quarter this year of -- I'm sorry in the fourth quarter.
So from a sequential basis the Breeze the Weightless were still -- and we just started shipping those in September the bulk of the rollout occurred in the fourth quarter.
They're basically substantially complete and from the rollout of those products by the end of the year.
So that did have a benefit to the fourth quarter that is not going to be there in the first quarter.
Plus on a year-over-year compare we did have the Simplicity starting to roll out at the end of the first quarter last year that we're not expecting today to start shipping the new products we'll introduce next week until the second quarter.
And then from an International standpoint which is also a key component we are not expecting internationals to turnaround on a dime.
The International business is hanging in there.
Asia Pacific continues to do fairly well.
Europe has been a little disappointing with the economic environment but we don't expect that suddenly -- substantially get better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
I guess you can could see why I would raise the question because the compare actually -- the Q1 compare year-on-year is easier than the compare you had in Q2 3 and 4 of '12.
And it seems like things are getting better on the margin in North America.
It just feels like maybe there's some conservatism in that maybe that's what I'm trying to get a sense for.
I think as Mark has said before from your mouth to God's ears.
Yes we'd love for that to be the case.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on Jon's question.
I mean obviously I understand the commentary you gave regarding the timing of new product introductions et cetera.
But if you look back historically seasonally I think it's been probably 4 years since the financial crisis where you haven't seen a sequential improvement from 4Q to 1Q.
I mean is it all due to timing? Were there certain promotions that might have happened late in the quarter that might have pulled some demand forward? Yes.
No Joe we understand that from the North American standpoint seasonally there's usually a little bit of an uptick in the first quarter.
However internationally seasonally there's a downtick in the first quarter from the fourth quarter performance.
Our view is -- the way that we're that we're trying to look at this is we had benefit in the fourth quarter not from a promotional thing but from the rollout of the floor models and we don't really have floor models in the first quarter.
We have new products that we're going to be introducing next week that we think people are going to be very excited about.
The retailers that have seen them are excited about them but they're not going to start shipping until the second quarter.
So we think that there's just some -- we haven't totally turned the corner here yet and ideally we're just thinking that there's a little bit of pressure there.
And so it's going to be between possibly a little bit of benefit in the U.S.
the International seasonality is lower there.
And so we're just trying to balance and from an outlook standpoint thinking the current trends are what we should continue to guide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the Choice line is that going to replace an existing SKU or collection or is that going to be completely incremental? That's a new line.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's completely incremental.
And then just lastly just in terms of the advertising I think you said in the fourth quarter of this year was 9.8% of sales and I guess full year was 11.8%.
What do you think that looks like in '13 and how much of that is going to go toward the Choice line? Is that going to be disproportionate behind Choice or is it to be spread out amongst your different new offerings? The amount -- the plan is to spend something a little bit less than we spent last year.
But still a very healthy amount in excess of 10.5%.
And also in last year we spent disproportionately in the first half and not so much in the second half.
This year we'll spread it more evenly across the year.
And as far as how we're going to focus it in general we use advertising that applies to -- the bulk of our advertising will advertise the whole line and then we'll use some of it to introduce new products.
But in general we'll tie them together.
So it's -- we're always going to be -- we'll communicate obviously we'll advertise the Choice line but it will certainly not be the only thing we advertise.
The bulk of our advertising is about the brand Tempur-Pedic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the spread amongst the advertising dollars will be relatively normal as we've seen in past years? Exactly.
Exactly.
Our next question comes from Jessica Schoen of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit about new product introductions at the higher end of your pricing range and investing in R&amp;D to drive innovation and potentially ASP.
I was wondering how your assumptions about ASP fit into your guidance for the top line in 2013? Well Jessica we would expect to -- ideally it would be nice to see some ASP benefit.
Certainly in 2012 we saw some ASP reduction but we are shifting the focus a little bit more to the higher end of the line.
Simplicity was an ASP drag in 2012.
The change in economics was a bit of a nasty drag in 2012.
Those economics will continue but items like Breeze and some of the other new products that we will have that will be focused a little bit more to the higher end of the line.
Ideally we'll start to reverse that trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the comment about the initiatives you've rolled out over the last year and continuing to learn about the impact of different initiatives as well as the commentary about decreased promotions and discounts in the quarter.
What -- is there anything baked into the guidance for gross margin in 2013 that we should be thinking about about any potential further evolution of those initiatives? No what I said about gross margin is we expect gross margins to be down slightly in 2013 and it really is not a function of changing economics or anything it's a function of product mix.
As I said earlier some of the newer products particularly with the brand-new technologies start out at a little bit lower margin than fleet average gross margin.
And ideally as we build volume and build learning we learn to make them less expensively and we're able to improve the margins on those products through lower cost.
So that's really the expectation that we're looking at there.
In our outlook on gross margins we are not thinking that there's going to be additional or a radical change in economics.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Peter Keith of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> The is actually Jon Berg on for Peter tonight.
Dale just a couple of housekeeping questions left from us.
And the first one is could you give us an update on your domestic and international door counts? Sure.
Let me pull that out here.
Door counts on the international side the door count is right about 5 700.
Last quarter was 5 600.
So about 100 doors added there.
On the domestic side looks like door count is up about 50 so it's right about 8 700.
Now that's the total North America.
So a number that you would more readily recognize that includes Canada.
So 8 300 for U.S.
that's the number we generally talk about.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly if you look at your International sales what were they on a constant-currency basis? Yes constant-currency impacted International.
It didn't affect the total business just because of the size relative sizes of the business.
Constant currency though did affect the International negatively about 2 points in the fourth quarter.
So currency was less of an impact than it's been all year but that was principally because the dollar strengthened late in 2011.
And so the comparison there and then it weakened a little bit here in the fourth quarter of 2012.
So the year-over-year compare was much closer in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one if I could sneak it in.
On the -- and I apologize I might have missed some of this but I think you said you were going to be switching away maybe from the Ask Me campaign.
I was just curious on -- did you mention any timing around that when that might occur this year? We are -- our new campaign the one that we -- our new campaign that we would anticipate going with for an extended period will launch in the second quarter of this year.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions have been asked but just on pillows and domestic pillows could you give us sort of a feel of what's happened there what you're going to be going in the future? I know it was down substantially year-over-year? Yes.
The pillows is a bit lumpy to begin with and there are -- and it does get affected by some retailers buy in substantial quantities in one quarter or another so it can make it move quite a lot.
But the overall -- pillows is something that we are not pleased with and it's something that we will continue to focus on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we have several questions on the first quarter.
When did Simplicity kind of hit its peak in terms of sales in 2012 so we can consider that comp? Second quarter but it was substantial throughout the year.
It's not like it's gone away.
It's still a substantial contributor today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But it hit run rate in the second quarter? That's what I believe.
Yes that's what I believe.
But it would be second or third.
But the point is it's not right you wouldn't be right to project it like a spike.
It rolled out during the second quarter primarily.
And its sales therefore would have been augmented by the floor models.
And while its sales have slowed it is still -- I just -- forgive me I don't have the exact numbers off the top but don't treat it as a spike.
It is throughout the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess finally on Tempur-Pedic Choice we'll see more about it next week.
But in terms of support for retailers the adjustable business has always been one that the independent retailers at least when Select Comfort was an independent retailer they always struggled with the whole sales process a little bit it was a little bit different.
Is that something you're going to address with your support for retailers or is there different plan? Any sort of details on that would be helpful.
Listen seriously that is a -- clearly we've given good consideration to that and we -- but I think it would be much better and I'd like to address that question when we're standing in front of the collection in Vegas next week.
Our last question comes from Joan Storms of Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on just list [ph] of retailers and relationships and things there.
We know because Mattress Firm is a public company that they had specialty beds had increased in their stores from around the 10 count to sort of the low 20s and it seems to be sort of staying there.
Can you comment on still there might be opportunities out there with other retailers that are up-and-coming or other large ones that may be playing catch up in the specialty field or how are you feeling about their addressing the specialty business? I think it's fair to say that across-the-board specialty is growing.
And I think that what people are recognizing is that it's important as the -- the retailers are across-the-board I think recognizing that it's important to make sure that as they grow the specialty business which is one that not only is growing in aggregate but also is one that has very good consumer response is that they want to make sure that they're maintaining their ASPs.
I know that a lot of the retailers are making sure that they put a focus not just on specialty per se but on making sure that they're focused on premium specialty.
And I -- so that's something obviously that we encourage because we are committed to providing products that are innovative and that can justify a premium price and meet the needs -- and make -- deliver a happy consumer who doesn't return the bed.
So I think that's where retailers are increasingly focusing across-the-board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just briefly we have seen a couple of articles and trades -- in the trades I guess regarding iComfort not being able to compare some of their advertising product to yours.
Do you foresee any benefit from that if that is the case? We take very seriously the importance in all of our commercials in making sure that things are -- can be validated and are justified.
And obviously we're very proud of the fact that Tempur-Pedic mattresses are -- sleep frankly cooler than any of the competitive ones and with our new Breeze products sleep materially cooler than regular mattresses.
So we just want to make sure that the right messages are getting out to the consumer.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mark Sarvary for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We look forward to talking with you all again in April when we will host the first quarter earnings conference call.
And I hope I'll see many of you in Vegas next week.
So thanks a lot everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur-Pedic First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like the turn the call over to Mark Rupe.
Thanks Jamie.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K under the heading Special Note regarding forward-looking statements and/or risk factors.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are posted on the company's website at tempurpedic.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everybody and thanks for joining us.
We have a lot to cover on tonight's call.
As you are aware we completed the acquisition of Sealy Corporation on March 18 which was a transformative event for our company and for the industry.
Clearly we're just at the start of what will be a multi-year process to capture the full potential of this deal but both Larry Rogers the Chief Executive of Sealy and I are pleased with our early results.
As we previously announced we intend to change our corporate name to Tempur Sealy International and are currently seeking stockholder approval on our upcoming Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May.
We are now a much larger and more diverse business.
We have the strongest brand portfolio with the most highly recognized brands in the world.
We also have the most comprehensive suite of bedding products available in the market with products for almost every consumer preference and price point.
In fact our products are distributed through more channels and to more places globally than any other bedding company.
And this is just the beginning.
The combination of Tempur and Sealy will be exciting for consumers and retailers.
Our long-term sales and earnings growth potential is significant.
And our pace of innovation will remain vibrant and we are committed to brand marketing investments.
In addition to the very attractive cost synergies we expect to achieve in the next few years we expect to realize attractive upside from revenue synergies as a result of a broader product offering and access to more channels including international expansion.
At the same time our strong cash flows will enable rapid debt reduction.
So with that introduction here's the agenda for tonight's call.
I will start with a brief overview of our performance in the first quarter then provide an update on the Sealy integration and then discuss our near-term strategic initiatives.
I will then turn the call over to Dale who will provide details on the first quarter financial results and then discuss our updated full year 2013 guidance.
Our first quarter results were in line with our projections for both Tempur North America and Tempur International.
Excluding the Sealy segment Tempur-Pedic sales declined 11% with North America sales down 16% and international sales up 2%.
As indicated on our last earnings call the first quarter was expected to be our most challenging comparison of 2013.
Not only did we achieve record sales levels in both North America and international in the first quarter of 2012 but the industry also experienced historic growth.
Despite an industry backdrop that was softer than anticipated in the first quarter of 2013 we did meet our projections.
Our North American business was stable with flat sales on a sequential basis.
The continued success of our recent new products Breeze and Weightless offset the somewhat softer-than-expected base business.
We remain confident that the Tempur North American business is now positioned to return to growth with the expectation that the second quarter will show positive net sales growth driven by the launch of several compelling new products.
Tempur International continued to perform well in certain key European markets such as Germany and France.
However weak economic fundamentals across the continent pressured our overall European performance.
Conversely our Asia-Pacific business continued to perform well during the period reflecting a solid performance in the key markets of Korea Australia and Japan.
Although Sealy was only part of the new company for 2 weeks in the first quarter Sealy's full fiscal first quarter sales for its last stand-alone quarter ended March 3 2013 increased 8.8% to $339.6 million.
Now I'll provide an update on the Sealy integration.
As I indicated in my introductory remarks fully capitalizing on a major acquisition like this will take some time.
But we're off to a very good start.
The integration so far is progressing smoothly and as planned.
I'm pleased with the combined organization and continue to be impressed with how both Sealy and Tempur leaders are working together to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the combination.
Our collective teams are quickly implementing plans to capture synergies they identified before the deal was completed and developing additional plans and strategies for both near and long-term opportunities that prior to closing we were restricted from discussing.
We are pleased with our progress to date on identifying and implementing cost synergies.
They're coming in slightly higher and slightly faster than planned.
We currently expect to realize approximately $15 million in cost synergies in 2013 to areas such as improved purchasing leverage and combined transportation and distribution.
We remain committed to achieving cost synergies in excess of $40 million by the third full year.
One of the positive aspects of the combination is that these cost synergies provide us with incremental opportunities to strengthen our business.
In 2013 we plan to invest some of the upside realized from the cost synergies back into our business including investing more in advertising and marketing.
Now I will discuss some of our near-term strategic initiatives.
Product innovation and brand marketing are the hallmarks of our company.
We will continue to invest in innovation and further building our brands.
From a product innovation perspective we are quite optimistic about both Tempur's and Sealy's 2013 new product introductions that were launched at the January Vegas Bedding Show.
Tempur introduced the Choice Collection as well as the new Ergo Premier adjustable base the Cloud Luxe Breeze and the Cloud Allura.
The rollout of our new Ergo Premier adjustable base started late in the first quarter with the bulk of the floor models expected to shift during the second quarter.
We're not only replacing the advanced Ergo adjustable but we're also getting incremental placement.
And the magnitude of this rollout is significant with most of our retailers having multiple adjustable bases on their floors.
The new Choice Collection is initially comprised of 2 mattress models priced at the higher end of our price range and is designed to deliver the superior comfort and pressure release of our proprietary Tempur material while offering the added benefit of adjustable firmness and support across multiple zones on both sides of the bed.
We expect to begin shipping the new Choice Collection in the next couple of weeks.
In April we started shipping the new Cloud Allura and the TEMPUR-Cloud Luxe Breeze will ship later this quarter.
Retailer feedback and interest in the new Tempur products remains very positive and we're expecting placement to be slightly higher than we had initially anticipated at the time of introduction at the Vegas Bedding Show.
At the Vegas show Sealy introduced its new Sealy Posturepedic line as well as new Stearns &amp; Foster products.
The new Posturepedic line consists of 3 collections: the classic series the gel series and the hybrid series.
The hybrid series in particular is new for Sealy and is truly a hybrid since it is constructed of half memory foam and half springs.
The market for hybrid mattresses in general is burgeoning.
The new Posturepedic line began rolling out to customers in the first quarter but the bulk of the rollout will occur in the second quarter with 75% of it expected to be complete by Memorial Day.
Placement of the new line is up relative to the previous 2011 launch and we are optimistic about its prospects.
While still very early the new Posturepedic offering is off to a good start showing positive growth at those retailers where it's currently offered.
Sealy will also be rolling out an addition to its Stearns &amp; Foster Estate Collection consisting of 5 models as well as the new Stearns &amp; Foster Monogram memory foam collection a 3-bed offering.
These new mattresses will also be sold primarily in the second quarter.
We're very excited about the new Tempur and Sealy products but launching this many products in a single quarter will be a challenging task.
As Dale will discuss in a moment we're expecting to shift nearly 70 000 new-product floor models in the second quarter alone which at Tempur will be a quarterly record and for Sealy will be its largest of the last 6 years.
The lower margins of floor models coupled with the cost of related point-of-purchase materials will be significant and will pressure our margins in Q2.
That said the fact that the placements are better than initially anticipated bodes well for our growth in the second half.
Going forward we will continue to invest in R&amp;D to leverage the combined technologies of our portfolio to deliver a stream of innovative products that will resonate with consumers and grow our retailers' businesses.
In addition to innovative new products we also remain very committed to building awareness through continued advertising investment.
Our advertising investment in 2013 will be significant and will accelerate as the year progresses.
Both Tempur and Sealy will be introducing advertising campaigns in North America in the second quarter.
In closing we now have a couple of months into working as an integrated company and our confidence of the long-term potential of the combination is stronger than ever.
While we are working hard to capture the synergies we're also refining our long-term plan and we intend to share this with investors at an Investor Day in the fall of this year probably September.
With that I will now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the first quarter financial results our new capital structure and then our 2013 guidance.
For the first quarter results I'm going to focus on the legacy Tempur-Pedic results with comparisons against prior periods for Tempur.
I will then address Sealy's first quarter results.
Further as the result of the combination with Sealy we've updated our reporting segments as well as our product and channel categories.
The changes will allow for a more consistent measurement and performance across each of our operating segments as well as clarify our relative performance to the overall industry.
The first quarter results are presented in this new product and channel categories and historical Tempur-Pedic data has been posted to our Investor Relations websites.
With all the data included in the earnings release I'll provide a commentary on the key areas or items where there's notable variance from the prior year.
Tempur-Pedic sales for the first quarter were $343 million a decline of 11%.
Tempur North American sales were down 16% and international net sales up 2%.
On a constant currency basis international sales were up 3%.
By product bedding net sales for Tempur North America decreased 16% to $204.6 million on a unit decline of 10%.
Tempur International bedding net sales were essentially unchanged at $89.3 million on a unit increase of 10%.
Net sales of other products for Tempur North America decreased 13% to $21.3 million due to a decrease in pillow sales during the quarter.
On a direct basis Tempur North America net sales decreased by 41% to $14.4 million which we believe is due to lower media spin during the second half of 2012.
Tempur International direct sales increased 71% to $11.3 million driven growth and company-owned stores and e-commerce.
Overall our first quarter net sales were $390.1 million and included $46.7 million of Sealy sales during the stub period.
As Mark indicated some commentary on Sealy's fiscal first quarter results ended March 3 2013 was included in our earnings release.
Sales increased 8.8% to $339.6 million and were driven by growth in specialty products at premium price points and Comfort Revolution joint venture offset by weakness in innerspring for the Sealy brand and Stearns &amp; Foster brands the latter of which had difficult comparisons from the prior year introduction.
Operating profits were influenced by certain charges as noted in the earnings release as well as investments in national advertising.
Excluding the impact of the Sealy's results Tempur-Pedic's gross margin decreased to 51.7% from 53.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
On a year-over-year basis Tempur-Pedic's first quarter gross margin declined primarily due to the following: product mix deleverage and increased promotions and discounts.
These impacts were partially offset by lower commodity costs and positive geographic mix.
On a sequential basis Tempur-Pedic gross margin increased to 51.7% from 50% as a result of decreased promotions and discounts as there were fewer floor models decreased distribution cost lower commodity cost and favorable geographic mix.
The total including 2 weeks of Sealy results the first quarter gross margin was 48.3%.
There are 2 key points that investors will need to consider on the combined gross margin in the business going forward:  One Sealy traditionally operates at a lower gross margin than Tempur; and two Sealy historically recorded freight in SG&amp;A while Tempur has recorded it in COGS.
As a result by conforming to Tempur's accounting Sealy's historical gross margin would be lower.
Excluding Sealy Tempur-Pedic advertising spin during the first quarter decreased 22% to $36.6 million from last year's first quarter.
As a percentage of sales advertising spend was 10.7% in the first quarter compared with 12.3% in the first quarter last year.
We plan to increase our level of advertising investment as the year progresses.
Overall operating income was $44.3 million or 11.4% of sales as compared to $86.1 million or 22.4% of sales in the first quarter of 2012.
Operating income in the first quarter of 2013 included $16 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Tempur-Pedic operating income was $47.2 million while Sealy had an operating loss of $2.9 million principally due to the acquisition-related inventory revaluation and transaction and integration charges.
Interest expense was $27.9 million and included approximately $19.9 million of certain costs incurred related to the Sealy acquisition as presented in the earnings release in the reconciliation of net income to adjusted net income.
The tax rate was 17.1%.
The tax rate for this quarter reflects certain discrete tax items.
The normalized tax rate for the quarter was 30.1%.
We recorded earnings per share of $0.20 on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.62 in the first quarter.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
As shown on the balance sheet the primary changes are related to the acquisition and related accounting treatment.
For the Tempur business our total cash cycle on a year-over-year basis improved 6 days primarily related to improved payable terms.
During the quarter we generated $37 million of operating cash flow and capital expenditures were $5.6 million.
As it relates to our capital structure the company's senior secured facility consisting of its Term A Term B and revolving credit facility and senior notes were funded with the closing of the acquisition.
In addition with respect to Sealy's 8% senior secured third lien convertible notes due 2016 $96.2 million remained outstanding as of March 31 2013 which represents the fair value of the notes.
Going forward the Sealy 8% notes outstanding will accrete interest semiannually through maturity in July 2016 unless converted prior to that date.
As a result the company now has consolidated funded debt of $2 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.4x calculated on a combined basis for Tempur-Pedic and Sealy in accordance with the company's new senior secured facility.
A calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
We plan to improve our capital structure in the near term by repricing and downsizing our Term B debt.
As a result of a portion of the Sealy convertible notes remaining outstanding we need less debt under our new senior secured credit facility than our current structure has.
We believe that this repricing will lower our estimated annual interest expense.
The fees associated with the repricing will have a payback period of less than 1 year.
As we indicated last October with our third quarter results the transaction has provided us with the opportunity to create a tax-efficient structure whereby we will have the ability to utilize in excess of $1 billion of future foreign cash flow to be principally used to reduce debt.
We would like to ensure that our long-term investors appropriately understand the long-term value of this.
Related to this you'll also recall in the third and fourth quarters we incurred tax charges related to APB 23.
With the closing of the transaction and new structure certain adjustments were made and we had a benefit in the first quarter that reduced the accrued tax expense.
In the future the company will no longer recognize APB 23 charges.
Now I'd like to address guidance.
The full year 2013 updated guidance issued today incorporates Sealy.
To be clear our guidance and related commentary reflects a full year of Tempur-Pedic results but only Sealy results from March 18 2013 through the end of the year.
We currently expect net sales to be approximately $2.5 billion adjusted EBITDA of approximately $435 million and adjusted EPS of approximately $2.75 including purchase price allocation and tangible depreciation and amortization of $0.21 a share.
We expect PPA of $25 million on an annualized basis with $19 million to be recognized during 2013.
Future inquiries leverage associated with the Sealy acquisition and the importance of maintaining adequate cushion with respect to our financing covenants we will have an increased focus on adjusted EBITDA while reducing our debt burden.
We're also providing the following additional full year 2013 guidance assumptions: Depreciation and amortization of approximately $97 million with an annualized run rate of $108 million; interest expense of approximately $89 million excluding transaction-related charges with an annualized run rate of approximately $107 million which does not reflect any benefit from any proposed refinancing of the loans under our new senior secured credit facility; the tax rate is expected to be approximately 32% for the full year 32.5% on a go-forward basis; share count will be approximately 61.6 million shares for the year and 61.7 million shares on a go-forward basis; capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $60 million.
Given the lack of prior year comparisons we are providing some color on the phasing from Sealy's prior fiscal year reporting calendar as well as specific guidance for the second quarter in an effort to help investors.
We do not typically provide quarterly guidance but given the absence of a comparative data we determined it to be appropriate in this situation.
Investors should not expect any future quarterly guidance.
Sealy's fiscal year was approximately 1 month off a normal calendar year.
From a sales-mix perspective we expect that the shift of Sealy's business to the calendar year will increase their first and third quarters by approximately 70 to 90 basis points each and decrease Sealy's fourth quarter by approximately 150 basis points with the second quarter essentially unchanged.
In the second quarter of 2013 we're projecting net sales of approximately $670 million.
This guidance implies 4% to 5% growth for both Tempur and Sealy as compared to the calendar second quarter in 2012 and will be slightly down from first quarter sales had Sealy been included for the full quarter.
We expect our gross margin to be approximately 41%.
Our gross margin in the second quarter is being influenced by 2 fundamental items.
First Sealy had lower gross margins than Tempur and incorporating Sealy into Tempur significantly lowers the overall gross margin.
We estimate that the inclusion of Sealy for the full second quarter alone will lower the overall margin by approximately 600 basis points.
This includes the reclassification of Sealy's shipping and handling into COGS from SG&amp;A which are on a comparable basis to Sealy's historic gross margins as a reduction.
Second we have a record number of floor models being shipped in the second quarter for both Tempur and Sealy that will pressure not only gross margins but also operating margins.
As Mark indicated we expect to ship nearly 70 000 combined Tempur and Sealy floor models in the second quarter.
For the second half of the year we would anticipate our gross margins to range from 43.5% to 44% as the bulk of the floor model shipments will be incurred in the second quarter.
We expect our operating margin in the second quarter to be approximately 9.5%.
Our operating margin is being influenced by lower gross margins as just discussed but also by higher sales and marketing cost to support the launch of the new products as well as by increased stock compensation.
Based on these factors we are projecting second quarter adjusted EBITDA of approximately $90 million and adjusted EPS of $0.40.
It's important to note that our 2013 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS guidance does not factor in transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Sealy or interest expense cost on the financing transactions prior to the March 18 close.
In considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequence of the other risk factors we've identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the lines line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Brad Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First just a question on the guidance and I really appreciate all the details you're providing on the call here today.
But I was hoping maybe you could kind of step back and talk about how you're thinking about the core Tempur-Pedic business compared to maybe the 255 estimate that you had before and what you're looking for from Sealy.
And then I think you said $15 million cost synergies on top of that.
Maybe if you can just address that it will be very helpful for us.
Brad this is Dale.
From a guidance standpoint we essentially are maintaining our existing Tempur guidance.
As Mark mentioned the first quarter came in as we expected.
So with Tempur as a baseline we are then adding a expectation for the Sealy business.
Keep bearing in mind that we really only had Sealy for 9 months this year.
We’re also then adjusting for the purchase price amortization which this year will be a negative for us of about $19 million.
Interest cost versus our prior guidance is $69 million higher.
If you recall our prior guidance was based on no transaction and no change in the credit agreement.
But now that the transaction is completed the credit agreement is in place and when you incur -- include the deferred financing costs related to setting up this new credit agreement they will impact us versus our prior guidance of $20 million for Tempur by $69 million.
And then we have a benefit of the synergies that we -- Mark mentioned.
And part of that synergy we're going to allow to fall through and part of it we're going to actually invest more in the business.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask one follow-up on the North America business I was hoping you could just talk a little bit about the competitive landscape within memory foam and how you expect that to change.
For one now that you are lapping the difficulty that you had last year and for 2 now that you own the Optimum brand which had been one of your bigger competitors.
Well first of all you're right.
I mean we're lapping the difficult quarters of the second 2 third fourth quarters of last year.
And as we said we do anticipate that we will have growth this quarter and indeed for the rest of the year.
And the driver of that obviously is some of the new products that we introduced in the second half of last year the advertising that we're going to start this quarter and of course the new products that I talked about that are going to drive growth in the second quarter to some extent but largely in the third and the fourth quarters.
And then from the point of view of Optimum.
Optimum is clearly another important competitor in the memory foam market and until originally March 18 obviously both companies were operating with business plans that were not coordinated at all.
As time goes forward we'll look to see how they can best utilize both these brands but both of them are going to be important brands going forward.
The next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify 1 number.
The $0.40 guidance you talked about in the second quarter that does include some of the purchase price allocation.
Is that correct? Yes we are including the purchase price allocation in our guidance.
As I said that's for this year $19 million.
So it translates to about -- for the year about given the tax rates and share count assumptions it translates to a negative $0.21.
So on a quarterly basis it will be $0.07 per quarter drag.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the TEMPUR-Choice launch is it moving as expected in terms of the rate? And is that product currently in any retailers right now? The product hasn't yet shipped to retailers.
It's about to shipped next week I believe.
But the demand for it has been as I said the floor models that we are projecting the demand for it has been quite good.
So it's -- we have yet to sell anything to the consumer so it's too early to tell but initial indications are good and the demand from retailers has been very positive.
Research Division</strong> And I guess final question as you look both within Sealy and Tempur-Pedic's business has the pace changed in the last month or 2 versus what you'd seen in previous periods? Forgive me the pace of what? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The pace of sales has it improved or stayed the same? Essentially there's been no dramatic change.
I mean the industry has been weaker in the last -- over the last period.
So that continue -- it continues to be a choppy environment.
There's nothing fundamental that we've seen changed.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
This is Josh Borstein in for Dave MacGregor.
What is the guidance assumed for advertising cost in the quarter? And I think you mentioned how it will accelerate but could you say how it's going to fare over the year? Sure.
Now keep in mind that on a go-forward basis versus the first quarter now we're on a combined-business basis.
So on a combined business though we are looking for advertising to -- I'm having difficulty seeing these numbers be about 12.5% on a quarterly basis.
That may fluctuate up and down a little bit.
But for the full year it would translate about 11.6%.
But as we said we are planning to on the Tempur business increase the rate of advertising spend.
And we said we would increase the rate of advertising spend as we started the year.
And we continue to believe that's what we want to do and need to do.
So the advertising spend for the Sealy business this year is up significantly versus what they did last year.
Great.
And then on the European business could you just state and especially in relation to guidance what you expect there? I think you had mentioned mid-single-digit growth was your expectations.
Is that still case? And in addition you called out Germany and France.
Are there any other countries of either strength or weakness you can point to? Well the countries -- especially Germany and France are doing relatively well which is as you know it's surprising because those countries overall are not that great.
The -- Spain and Italy are places where there's particular weakness and Benelux.
So it's the southern countries plus we this quarter had some issues at Benelux.
I would add in our original guidance we said we thought the International business would grow low to mid-single digits.
We were up 2% in the first quarter with growth in Asia offsetting weakness in Europe.
So I would continue to expect some something in the at this stage low-single digits as opposed to mid-single digits.
Great.
And then just one related one to the International can you update us on the TEMPUR-Original collection oversees? The rollout in -- what countries now that rollout has transpired and what countries are left? I'm not sure exactly where and which ones are essentially rolling out across the country.
In the first quarter it went through Northern Europe it's hitting Southern Europe in the second quarter.
It should hit Asia and the U.K.
U.K.
is always towards the end due to different regulatory environment.
But it should hit Asia and the U.K.
in the third quarter.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Jessica Schoen from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The guidance you mentioned for the rest of the year assumes a mid-single-digit revenue growth rate I believe and I was wondering if you could tell us where that fits into the context of your expectations for the overall industry? Does it assume market share gains or does it seem a more in-line type of growth rate? If you look at the industry as a whole if you take the projections for the industry as a whole and given the weak start to the first quarter of the industry as reported you would anticipate the growth rate of sort of mid-single digits for the industry.
As we look -- we are basing our projections to a large extent based on our current run rates with some adjustments for the expectations of the new products.
But if you put that together it says that basically we'll be growing at about the rate of the industry.
Slightly more but roughly in the same rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on the information you gave us about the first -- Sealy's first quarter and their 8.8% revenue increase.
Is there any color you can give us on different categories or regions as to how their business was -- how your business is trending? Sure.
The International business was up about 6%.
So domestic in total was up about 9.5%.
There was some benefit there from Comfort Revolution but that's the key.
As I mentioned earlier the drivers of the growth were the specialty line and Comfort Revolution.
The next question comes from Chad Bolen from Raymond James.
I guess maybe to piggyback a little bit on what I think what Keith was asking earlier I understand the tone of business for the industry has been a little sluggish so far this year.
But could you address for us maybe the year-over-years in the domestic business through the quarter and maybe what you saw in April? I mean did it get less bad? Did it turn positive? Sort of what was the cadence of the business? We're not going to go into the monthly split out here.
And what you said was right which is that it has been a bit up-and-down a bit choppy.
But from our experience it was relatively meeting expectations but it continues to be still an uncertain environment as you say.
And Mark you did kind of reaffirm the annual synergy target of $40 million but you did say you're pleased with the early results.
They seem to be tracking a bit ahead for this year and you sort of seemed to hint at some opportunities or things that could develop from here now that you've had a little bit more of a look under the hood at Sealy.
How do you feel about the opportunity to ultimately exceed that $40 million goal? And could you put any more specifics around how you're thinking about revenue opportunities? Well on the cost side I mean I think that the synergies that we have achieved so far are essentially ones that we had anticipated when we did our initial plan.
It's not like we found something that we didn't think about.
What we've been pleased about how quickly we can get them -- and they do seem to coming in a little higher than we'd anticipated in the first period.
So we're genuine -- and it is quite good.
And it would imply that there may be more than the $40 million in the third year.
We're looking at that.
It's too early to change our position on that but it does -- it's certainly a better indicator than the alternative.
And what we hope is that by the time we get to the meeting in September with the Investor Day we'll have another -- we'll take that opportunity to say whether or not it makes sense to change that $40 million target.
And on the revenue? And on revenue sorry.
The revenue -- clearly revenue is important but it will take longer because obviously it will take time for us to work together to do the things like building the distribution or building the new products as we work together capitalizing on each other's international infrastructures and so on.
But again those things too those synergies too do appear to be as we had anticipated now that we had a look under the hood.
And so again they're going to take longer but I'm quite -- those 2 seem to be quite real and quite tangible.
And Dale I think you said the number for CapEx for this year was $60 million? Could you flesh it out a little bit kind of what areas you plan to invest in? And should we expect maybe a stepped-up level of investments in the next year or 2 as you kind of integrate Sealy and longer-term what's maybe a normative CapEx level and what does that mean for free cash flow I guess? A multi-part question for you sorry about that.
No that's great.
Well we -- $60 million is roughly the amount that we expect on a go-forward basis for some period of time.
I don't know if it's forever.
But that -- and the reason why I say it may not be forever is a component of that is we are putting some money into IT.
And I think since the time we announced this deal we said we need to put some more CapEx into IT.
We want to get the businesses standardized on systems.
But that's not something as you know that you can do overnight.
It takes multiple years.
The good thing is Tempur has been in the process of standardizing on the new platform and will incorporate Sealy into that process.
Beyond that the other area that we had mentioned in terms of looking at Tempur is with a lot of the new products that we have been developing particularly Choice particularly the Premier Ergo (sic) [Ergo Premier] and the fact that we've taken that design capability and manufacturing ownership in-house that leads to some production tooling around the electromechanical aspects of these products that we haven't been historically spending on.
So that's why we're expecting to spend a little bit more on CapEx than if you just add the 2 businesses together.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just first question I wanted to talk about the promotion environment.
How would you guys characterize it today versus a year ago or even maybe last fall? It seems like we've got a little bit of an abatement of promotional activity.
I'm curious if you think of that as a lull or is this sort of the new normal for the industry? If anything Joe I would say slightly more promotional than it has been versus saying it was a very promotional event.
So I -- certainly in any trend that would tell me that it -- I certainly haven't seen anything that would tell me that the trend has changed is what I'd say.
You are Joe right now sitting at kind of in the middle of the promotional lull just naturally in the calendar.
The promotions tend to be around the major holidays.
Last year there was possibly in some of these lull periods there was a little bit more promotional activity not necessarily to the consumer though as a lot of the new products were rolling out.
But those tended to be retail-oriented promotions as opposed to consumer-oriented promotions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because it seems like when discussing things with other retailers that the level of promotion activity had kind of subsided a little bit but it sounds like that's not the case.
But I think -- I mean as I said I haven't seen anything that definitively that tells me that that's the case.
People continue to promote around the holiday periods and plans are that they will continue to do so.
So I haven't seen anything that's changed that fundamentally.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly in terms of the long-term outlook for this business the combined Tempur Sealy you guys talked about the Tempur standalone long-term margins.
I'm just curious if you're at this point capable of giving us what the long-term margins gross and operating are for the combined company at this point? What we're going to do is those longer-term questions obviously it's an important question but it's a longer-term question.
First of all I'd say that the positioning of Tempur as a premium mattress with a premium price at a higher AUSP and to fund both the investment and advertising in the investment and product R&amp;D is going to continue.
So it's not as if there will be some sort of changing of that strategy.
And the strength of Posturepedic and the other Sealy brands will also be leveraged.
So -- but they're not going to be -- they're not planned to change that change the basic way of going to market.
However what that boils down to and what that's going to imply for a combined margin in the longer term we're going to defer answering that until the Investor Day when we lay out the longer-term plan and what our objectives are for top line growth and bottom line growth and the implied gross margins.
The next question comes from John Baugh from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quickly just I wanted to be clear on the advertising spend as a percentage of revenue.
And I guess maybe if we could just talk about a Tempur standalone and then maybe Sealy because my understanding is their technical ad spend's a lot lower than yours.
I'm not sure how you're treating co-ops.
So if you could discuss any of that.
Yes I think you're right John.
I think that the -- it's one of those things that we're still as you can imagine we're putting together 2 different ways of recording all different aspects.
And so there's a degree of not apples and oranges here.
The Tempur -- if you talk about the Tempur spending the Tempur spending in the first quarter is around… 10 points 10.6.
10.6 and we're projecting for the full year right now to be about 11.
And so that -- and that may move a few tenths of a point as well.
Sealy advertising is -- they have it split differently than us.
Their direct advertising however I obviously can’t share the exact number with you but likely it's going to be substantially up from last year.
Last year was a quite high number and the direct advertising is going to be substantially up from that.
So it's 12.5% rate.
So that's what I'm trying to clarify.
It's more like it's at a comparable rate to what they had last year in terms of absolute level but it's going to be substantially more than that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we'll switch out or Sealy will switch out some co-op for direct and the presumption is [indiscernible]...
Sorry you're breaking up.
Say that again? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the assumption is that for Sealy the total amount will be similar but there will be more direct and less co-op.
And the presumption there is that the direct is working for them.
The direct is -- they do believe the direct is working that there will be more of it.
How that's funded whether it comes directly out of co-op or not that I'm not getting into right now.
But the fact is that the direct advertising they're pleased with how it worked last year and then tend to continue to increase it this year.
The next question comes from Peter Keith from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- if you could just comment on the Sealy business which did see a nice revenue increase but saw on an adjusted basis the operating income decline $6 million.
What were the kind of the puts and takes in that quarter that caused that EBIT decline? Yes well selling and marketing was up specifically related to advertising.
The national advertising was up significantly on a year-over-year basis almost $5 million.
And that's more than what they did the year before.
So that's part of what we're saying.
The national advertising on Sealy is going to be up substantially this year compared to what they did last year.
That was really the primary driver.
Okay.
So thinking about that ad spend for Sealy continuing to pick up and I'm not sure if you said it in the script but within the guidance does that assume then that that Sealy business grows on their EBIT year-on-year or is it going to a continue to decline a little bit because of the higher ad spend? No we would expect some growth from Sealy both on the top line and some EBIT growth.
And last year -- I don't want to comment on their last year.
It was a very different environment.
But we would look to see some improvement in EBIT for that business.
We’re expecting mid-single-digit growth for this year.
We would expect to see some growth in EBIT even with the increased advertising spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good to hear.
But one last just a quick clarifying question for me then on the second quarter.
I appreciate all the detail.
So the gross margin is a bit depressed it sounds like the floor model's shifting.
Is it fair to say that's about a -- is it a 250- to 300-basis point impact to gross margin in Q2 from that dynamic? Yes the gross margin the floor models is the driver of the gross margin pressure in the second quarter.
There will be some -- there are some other factors.
We are experiencing a little bit of negative geographic mix in the second quarter from the standpoint -- the International business the second quarter is their weakest quarter.
So on a sequential basis it's hard to do sequential when we had Sealy for 2 weeks but in terms of the overall look we are seeing a little bit of pressure on geographic mix but the floor models is the primary driver of gross margin pressure in the quarter.
And like we said we believe that the run rate gross margin will be on the combined business 43.5% to 44%.
The second quarter we're looking at a 41%.
So a couple of points there heavily influenced by floor models in both businesses the 70 000 is both businesses.
But Sealy is rolling out the majority of their new Posturepedic line in the second quarter Tempur-Pedic is rolling out the Choice and the Cloud Luxe Breeze.
But for Tempur really the biggest item is the Ergo Premier.
Because the Ergo never was a big driver for floor models before because it was so gradually introduced and it grew in floor space over time.
But the Ergo Premier is replacing all the Ergos out in the marketplace all basically in for the most part in one quarter.
And so that's a significant distribution effort and a significant floor model impact or -- it's not something that happens on a regular basis but it is something that is needed to happen and it is a real negative driver in the second quarter on the Tempur business.
The next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Joshua again.
Just a question on the Stearns &amp; Foster Monogram and I'm not sure if it is a fair question because you've only had Sealy for a while.
But that was a product that was developed to go head-to-head with Tempur when Sealy was a stand-alone.
I was just curious one if it's on the floor right now.
I think you mentioned it's going to be rolling out here in 2Q but wondering if it's out currently.
And second how you're positioning it considering it does go head-to-head with Tempur? It does have some distribution and it is rolling out right now but it’s already in some distribution.
As we said though first of all we have been operating 2 different companies for right up until 6 weeks ago.
But on the other hand I think another thing is important is part of reason that we -- very important point is that the reason that we acquired Sealy one very big component was strength of their brands and the Stearns &amp; Foster is a very very good brand.
And it appeals to certain types of consumers and its positioning as being a hand-made hand-crafted product with a long heritage is very valuable.
So just -- I think that as time goes by as I said in my prepared comments we're working on right now on refining our long-term plan.
But there's no question that all the product I mean all the brands will have a role to play.
And the question is going to be how we optimally leverage the brand positioning and technology and method of manufacture and there could well be some mixing and matching here.
So yes it was designed in a different world.
And yes whether we would have done it had we been working together I don't know.
But the concept of premium Stearns &amp; Foster brands using different technologies is not out of the question.
The next question comes from Joan Storms from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Previously you had given us some guidance or thoughts on expansion of your potential both in the U.S.
and overseas.
So I was wondering -- with the thought that you would continue to open new doors over time.
Will you be providing any communication on that with regards to the overall company or to both Tempur and Sealy? It seems that Sealy might have broader penetration just having a broader brand name and product out there.
Joan we definitely intend both in the U.S.
and internationally to grow distribution both for Tempur and for Sealy.
And in some places there will opportunities for -- where Tempur has an infrastructure to -- Sealy can leverage and vice versa.
But I anticipate going forward that what we will report will be the combined numbers.
That is again something we haven't yet fully worked out.
But I -- we will continue to focus on it.
It's going to an important thing but it will be a combined team.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time have for questions today.
I would now like to turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for joining us everybody today.
And we look forward to talking to you again in July when we host our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference for today.
Again thank you for participation.
You may all disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy International Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mark Rupe.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Sharda and thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company's most recently -- recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note regarding forward-looking statements and/or risk factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempursealy.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our performance in the second quarter discuss our growth initiatives including the progress of new products and advertising and then provide an update on the Sealy integration.
I'll then turn the call over to Dale who will provide details on the second quarter financial results and discuss our updated financial outlook.
The second quarter didn't turn out as we expected.
The steps we have taken to return Tempur North America to growth are appropriate but they are taking longer than we would like.
And as a result we're lowering our financial outlook for the full year.
Having said that we're pleased with the performance of the rest of our portfolio and the integration with Sealy is proceeding ahead of schedule.
In Tempur North America we faced several challenges that impacted our overall second quarter performance.
We experienced softer than expected demand for our older products and in particular didn't experience the seasonal lift in demand around the Fourth of July holiday.
In addition new products contributed less than we expected as rollouts were slower than planned.
Notably the TEMPUR-Choice rollout has been slower than we'd hoped due to initial startup delays that are now resolved.
In addition the transition to the new Ergo Premier adjustable base took longer than anticipated as retailers sold off existing floor models.
In short we had less sell-through opportunity given the later rollout timing.
But we're confident that the steps that we're taking to return to growth are appropriate and beginning to work.
We are committed to sustaining and growing the premium portion of our retail customers business by continued focus on product innovations that drive AUSP investment in advertising to drive consumer demand and store visits and improving how we serve our customers.
In the second quarter sales of products priced at $2 000 and above were positive for Tempur North America and we saw an overall AUSP increase.
Our Retail business particularly with our largest customers is improving.
Our advertising has been refreshed and we plan acceleration in advertising spend in the back half.
We continue to invest for the long term and the 2 areas that we believe will lead to long term success are product innovation and advertising.
Everywhere else we are very cost-focused to enable us to invest in these 2 strategic priorities.
Looking at the rest of our portfolio Sealy sales were in line with our expectations during the second quarter.
The rollout of the new Sealy Posturepedic offering is essentially complete.
Both the Posturepedic innerspring and the hybrid series which is constructed of half memory foam and half springs are performing well.
In addition we've seen continued momentum from the Optimum Collection.
Adjustable base sales and our joint venture with Comfort Revolution also contributed to the growth.
While Stearns &amp; Foster is down versus last year following the very successful launch in late 2011 we are pleased with its performance.
Sealy-branded value products are down year-over-year.
Tempur International sales were essentially flat on a constant currency basis.
Our Asia Pacific business continued to perform well with positive results in all of our key markets and in particular Korea and Japan.
Since establishing our Korean subsidiary in 2011 we have experienced solid growth and it has quickly become an important part of our international business.
While Japan has been part of the Tempur portfolio for many years we have seen it have significant growth recently from our company-owned stores.
The economy in Europe on the other hand has been challenging for us and the industry.
There have been pockets of strength but not enough to overcome the overall malaise.
However we believe that we've continued to take share in the major markets.
Now I'd like to discuss our critical growth initiatives related to our new products and our advertising.
Demand for our TEMPUR-Breeze products which were introduced last year continue to be high and are a perfect example of consumers' willingness to trade up for innovation.
We have added a top-of-the-line Cloud Luxe Breeze this quarter which has been positively received.
The introduction of TEMPUR-Choice in North America enables us to leverage our brand to enter a segment of the market previously not available to us.
With Choice we and the majority of our retail customers have a clear opportunity to take market share.
We've seen good performance so far from customers who've supported Choice with advertising and whose RSAs have been well-trained.
Initial feedback from end consumers is also positive.
However many of our customers have only just received it.
In the third quarter we plan to finish the rollout increase the amount of training and support the launch with Choice-specific national advertising.
We also completed the rollout of our Ergo Premier adjustable base.
The Ergo Premier priced at $1 999 replaced the $1 700 Advanced Ergo which had been introduced in 2008 and had grown placement to multiple slots on most retailers' floors.
The new Premier has advanced features including the ability to control it with a mobile app.
Clearly this product too contributes to retailer opportunity to drive AUSP.
Next week at the Vegas Bedding Show we'll be launching several new products across our brand portfolio notably from Tempur Stearns &amp; Foster and Optimum all of which are designed to improve retailers' average tickets.
To support these launches and our future product development efforts we have bolstered our talent by bringing in some excellent senior level product management capabilities in recent months and we will continue to invest in R&amp;D to leverage the combined technologies of our portfolio to deliver a stream of innovative products that will resonate with consumers and grow our retailers' business.
Our pipeline of new products is robust with the anticipation that 2014 will be another year of delivering significant innovation across our entire brand portfolio.
Now I'd like to address our advertising initiatives.
In early May we launched Tempur North America's new advertising campaign into a crowded advertising environment and we were optimistic that it would increase retailer foot traffic lead to improved Tempur-Pedic conversion and over time benefit our direct business.
After a review of the first 2 months' performance there are elements of the campaign that are doing very well.
The "You are how you sleep" ad is clearly making an emotional connection with our target consumers.
However we believe we need to run in conjunction with it an ad with a stronger rational message and a call to action.
As a result we're making adjustments including bringing back the highly successful Ask Me campaign.
Our plans include running Ask Me commercials tagged with a unique promotional event for Labor Day that our retail customers are excited about.
We're committed to accelerating our advertising investment in the back half and we'll also be making adjustments to our media mix to improve the overall effectiveness.
Also we're very pleased with the consumer reaction to our new Sealy ad campaign Life Before Your Eyes.
The integration with Sealy continues to progress well.
Cost synergies are being realized ahead of plan and we're more confident than ever that the combination provides significant competitive advantage.
We know that this early stage of the integration is critical to achieving the long-term potential of the deal and we are placing the appropriate level of focus on it.
We have now integrated most functions of the business including the management of sales and marketing.
We have integrated these areas earlier than we had originally projected but have done so very thoughtfully and in consultation with our retail customers.
Recently we conducted an employee survey across the organization and employee morale engagement and support for the combined company are very high.
When we announced the deal we expected to achieve $40 million in cost synergies by the third year.
We now expect to realize upwards of $18 million in cost synergies in 2013 and have good line of sight to achieve the $40 million in the second year.
We plan to provide a more detailed update on these synergies at our upcoming Investor Day.
In closing we remain confident in our company's long-term potential.
Our pace of innovation will remain vibrant and we're committed to brand marketing investments.
In addition to the very attractive cost synergies we expect to achieve in the next few years we expect to realize attractive upside from revenue synergies as a result of a broader product offering and access to more channels including international expansion.
At our Investor Day on September 10 we'll share our new long-term plan and provide details on how we are approaching our cost and revenue synergies.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the second quarter financial results and then our updated 2013 guidance.
For the second quarter results I will address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance for each segment and provide commentary on the key areas or items where there's a notable variance from the prior year.
As a reminder the company completed its acquisition of Sealy in March 2013 and results for 2012 do not include the Sealy results of operations.
Consolidated net sales for the second quarter was $660.6 million.
Tempur North America net sales were down 4.9% and Tempur International net sales were down 2.3%.
On a constant currency basis Tempur International sales were down 0.6%.
Sealy sales were $344.6 million.
By product bedding net sales for Tempur North America decreased 5.2% to $199.5 million on a unit decline of 11% principally driven by a year-over-year decline of Simplicity units.
Tempur International bedding net sales declined 6.1% to $73.9 million on a unit decline of 1%.
Sealy's bedding net sales were $325.1 million.
By channel Tempur North American retail net sales declined 2% and direct net sales declined 40%.
Tempur International direct sales increased 48% to $11.4 million driven by growth in company-owned stores and e-commerce.
Sealy's sales of $344.6 million during the second quarter were in line with our expectations.
Sealy's growth was driven by specialty products at premium price points the new Sealy Posturepedic offering and increased consolidated Comfort Revolution joint venture revenue.
Partial offsetting factors were lower demand for Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster products.
Second quarter gross margin was 38.6% and included an inventory step-up charge as well as a full quarter of depreciation related to the Sealy purchase price allocation or PPA.
As we stated on our last conference call there are 2 key points that investors need to consider when reviewing our consolidated gross margin.
One Sealy traditionally operates at a lower gross margin than Tempur North America and Tempur International.
And two Sealy historically recorded freight costs in SG&amp;A while Tempur segments have recorded it in COGS.
As a result by conforming to Tempur's accounting Sealy's historical gross margin would be lower.
In addition Sealy's overall gross margins are influenced as a result of the consolidation of the Comfort Revolution joint venture which tends to operate at a lower gross margin.
On a year-over-year basis second quarter gross margin declined to 38.6% from 50.7% primarily due to the following: The inclusion of Sealy; product mix; and higher new product introduction costs as we shipped a significant number of floor models.
These impacts were partially offset by improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution and lower sourcing costs.
On a sequential basis gross margin decreased to 38.6% from 48.3% as a result of the inclusion of Sealy for the full period product mix higher new product introduction costs.
These impacts were partially offset by improved efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution.
Consolidated advertising spend which includes both national and cooperative was $73.1 million or 11.1% of sales in the second quarter.
As Mark indicated we remain committed to building our advertising investment as the year progresses to reinvigorate consumer activity around the Tempur-Pedic brand as well as the other key brands in our portfolio.
All other operating expenses were $143 million or 21.6% of sales.
Consolidated operating income was $44 million or 6.7% of sales as compared to $47.5 million or 14.4% of sales in the second quarter of 2012.
Operating income included $11.9 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Excluding these costs the higher operating income reflects the inclusion of Sealy.
Interest expense was $35.7 million and included $8.7 million in prepayment premium fees related to the company's refinancing of its Term B loans under its senior secured credit facilities which was completed in May 2013.
The tax rate was 131%.
The tax rate for the second quarter reflects tax provision adjustments related to the repatriation of foreign earnings utilized in connection with the Sealy acquisition and the adjustments to PPA as well as nondeductible transaction expenses.
As a reminder the company was able to create a tax-efficient structure through the Sealy transaction which provides us the ability to utilize in excess of $1 billion of future foreign cash flow to be principally used to reduce debt.
The normalized rate for the quarter was 31.1% which was influenced by a shift in the geographic mix of our second quarter profits.
Second quarter GAAP earnings per share was a loss of $0.03 as compared to $0.45 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.36 in the second quarter of 2013.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
As shown on the balance sheet the primary changes are related to the acquisition and related accounting treatment.
Our total cash cycle on a year-over-year basis improved 3 days primarily related to improved payable days up 5 and inventory down 3 days offset partially by an increase in DSOs up 5 days.
During the quarter we had an operating cash use of $16.7 million primarily as a result of working capital prepayment premium fees and transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Capital expenditures were $13.7 million.
As it relates to our capital structure the company has consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.9 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.6x calculated on a combined basis in accordance with the company's senior secured facility.
A calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
In addition the company completed the repricing of its senior secured Term A facility.
Combined the Term A and Term B transactions are expected to reduce our annual cash interest costs by more than $13 million.
Now I'd like to address guidance.
As a reminder our guidance and related commentary reflects a full year of Tempur results but only Sealy results from March 18 2013.
Today the company lowered its outlook for full year 2000 (sic) [2013] net sales and earnings.
The company currently expects net sales to be in the range of $2 425 000 000 to $2 450 000 000 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $370 million to $385 million for the stub period.
On a trailing 12-month basis the adjusted EBITDA would be $31 million higher.
Adjusted EPS to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.40 including $0.14 per share of depreciation and amortization related to the Sealy purchase price allocation.
We're also providing the following additional full year 2013 guidance assumptions: Depreciation and amortization of approximately $90 million with an annualized run rate of approximately $100 million.
This includes PPA depreciation and amortization of $13 million in 2013 with an annualized run rate of approximately $17 million.
PPA depreciation is lower than previously communicated due to adjustments to the valuation of certain assets.
Interest expense of approximately $83 million excluding transaction-related charges with an annualized run rate of approximately $95 million.
Tax rate to be approximately 31% for the full year 31.5% for the balance of the year.
Share count to be approximately $61.6 million for the year and $61.7 million for the balance of the year.
Capital expenditures of approximately $60 million.
For Tempur North America our guidance assumes a continuation of the trends we experienced in the quarter.
As we indicated sales slowed toward the end of the second quarter and July has started off similarly slow.
For the second half of 2013 our projections are as follows: Tempur North America sales to be down 5% to 10%; Tempur International sales to increase low single-digits; and Sealy to grow mid single-digits.
In total this represents flat to 2% second half year-over-year growth for Tempur Sealy International.
It's important to note that our 2013 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS guidance does not factor in transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Sealy or interest expense costs on the financing transactions prior to the March 18 close or expenses incurred on the recent repricing financing transactions.
In considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequence of other risk factors we've identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to kick off diving a little bit more into what you saw in Tempur-Pedic North America.
Maybe first I could just ask about some of the dynamics in the quarter.
This is a big quarter in terms of new product launches.
What does the underlying sell-through rate look like when you're trying to adjust for the sell-in? That's right it was a big quarter for new product introductions.
And the big swing factors for Tempur North America were -- the 2 big product lines were Choice and the Premier the Ergo Premier.
And the -- it's frankly very early to tell.
So if I look at Choice and the places where it is rolled out the sell-through is sort of consistent with what we had expected.
And it builds as A the customers get more used to selling it and B it's supported by advertising.
It's in limited -- we have limited data but where it is it seems to be going quite well and consistent with what we expect.
But it is a new type of product to sell from most of the RSAs.
So the training is critical.
And one of the things that we're very committed to doing for all of the customers who have it is making sure we have a high level of training.
But it is something that will -- that we anticipate will build over time both because of training because customers will support with their own advertising but importantly because as of the beginning of August we're going to support it with national advertising.
So I would say on that front it was later to get to the floor than we would have liked but the trends so far are approximately what we'd expected.
On the Ergo bases the transition there required retailers to sell off their floor models.
So essentially what happened was the sell-in was almost a one-for-one with a sellout of existing floor models.
So that took time to go through.
And now it's largely -- we're well through it.
I won't say completely through it but well through it.
And there what we were expecting and our plans have always been that roughly speaking the attach rate would be the same as it was before but because of the increased price there would be a lift as a benefit of that.
And again it's early days but it still looks like that's about what we're getting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so just to be clear the Tempur North America in the first quarter though was down about 5%.
And going forward you're now modeling I believe a decline of 5% to 10%.
There won't be as much benefit to sales from sell-in.
Is that kind of the way to think about how you guys are looking at guidance for the back half of the year? The one thing I'd be cautious about is thinking about this sell-in.
The fundamental way we're looking at the trend is this the way we're looking at the projection is this is we're looking at the recent trends of Tempur sales and projecting that forward recognizing that we anticipate and are working toward a turn so that we move back into a growth mode.
For projection purposes we're using a continuation of the current trend.
But when you look at sell-in I would suggest that you'd be cautious and we certainly are as well as we do our analysis of not thinking of sell-in as incremental sales per se.
And what I mean by that is this.
If you take a as I said if you take an adjustable base if you sell -- if we sell a new floor model adjustable base one-for-one another one has to be sold to the consumer that would otherwise have bought a full-price one.
So in effect the sell-in is almost a wash.
And especially when we give a similar thing of a discount to the retailers to buy the new ones.
So for an adjustable base it's almost a one-for-one and it's a wash.
If you look at mattresses in general people who have taken Breeze -- sorry people who have taken Choice have added slots.
But roughly speaking we've estimated for the 2 new products they've added 1 new slot which means they have to sell off another existing product.
And given that we sell these products with a -- the floor models at a significant discount when you look at the cash value or the dollar value in terms of sales new product sell-ins are not net -- they're close to a wash in terms of incrementality.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's very helpful.
And then maybe just one point of clarification on the advertising.
Mark you mentioned a few refinements that you'd like to make specifically ahead of Labor Day I think it sounds like.
How quickly will we see those new commercials? Will you start running them before Labor Day or is that really when we should start looking for them? We'll have the new commercials the modified Ask Me commercials will be on air next week.
Our next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to focus on guidance if I could for the rest of the year.
Confused a bit.
And maybe Dale you could walk us through what the GAAP guidance is and then where the adjustments are both in the amortization and the add-backs how do we get there? Budd I don't have a GAAP guidance for you.
We're providing the pro forma guidance consistent with the -- for second quarter we gave you the GAAP results and then the adjustments to the GAAP results by essentially area and most of those adjustments are across the P&amp;L.
A significant portion for example PPA but that's not in our adjustments but just from an ongoing standpoint is in gross profit.
But the other areas transaction costs et cetera a lot of those are in G&amp;A.
Some would be in selling.
So I'm not sure exactly what to do to help you there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well are there -- do you see further adjustments coming into third and fourth quarter? These will be -- I would expect that there will be some small adjustments as we go through the year but the big adjustments are behind us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you say that there's $18 million worth of synergies this year.
How much have we had year-to-date so far? In second quarter we probably had $4 million or so of synergies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So $14 million in the second half? Yes.
It kind of builds on itself.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You were going to ship 70 000 new product SKUs I think in the second quarter if I recall what you said on the first quarter call.
Can you give us an update on how many you did ship and how many are left to ship? It was very -- I mean Budd I don't have the exact number but essentially we shipped essentially what we thought we were going to ship but we shipped them later than we thought we were going to ship them.
On the Tempur side they shipped a little bit later than we thought.
On the Sealy side they pretty much shipped on schedule.
On schedule if not ahead.
But they were planned for this quarter and they happened in this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I would take it that the bulk of them were Sealy SKUs given the price points.
Is that correct? Many of them were Sealy but there were a lot of the Ergo adjustables.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us maybe a run rate on Tempur for -- by month? You said that if fell off late in the quarter.
Can you give us an order of magnitude of how much maybe we saw in the June -- in June of the Tempur North American sales? I think that's where the bulk of the problem was right? Correct.
We were -- when we talked about the second quarter we expected Tempur North America to be mid single-digit growth.
Obviously we thought that that would -- Tempur North America would improve across the quarter as new product got out into the market as the new advertising started to hit.
Obviously we didn't see that improvement.
In fact as Mark mentioned things slowed down a little bit towards the end of the quarter as we really didn't have impact that we normally see around the Fourth of July holiday.
So that kind of affects pre Fourth of July and post Fourth of July.
So we've seen some softness in July as well post Fourth of July.
But what we have seen is what we use to build our guidance along with expecting things that we are doing as a business.
The thing that we are being cautious of is as Mark mentioned we're not trying to call the turn anymore.
So things that we are doing we expect the business to turn and start to grow again but we're not going to try to call the date of the turn.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well you've done that before.
I mean that was the way you handled guidance I think several years ago when we were going through the Great Recession if I recall.
Where you took the run rate at the end of the quarter and said that was your guidance.
So I understand that and I appreciate that.
So I'm not -- there's no criticism there.
But what it says to me is it looks like June was down probably down 10% if the first 2 months were up mid single-digits or maybe even a little better is that fair? No.
We never expect -- as I said we -- when we gave the guidance on the second quarter we expected the performance of the business to improve as the quarter progressed.
What we've tried to do with this guidance is take -- for the second quarter Tempur North America was down 5%.
So we're carrying that forward.
We saw a little bit of softness at the end of June and into early July so we're just trying to bracket what is a reasonable potential outcome.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I thought you said you had guidance like down 5% to 10%.
So gave yourself a little bit of run -- a little bit of leeway on that.
Final question for me is if I look at Sealy pro forma and I know we don't exactly have the same matching of periods but it looks like their business on a pro forma basis was up about 10%.
Is that fair on looking at it? I'd say ballpark 9% including Comfort Revolution joint venture.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on the guidance methodology Dale.
So the sales a year ago are you looking at year-over-year just to be clear? Because the sales in the second half of last year were down pretty substantially at Tempur North America and would suggest at least year-over-year a somewhat easier comparison going forward and yet you've got a steeper decline of 5% to 10% versus the 5% decline in Q2.
We're using the percentage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're using the percentage year-over-year as your guide to go forward and not some kind of sequential look? Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on advertising you mentioned an acceleration of -- I'm just curious is there any way to talk about what numbers around Tempur what numbers around Sealy what rate of acceleration? I assume that's a sequential comment not a year-over-year comment.
And is there any way to think about particularly Tempur-Pedic North American advertising when that goes into a positive year-over-year comparison on an ad spend basis? John what we're expecting is that the full year spend of Tempur North America which obviously is the bulk of the spending is going to be approximately the same as last year.
But the difference is last year the bulk of the spending was in the first half and there was very little in the second half.
And this year it's going to be that a greater proportion of the spending is in the second half than the first.
So the first half was down year-on-year.
Tempur North America's spending in the first half was down year-on-year because bear in mind last year we were spending with an expectation of a run rate of sales of a much different level.
But our spending in the second half is going to be up very substantially.
So we're seeing a spend increase in the second half of a substantial amount.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the new Ask Me is that -- that's already done.
I mean I guess there's just a slight tweak or some kind of update to the old program so it's quick and easy to do? Yes.
I mean I think -- I mean the plan is that we want to be sure that we have something on air that's good and proven and it has an advantage that we can -- it is designed and you'll remember this that it's quite easily modifiable to include other new products or promotions.
And that lends itself to what we need for Labor Day.
And so we'll get that on air right away and it's something that is proven and works well.
And we will -- we are continuing to develop different copy which we will decide when we see it and when we've evaluated it when we've measured it to transition from beyond Labor Day and beyond -- in the fourth quarter we would anticipate being ready with new copy.
But if we are splendid and if we are not we still have this Ask Me in the can.
And we will also run some Choice advertising which is developed specially for Choice.
And over the -- we anticipate other parts of the campaign "You are how you sleep" will continue to run in the second part of the second half i n the fourth quarter.
But for right now we're going to focus on Ask Me.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To build on John's question on ads.
If I look at the first half of last year Tempur-Pedic standalone you're seeing 12% 13% as a percentage of sales on ad.
Are we talking about that magnitude of spending or exactly what level? It's comparable -- I don't have -- let me just check the number but it is comparable.
And it's -- the spending in the second half is significantly higher than it was in the second half of last year.
So let me just see if I've got this here.
About 12%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 12%.
And that's Tempur Sealy combined correct? The revenue combined of the 2? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you talked about a September promotion on matched.
When will that be sort of launched to the channel? We're not going to -- I'd rather not talk about it in detail right now just given its -- just for competitive reasons.
But it has been communicated to our major retailers already.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we look at the amount of that spend how -- do you have a rough break of how much is going to be Tempur-Pedic or I guess Sealy brand-focused and how much is going to be product-focused? Even rough numbers would be fine.
I'm not going to get into too much detail but I think the one -- I mean as I've said the bulk of our advertising clearly is going to be behind Ask Me.
And Ask Me is a product -- is a brand and the way it's customized is brand and product.
So we can do -- it depends on how you count it but it's essentially both.
But it is -- largely it's going to be focused on brand.
We are going to have special -- what do you call it customized unique advertising for Choice which will run over Labor Day and afterwards but it will run before Labor Day.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Piper (sic) [Peter] Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> It's Peter Keith of course.
I was curious to more on the gross margin line.
You came in at 250 basis points lower than where you had originally guided in Q2.
I wasn't quite clear on the dynamic.
Was that certainly -- or just specifically attributed to the lower sales for the quarter and the deleverage of fixed costs? Or were there some other puts and takes that we should be aware of? Well Peter it's also a function of the mix of the revenue.
TPNA being a higher-margin business being where we were off Sealy coming in -- the Sealy brands coming in where we expected so that mixes you lower.
Also from a TPNA standpoint based on the timing and velocity of the floor models going out what we missed was the sell-through of them generating more business.
So you have a higher percentage of your revenue was floor models.
So it's really a mix factor as opposed to -- both from a segment where the revenue was coming from and then within TPNA its gross margin was off also because of the higher mix of floor models.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess related to the I guess gross margin for the year you reduced the PPA by $0.07.
You had said it was -- it reduced the valuation of certain assets.
So I guess I'm curious on what was reduced so quickly.
Well basically Peter all this is an estimate until it gets ultimately resolved and finalized and thrown in the system.
You're changing a value and a life on a fixed asset and at a very high level you're trying to estimate it.
And once it's thrown into the fixed asset system and adjustments are made it's all calculated.
So essentially there's a recognition that this stuff takes time which is why from an accounting rule standpoint you've got a year to sort it all out.
It tends to be a bit of a moving target until it's final.
It's possible that it could change a little bit again.
We think that we're pretty close to getting there but it's one of those things as you continue to work through these processes some things tweak around a little bit.
That's why the repatriation tax moved again.
As the valuations are fully vetted and fully analyzed things tend to move a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Just one other separate question.
I was curious on the success of the hybrid launch from Sealy and maybe some of the other hybrid beds out there.
Do you have a sense as those are rolling out that they actually may be taking a little bit of business from that Tempur North America mattress sales? I would say that first of all the Posturepedic hybrid is doing really quite well better than anticipated and well and it's a premium product within the Posturepedic range and we're all very pleased with how it's doing.
And it is clearly in the $1 000 to $2 000 area and it is the $1 000 to $2 000 area that has been collectively for want of a better word cannibalizing or taking away from the $2 000 plus area which is the Tempur-Pedic's normal bailiwick.
And so it does -- I think that there is a degree to which it is likely that it is contributing to the overall pressure on Tempur.
But frankly it's part of our family and I'm pleased to have a powerful brand like -- a powerful product like that in the group.
I think what we recognize is that Tempur's focus has to be on the $2 000 plus area and that the remainder of our portfolio including Posturepedic and Optimum is focused on this $1 000 to $2 000 area and that includes Stearns as well but it includes spring it includes memory foam products and it includes hybrids.
But just to be clear I mean I think that while it has taken away some of the research that we've done does say that although it takes away both from memory foam and from spring it's more toward the spring is where it's going to cannibalize from.
Our next question comes from the line of the Jessica Schoen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question on the revised synergy forecast for the higher forecast for this year and next is I was wondering if you could give a little bit of color on your philosophy around reinvesting those synergies? Well clearly the synergies were and we're talking here about the cost synergies were an important part of the logic for the acquisition of Sealy.
And what -- the way we think about it from using your word a philosophical point of view here is that it gives us a war chest to invest in building the brand of Tempur and the rest of the portfolio.
So as we -- as the world has evolved as there are now multiple -- Tempur is now the leading visco-elastic uniplane [ph] in this market it gives us effectively ammunition to continue to invest.
So we -- our first -- clearly we're going to drive profits and clearly we're going to drive growth at the top line.
But we believe that these synergies are something that can be powerfully utilized to maintain a unique positioning in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then as we think about gross margin for the back half of the year is there any way to quantify the impact from the higher level of floor models that might not repeat in the third and fourth quarter as we try to forecast those levels? Well one thing is that you must remember that Choice is still not fully rolled out and there will be new products that we'll be announcing next week in Vegas which also will roll out.
So it will be diminished.
I don't know if we have an exact number Dale? Yes.
No Jessica I would say on the April call in our guidance then we said that we thought in the back half of the year after we got through the bulk of the floor model issues that we would have gross profit company-wide in the $43 million to $44 million range.
I would say now based on the mixed impacts that I was talking about before less Tempur business so the mix of Sealy is a little bit higher also just the overall things like volume leverage et cetera more Comfort Revolutions as Comfort Revolutions is performing well we're now looking for gross profit on the overall business to be in the low 40s as opposed to $43 million $44 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow.
Just a follow-up on the synergies.
I thought you had mentioned that -- I know in the past you had talked about 3 different buckets that you were focusing on but it seems like in this call you mentioned also sales and marketing as a new bucket.
Did I hear that correctly? No not as a synergy.
As a use of the savings.
The way I would think about it is fundamentally the buckets of savings are going to come from the purchasing power and the strength that we have in manufacturing distribution and so forth.
Obviously there are some G&amp;A savings that we'll anticipate getting.
But where we see using those savings is to invest in marketing.
I mean not exclusively not entirely it's not a one-for-one but what it does is it makes the combined entity of Tempur and Sealy by having us be able to run more efficiently thanks to the combination to have effectively the ability to invest some of that back in marketing and particularly advertising.
I see.
Okay.
And then in terms of the guidance could you talk a little bit about what's baked into your guidance for Tempur North America in terms of volume and price and what you expect there? From a volume and price standpoint we -- in the second quarter as I mentioned the volume was down more than the revenue was down and that was really a function of Simplicity.
And so on a go-forward basis that will still be a factor.
We don't expect Simplicity to do a lot.
And so I would think that we would see positive ASP in Tempur North America particularly now that we've gotten through the bulk of the floor model rollout.
Now there's still more floor models to go on Choice but we're about 60% rolled out there as of the end of June.
And we're -- for the most part we're rolled out on Premier which also affects that.
So in the back half we would expect to see some ASP benefit versus volume.
Okay.
And then just the last one for me.
On the overseas or international advertising strategy I've noticed the past 2 quarters your company-owned stores and e-commerce has increased a lot.
Have you changed your strategy internationally; are you doing something different? We haven't changed the strategy.
For some time we've said -- the 2 things that you referred to the advertising and the company-owned direct sales both have been for some time key focus areas.
What we're seeing is in Europe right now there's just such a -- as I'm sure you know very well there's a malaise there.
So the return on investment on advertising is less promising there whereas direct stores has actually work quite well even in this time.
So we're continuing to see the benefit of our direct sales.
But the big place where that's paid dividends -- well the greatest amount of dividends in the most recent period has been in Japan.
So they're both important.
They both continue to be important and they both will be important for as far as we can see.
Right this minute in Europe given the economic environment we're finding that advertising investment is not as productive as it is either in other parts of the world and also in terms as much as using direct sales as a method of getting to consumers.
Okay.
And you mentioned a few pockets of strength.
Internationally you called out Korea Japan.
Were there any pockets of strength in Europe as well? Well there were.
There's France.
France is a pocket of strength.
But I mean quite honestly it bubbles.
I mean it's not like it's -- there and some of the Nordic countries.
But generally it's pretty -- in Europe the malaise is pretty widespread.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for you.
The Choice rollout how many doors do you expect that bed to ultimately get into in terms of your overall North America retailer base? The majority of them.
We expect the majority of our retailers to carry it but we haven't given an exact number.
You're asking about Choice? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
Yes.
I mean the majority the majority but we just haven't -- we're not giving an exact number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just secondly I'm looking at your sales guidance.
Obviously it's down $50 million to $75 million or so from where it previously was and I heard you guys talking about the issues there.
I mean a lot of those sound like Tempur-specific issues but are there other industry issues? I mean are you guys seeing a slowdown or a lack of a lift or tailwind if you will from housing for example that's partly to blame for that? The -- I don't want to get -- I'm only [indiscernible] justifications but I will say that what I am hearing from speaking to customers across the country is that there is a degree of weakness in the industry that we are -- that is certainly contributing to our slow performance in Tempur North America.
I mean there is a degree of...
Traffic.
Traffic.
There's a general concern about lack of traffic.
Now that's a commonly said thing.
Nobody ever thinks they have enough traffic.
But I do believe that there is a degree of that.
And moreover there is a degree to which it's becoming more spiky around the promotional periods too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one if I could.
The PPA's at $0.14 for this year.
What do you expect that to be for next year? I'm sorry? PPA.
Oh PPA? Research Division</strong> Yes.
At $0.17 that would translate to roughly about $0.20.
Research Division</strong> About $0.20 for next year? We'll just check that.
Let's just check that and we'll get back to you.
Our next question comes from the line of Carew [ph] Martisan [ph] with Deutsche Bank.
When you guys talk about integrating most of your sales and marketing and consulting with the retailers I mean what exactly have you guys integrated? I mean are these the sales force that are actually knocking on the doors or is this more of a high-level back office type function? Yes.
I mean the answer is it's -- what it absolutely isn't is a smashing together of the 2 organizations.
In fact to a large extent most of the people who are in both of the organizations are continuing to do the same job.
What we've done though is this is for the largest of our customers we have combined the teams who support the head office who support the chief buyers and the owners of the big retail stores so that they have a one face to the customer so that they can -- we can coordinate across the whole Tempur-Pedic portfolio and work to optimize everything from deliveries to promotional schedules to everything else done at one point with a central coordinator.
However that individual will have a person who -- will have a representative there will be 2 representatives one from Tempur one from Sealy because we want to maintain that expertise of the brands and the special -- all of the components of the brands.
So there will be a single face to our biggest customers.
But to the people who are calling on the stores there will still -- we will have as we have in both companies an East and a West leadership and then organizations regional managers below that.
But there will be Tempur and Sealy people calling on the stores.
So that those the people who are calling on the stores will remain specialists in their areas.
They will be coordinating with their colleagues but they'll be remaining specialists in their area.
Okay.
And when we look at the slower-than-expected rollout on TEMPUR-Choice ultimately my sense here is that it is still an incremental product.
Are you getting those slots on the floor space or are you feeling that you need to replace an existing Tempur or an existing Sealy product on that front? As I've said it's halfway through the rollout.
But where our expectations are is in general we are getting incremental slots but roughly speaking for the 2 products we're getting an incremental slot.
And what is less of a tradeoff than it's just that customers are continually evaluating which products have gotten turns to justify that position.
And so we're seeing that it's essentially a two-for-one give or take.
All right.
And just in terms -- lastly in terms of the rollout costs.
Certainly this is a rollout that you guys do every year.
I mean do you feel that when you look at the rollout and the complexity of the product that you've put out the rollout costs for the whole year will be greater than prior years or would this be kind of in average on average with what your expenses have been in prior years? Well I mean I think...
Forgive me just one comment and then you can make -- I think the thing is -- I think from a point of view of a rollout this is a more complicated product and so on.
But I think when you look at it over a whole year we're going to say it's about comparable to a normal rollout.
It's going to be more or less but it's going to be comparable.
The thing that is important to note though is that we are now in a world and we have been now for 18 months where new product rollouts are part of our DNA.
That's what we're going to -- that's the way that we're going to need to compete more and more going forward.
And so it's like the rest of the industry but it's an important thing that we're getting it's more and more part of our DNA.
And I was just going to add if you're looking just at Choice for the balance -- for the full year the product rollout costs this year may not be different than what they were last year a little bit more concentrated.
The thing that was a little bit of an anomaly this year and made product rollout costs higher this year for Tempur was the Ergo Premier.
As Mark mentioned in his prepared comments it replaced a product that was introduced in 2008 and built distribution over a number of years where we're replacing all of those in one shot.
So the Ergo Premier is a little bit of an unusual expenditure this year on the Tempur side.
Now for the Sealy brands Posturepedic is a big rollout for Sealy and also very concentrated.
But over the last year or so they did Stearns &amp; Foster they did the Sealy brand.
So there's a continuous stream of rollout.
Sometimes in a given year it's more concentrated than possibly another year depending on what exactly is being rolled out.
But on a continuous basis for the most part the rollout costs should be in the same neighborhood.
Our next question comes from the line of Joan Storms with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could be -- there was a couple of questions on the call about sort of the synergies and Mark mentioned sort of some of those buckets.
Can you give us some more specific examples or maybe quantification just as an example like maybe combined back operations and finance and whatever area and that's going to save you x million dollars and same thing with purchasing the volume purchasing.
Can you be a little bit more specific there so that we can see some of the progress that you're making? Yes here's what I would suggest Joan.
We're not really prepared to get into that level of detail on this call but at the Investor Day on September 10 we'll commit to give you a little bit more color in terms of the areas of the synergies and some ballparks in terms of the savings that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify on the second half gross margin you originally had been at $43 million to $44 million and now you're saying low 40s.
So does that mean like $41 million or $42 million or how do we get to these numbers? Yes ballpark.
Our final question comes from the line of Joe Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> It's Jon of course.
I just have a couple of quick questions.
The -- if you'd be willing to comment I don't know if you can Sealy's net sales for the second quarter I think you called out at $345 million.
Would you provide the EBIT or operating income for Sealy in the second quarter? It'll will be in the Q.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It will come out in Q.
I guess the other question I had was on the advertising spending.
I know you commented on it Dale I may have missed it.
The $73 million in the quarter what did that include? I mean does that include co-op? And I think you indicated that that will build through the year.
Will that build as a percentage of sales and how should we think about that? Yes.
The $73 million is global consolidated including co-op the portion of co-op that is included in advertising.
There is a portion of co-op that is treated as a reduction of sales also.
So that's TPNA that's international that's Sealy.
We do expect the advertising to build as the year goes on.
Most of that build would be coming on the Tempur side Tempur North America side.
Research Division</strong> And as a percent and as dollars? Yes on both a dollar spend and a percent most of the build that we'll see in the balance of the year is Tempur North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last one.
I think when you mentioned the rollout of Choice being somewhat slower than planned I think you mentioned some startup issues.
I guess I just was looking for some more clarity there.
Was that production startup issues? Was it anything else? And have those been resolved at this point? They have been resolved.
I mean it was -- the thing is it's a more complicated product because it relies on third-party suppliers for components of it.
It relies on quality checks that we have to do coming in and then going out as a completed product.
And candidly we were learning a little bit how to do that.
I'm quite pleased frankly how we're doing it now.
It took a little longer to get going in the way that we would have liked.
But it was that sort of -- those sorts of issues.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mark Sarvary for any further remarks.
Thank you very much.
Thank you everybody for joining us.
We look forward to talking with you all again on September 10 when we host our Investor Day in New York City.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
And everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy International Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference call Mr.
Mark Rupe.
You may begin sir.
Thanks Kevin.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements include the company's expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the day on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempursealy.com and also filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our performance in the third quarter and then discuss our 4 key strategic growth initiatives.
I'll then turn the call over to Dale who will provide details on the third quarter financial results and discuss our financial outlook.
Overall our third quarter was in line with our expectations.
The steps we have taken to improve Tempur North America's performance showed progress during the third quarter and led to a slight sales increase.
Our Sealy business also showed growth during the quarter.
However Tempur International results were slightly below our plan due to continued weakness in Europe.
In total our third quarter sales were $735.5 million.
Adjusted EPS were $0.73.
Tempur North America entered the third quarter with sales weakness.
We had expected sales to decline 5% to 10% in the second half of 2013 versus last year.
As is evident with our third quarter sales increase of 0.6% sales trends improved and were positive for the balance of the period.
The commitment to investing in our strategic growth initiatives is beginning to produce results.
Sales in our retail channel increased 2.4% with sales growth across our customer base.
Sales of products priced at $2 000 and above grew and more than offset a decline in products priced below $2 000 resulting in an overall AUSP increase.
Our marketing efforts were also successful in the third quarter.
Our unique Labor Day holiday promotional event broke through the platter and captured the attention of retailers and interest of consumers.
We supported the event with increased advertising and greater frequency of ads tagged for the promotion.
While we are pleased with the improved performance in Tempur North America our efforts to restore sustainable growth are not complete and in a minute I will talk about the number of steps we are taking in the fourth quarter and in 2014 to build on this initial success.
Turning to Sealy.
Sales grew during the third quarter.
While growth was slightly below our expectations it was up against a very tough comparison from the prior year.
We completed the rollout of the new Posturepedic offering and continue to see very strong demand across the line both innerspring and hybrid.
Increased consolidated sales from our joint venture with Comfort Revolution also contributed to growth.
Comfort Revolution is growing very rapidly and is benefiting from expanded distribution.
Sealy also experienced strong demand in Canada with third quarter sales coming in just shy of an all-time high for the third quarter.
In addition Sealy's other international markets grew during the quarter including South America and Mexico.
Both Optimum and Stearns &amp; Foster were down versus last year as they lapped prior year's successful launches.
Both remain important parts of our business and we're excited about their potential and their new product pipelines.
Tempur International sales were down approximately 3% on a constant currency basis and were slightly below our expectations.
Tempur International's performance is particularly important to our overall consolidated results given that it has much higher margins than the remainder of our business.
Our Asia Pacific business continued to perform well with good results in Korea Australia and China and our Latin American business also showed significant growth off a small base.
The economy in Europe on the other hand continues to be very challenging.
Most of the major European markets were negative during the quarter for us and for the industry.
Now I'd like to discuss our strategic growth initiatives.
My comments will include both our near-term initiatives and the longer-term initiatives supporting our 2016 growth targets.
We are the world's largest bedding provider and the only provider with global scale.
We believe our future growth potential is significant in our existing markets and through expansion into new markets.
At our September 2013 Investor Day we introduced new 3-year growth targets and discussed the strategic initiatives we would implement to achieve them.
The foundation of our strategy is the commitment to investing in 4 key areas of our business.
These areas are: product innovation marketing new market expansion and our supply chain which we are striving to make easier to do business with.
We will fund these investments with a portion of the cost synergies realized from the Sealy acquisition and our annual cost productivity programs as well as through overall growth in the business.
The first strategic initiative as I said is product innovation and we will continue to invest in R&amp;D to leverage the combined technologies of our comprehensive portfolio of products to deliver a stream of innovative products.
Our goal is to provide consumers the best bed and the best sleep of their life and to provide our retailers a complete and optimal offering across brands products and prices to drive their growth.
Demand for the TEMPUR-Breeze product line which was introduced this time last year continues to be very high and is a perfect example of consumer's willingness to trade up for innovation.
The success of Breeze continues to exceed our expectations and is now one of the top sellers within our portfolio.
The Ergo Premier Posturepedic hybrid line and TEMPUR-Choice are other examples of our ability to drive higher AUSPs with new technology.
We continue to roll out TEMPUR-Choice in North America during the third quarter and now expect to finish the rollout by the end of the year.
With Choice our retail customers have a clear opportunity to gain market share and we know that building consumer awareness is going to be key to the success of this product.
In early October we began airing a new Choice spot based on the Ask Me campaign and we will continue to invest to support this product line.
During the past 12 months we have accelerated the pace of innovation with products that feature new technology and we anticipate that this rate of innovation will continue.
We are planning several significant and exciting product launches for 2014 including new innovation across our entire brand portfolio.
At the recent High Point Furniture Market we showcased our entire brand portfolio together for the first time ever.
Both Tempur-Pedic and Sealy product lines were featured in our Trinity campus showroom.
Here we also previewed several of our planned 2014 product introductions and we're very pleased with the customer reaction.
You will begin to see initial closeout activities for some of our products prior to year end to make way for new product introductions.
As you might expect we're not prepared to provide specific details on these new products tonight for obvious competitive reasons.
The second strategic initiative is marketing.
A key component of our 3-year plan is significantly increasing our advertising investment to increase consumer awareness preference and loyalty for each of our key brands most notably for Tempur-Pedic.
During the third quarter we increased our advertising in Tempur North America by 18% versus last year and 40% versus the second quarter of 2013.
We went back to Ask Me television ads during the period and also adjusted the media mix to improve frequency.
We will also invest in in-store marketing and direct sales to maximize our sales opportunity driven from national brands and retailer advertising.
The third strategic initiative is new market expansion.
As we said in our Investor Day presentation our international opportunity is significant.
Over time we expect to realize over $300 million in revenue synergies from our international markets.
We're making progress on several of these opportunities and we'll speak in more detail about them in 2014.
Our fourth strategic initiative is our commitment to building a world-class supply chain that is easier to do business with.
Our goal is to significantly improve efficiencies related to purchasing and deliveries as well as inventory management to drive sales growth for our retail customers.
We're making significant progress on several initiatives as it relates to this area of focus and we'll be in a position to speak more openly about them also in 2014.
Before handing the call over to Dale I want to make 2 closing points.
First although we have seen some progress in Tempur North America demand remains volatile week-to-week and there's an overall level of uncertainty in the market.
As a result there's a certain degree of caution in our outlook.
With that said my second point is that we remain very confident in our company's long-term potential.
Our pace of innovation will remain vibrant and we are committed to brand marketing investments.
In addition to the attractive cost synergies we expect to achieve we will realize upside from revenue synergies as a result of a broader product offering access to more channels and international expansion.
With that I will now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the third quarter financial results and then discuss our financial outlook.
I'll address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance for each segment and provide commentary on the key areas or items where there's notable variance from the prior year.
As a reminder the company completed its acquisition of Sealy in March 2013 and results for 2012 do not include the Sealy results of operations.
Consolidated net sales for the third quarter were $735.5 million.
Tempur North America net sales were up slightly and Tempur International net sales were down 3.6%.
On a constant currency basis Tempur International sales were down 3.1%.
Sealy sales were $389.9 million.
By product bedding net sales for Tempur North America increased 0.2% to $220.6 million on a unit decline of 4%.
Tempur International bedding net sales declined 4.7% to $76.5 million on a unit decline of 7%.
Sealy's bedding net sales were $365.2 million.
By channel Tempur North America retail net sales increased 2.4% and direct net sales declined 30.5%.
Tempur International retail net sales decreased 6.5% and direct sales increased 20% to $12.5 million driven by growth in company-owned stores and e-commerce.
Third quarter gross margin was 40.6%.
As we stated on previous conference calls inclusion of Sealy has altered the consolidated gross margin profile of the business.
On a year-over-year basis third quarter gross margin declined to 40.6% from 49.2% primarily due to the inclusion of Sealy and product mix.
These impacts were partially offset by lower sourcing costs.
On a sequential basis gross margin increased to 40.6% from 38.6% primarily due to the lack of inventory revaluation charge in the third quarter and lower new product launch costs.
These were partially offset by rework costs associated with our new TEMPUR-Up adjustable base of approximately $3 million.
Consolidated advertising spend which includes both national and cooperative was $88.4 million or 12% of sales from the third quarter.
Tempur North America advertising spend increased 18% versus last year.
As Mark indicated we remain committed to our advertising investment to reinvigorate consumer activity around the Tempur-Pedic brand as well as the other key brands in our portfolio.
Consolidated operating income was $81.2 million as compared to $63.4 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2013 included $8.5 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2012 included $3.6 million of transaction costs related to the Sealy acquisition as well as a benefit of $8 million related to an adjustment to long-term incentive stock compensation.
Interest expense was $24.6 million and included $0.7 million in interest fees related to the company's refinancing of its Term A loans under its senior secured credit facilities which was completed in July of 2013.
The tax rate was 27.8%.
The tax rate for the third quarter reflects geographic mix and certain nonrecurring items.
The normalized tax rate was 30.4%.
Third quarter GAAP earnings per share was $0.65 as compared to a loss of $0.03 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
The 2012 loss reflects tax charges related to the Sealy acquisition.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.73 in the quarter as compared to adjusted EPS of $0.70 in the prior year period.
Next I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
As shown on the balance sheet the primary changes are related to the acquisition and related accounting treatment.
During the quarter we had operating cash flow of $116 million primarily as a result of working capital and improved net income related to performance and less Sealy acquisition-related transaction and integration costs.
Capital expenditures were $9 million.
We've begun to benefit from our tax efficient structure created through the Sealy acquisition.
Free cash flow generated during this quarter was $107 million which enabled us to reduce our debt by $84 million during the third quarter.
Our cash position was $126.6 million at the end of the quarter.
It enabled us to further reduce our debt by $36 million during the month of October.
As a result our leverage has improved.
The company has consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.8 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.3x calculated on a combined basis and in accordance with the company's senior secured facility.
This is an improvement from 4.6x as of the end of the second quarter.
The calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
Now I'd like to address guidance.
As a reminder our guidance and related commentary reflects a full year of Tempur results but only Sealy results from March 18 2013.
Today the company confirmed its financial guidance for 2013.
The company currently expects net sales to be in the range of $2 425 000 000 to $2 450 000 000 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $370 million to $385 million and adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.40 including $0.14 per share of depreciation and amortization related to the Sealy purchase price allocation or PPA.
It's important to note that while our full year financial guidance is unchanged the profile has changed.
We currently expect our full year 2013 net sales to be towards the upper end of the guidance range.
In addition we currently expect our full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS to be closer to the midpoint of their respective guidance ranges.
The principal driver of this variance is unfavorable mix.
We're also providing the following additional full year 2013 guidance assumptions: depreciation and amortization of approximately $90 million with an annualized run rate of approximately $100 million; this includes PPA depreciation and amortization of $13 million in 2013 with an annualized run rate of approximately $17 million; interest expense of approximately $83 million excluding transaction-related charges with an annualized run rate of approximately $95 million; the tax rate to be approximately 31% for the full year and 31.5% for the balance of the year; share count to be approximately 61.6 million shares for the year; capital expenditures of approximately $50 million.
It's important to note that our 2013 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS guidance does not factor in transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Sealy or interest expense costs on the financing transactions prior to the March 18 close or expenses incurred on the recent repricing and financing transactions.
In considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequence of other risk factors we have identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good to see the sales growth certainly in North America.
I guess my question Dale for you is I just want to make sure that Tempur North America gross margin can you give a comparison to that year-over-year? Sure.
One second Budd.
Ask your second question and I'll give that back to you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is kind of looking at Sealy pro forma for the remainder of the fourth quarter.
I remember last year they had an extra week and the months change so I'm trying to understand what the comparison is if we looked at it pro forma on a year -- or for Sealy in that 3 months I guess October November December.
Yes.
For the -- our outlook for the business let me just answer the next question that's related to that.
For the fourth quarter we would expect Tempur North America to be flat to slightly up.
They were slightly up in the third quarter 0.6%.
So we look for TPNA to be 0 to low single digits growth.
Tempur International we're currently expecting to be negative low single-digit growth which would imply Sealy being roughly about a mid-single-digit growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what is -- against what? I don't think we have those numbers for the 3 months.
That's the -- we don't have a pro forma.
Yes.
Unfortunately Budd under SEC rules we can't provide really comparable numbers because they were not ours.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
It's just hard to know how to compare against it.
I guess the last 2 quick questions you give me the gross margin answer.
AUSP I know Mark said above $2 000 was positive.
Can you kind of parse that between $2 000 and $3 000 and above $3 000? I'm not going to break it down to that level Budd but I will say that the AUSP was up.
It was largely driven by some of the products like Breeze for example which we're selling very well which is a high -- above $3 000 but not the very highest part of the portfolio.
So it was driven by the above-medium part of the $2 000 to $3 000 -- the $2 000 above area.
We don't have a split by specific groups within that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dale do you have that gross margin issue? And maybe if you can't give us the Sealy comparison number maybe you can give us the Sealy expectation number a dollar number.
Sealy number on...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sales? Of sales? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
What you expect in guidance if you can't give us the comparison to do the percentage math on.
For sales for the fourth quarter we would be looking for Sealy to be in the low 300s.
Sealy has a higher -- particularly with their calendar shift has a higher seasonality than the Tempur business traditionally has.
On your other question TPNA in the third quarter of 2012 was a gross margin of 43.6% and on this year it was just slightly below that.
And TEMPUR-Up which I mentioned was a negative driver on a sequential basis from Q2 to Q3.
Obviously it's a TPNA issue.
So that was $3 million of negative gross margin on that and it's going to cost us another $1 million to $2 million in the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To get that -- to get whatever the issue was resolved? Yes.
Well what we -- obviously what we booked in the third quarter was all the rework costs and -- but there are certain costs that you can't accrue upfront until it's -- we're incurring some expediting costs to get the new pieces that we need as we've fixed it.
But we've got to go back and fix all the inventory that we had prebuilt and get it ready to get shipped again.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When will the Q be filed so we could get all the segment operating numbers? Friday.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to just follow up on the advertising comments.
There were obviously a couple of big changes that you made in the quarter in terms of going back to the Ask Me campaign and greatly increasing the advertising dollars after it having been an area of savings for you in the past year.
Could you maybe just comment on what kind of response you're seeing to this change in advertising and how much that specifically may have helped the business in the quarter? Well as you know it's hard to exactly parse these things but our feeling is positive about it.
We feel that it has contributed.
I mean there's no doubt that our expectations for Tempur North America 3 months ago were lower than they turned out to be and the advertising clearly had something to do with that.
So on a kind of fundamental level we attribute our -- some of the improvement in our performance directly to that advertising.
We can look at other things that are kind of indicators.
Visits to the website for example are up double digits.
The dealer locator -- people going to the dealer locator on the website is also up double digits.
So there are some indicators of it.
It's really hard to say "Exactly this much came from the advertising " but we feel good about it.
And we feel good -- we're advertising TEMPUR-Choice now and that too seems to be helping.
So as far as I can tell and you know how imprecise a science this is this is going appropriately.
And what we said before and we reiterate now is we -- in the first part of this year we were not advertising sufficiently.
We recognize that and we're taking steps to address that and we will address it for this quarter but also going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And now if I could just follow up on Tempur North America and the trends that you're seeing when we had the earnings call back in July.
I believe the 4th of July holiday had not performed up to your expectations.
It seems like there was a notable acceleration in trends.
The consumer data points over the last 6 weeks or so have been pretty spotty.
Could you maybe give us a little bit more color on how things have played out and how confident you feel in Tempur North America growing in the fourth quarter? We're seeing very modest growth if any growth.
But I mean what we're saying is -- what's implied in our guidance is essentially flat very flat but on the other hand not the minus 5 to minus 10 that we had believed when we last spoke.
And I would say that what happened is this is that July 4 was -- as we said we were disappointed with the July 4 promotion and July as a whole was disappointing.
Labor Day and August was good.
We were quite pleased with that and we saw a good response.
You'll remember that we had a good promotion that was quite effective at that time and that worked well.
And then September moderated somewhat but still better than the beginning of the quarter.
So what I think is the key though which is implied in your question is there is -- you used the word spotty I use volatile.
It's really quite intriguing how the market is -- bounces quite a lot from literally week-to-week.
So we're -- we feel like we're in a better place from TEMPUR North America position than we thought we were in July but there continues to be volatility.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I wanted to go back to the ad spend you mentioned in the third quarter $88 million and obviously that number does bounce around a little bit from a seasonal perspective.
So what would we expect I guess on an overall level in terms of advertising spending in 4Q? Joe this is Dale.
In the third quarter our consolidated advertising spend was right around 12%.
We would expect it also to be right around 12% in the fourth quarter.
TPNA in the third quarter was about 13%; International just slightly under 10%; the Sealy was right about 12% and that's more cooperative in nature but some national advertising there.
And -- but from an overall company standpoint we expect the ad spend rate to be about the same in the fourth quarter as it was in the third quarter as a percentage of revenue.
Slight -- fourth quarter being seasonally weaker we would expect maybe a little bit lower total spend but as a percentage of revenue the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just in terms of Mark earlier your comments about July 4 being disappointing.
Is that just from a Tempur-Pedic perspective or are you seeing a shift in spending amongst consumers away from sort of holiday spending in general? I don't think that's what it is.
In fact I think that we continue to see consumers who spend at holiday periods and that's something as an industry we're over time going to have to try and mitigate.
But that is -- that -- I don't think that fundamental trend has changed.
I think that the July 4 holiday was not good for the industry but it was not particularly -- it was particularly not good for us.
And -- so I don't think it's anything about holidays I think it was about that holiday for the industry and I think particularly for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one last one in terms of Simplicity.
Have we seen the worst now of these Simplicity year-over-year declines in 3Q? As we said our focus is on the $2 000 and above area for Tempur North America and that will continue to be the case.
The Simplicity promotion that we ran in Labor Day was actually quite successful.
And Simplicity still sells quite well.
It's not going to be a focus area for us for growth going forward but -- so I don't see it kind of running -- I suppose the answer to your question in simple terms is I imagine it will continue to diminish as a proportion of our total sales over time but I imagine it will still be here.
Yes.
Second quarter was the worst compared Joe and it gets a little bit easier.
Third quarter was down but the compares get a little bit easier.
Our next question comes from Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Just a little bit more on the quarter.
Did you guys witness a drop-off in the last 2 weeks of September? I know some other consumer categories like appliances witnessed that.
Just was unsure if you saw something similar.
As I said the Labor Day and the August period was better than the latter part of the quarter.
And we heard and we read the same thing that we saw some weakness in the fall weaker trends in the latter part of September like the rest of the industry.
Okay.
And then on the gross margin there's a lot of moving parts I know given the merger and all the product rollouts this year.
Could you discuss gross margin puts and takes for 4Q here things that we might keep in mind when modeling the fourth quarter? Yes.
From a modeling standpoint I would have fourth quarter gross margin to be fairly similar to the third quarter.
The real key drivers for us is the mix change.
TPNA obviously doing better than what we thought before.
But as I mentioned there is still some ongoing TEMPUR-Up extra cost in the fourth quarter than -- in addition to what we had in the third quarter.
Tempur International being much below our expectations when we set the guidance as a real negative driver for gross margin.
But the growth of TEMPUR North America is a positive.
The Tempur International being down because that's our highest margin business is negative.
And a little bit additional cleanup on TEMPUR-Up will also give us a little bit of pressure there.
But overall quarter-to-quarter we'd expect somewhat similar results on a gross margin standpoint.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one last one for me.
On the TEMPUR-Choice you had mentioned you started a national Ask Me campaign around that in October.
Are you following that up also with RSA training or anything to get the RSAs more involved in the selling process? Yes we are.
And you're right to say that -- TEMPUR-Choice is a product that when -- with an RSA who's confident and well-trained at selling it is a product that sells well and it has very high consumer satisfaction.
We know that the 2 keys to making it achieve its full potential is one getting awareness up so people come into the store knowing about it and asking for it and the other is making sure that the RSAs are well-prepared and trained to selling it.
And that is a big focus for our sales force across the board.
It's one of the big initiatives to make sure that we put that at the of top of the list of things to do for RSAs across the country and that is a big focus.
Does that training consist of having the sales force get out and visit all your retail stores or is it more point-to-sale materials and videos and things like that? It includes materials but it -- and it includes training in classrooms but it very much include everybody -- all the people who are calling on the stores up and down the country are training the people in the stores.
Our next question comes from William Reuter with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to take a step back and talk a little bit about marketing.
When you talk about these 4 growth initiatives going forward does that mean that marketing as a percentage of sales should go up as we think about '14 and '15? Or are you going to kind of look at the response? What's your plan there? We're not going to give detailed guidance kind of at that level but we do -- we've said and it's important to understand that we will continue to increase advertising.
That is what we will do.
I've said before that using a percentage as a basis for calculating what's the optimal amount to spend has always struck me as rather silly.
You're talking about awareness and driving awareness.
But right now we know we're not spending enough we want to spend more.
So we will continue to spend more across our portfolio particularly focused on Tempur.
The exact ratios I'm not -- I don't know but -- at this minute.
But we are going to continue to invest in marketing and as the company grows I don't want to tie ourselves to a percentage because I've always felt that's a bit silly.
On the other hand at the moment standing here today I don't believe we're spending the optimal amount and we will continue to spend more going forward.
The other thing that we're going to do is looking at ways of improving the effectiveness of our advertising.
And that's something that both as a combination -- the fact that we are now a combined entity gives us kind of a greater clout in the market.
But also we know that there are opportunities for us to improve that and that's something we'll talk more about next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up for me.
In terms of you guys have been pretty focused on debt reduction here this year as we think about future years will that continue to be a goal of yours? And how are you thinking about -- I think in the past you've looked about -- talked about long-term debt ratios that are closer to 2x.
What will be your goal with free cash flow? And how do you think about leverage? That's it.
Yes this is Dale.
Our long-term debt ratio is the same as it was before this acquisition in the 2x level.
We're looking to reduce the debt.
We're committed to reduce the debt and get it back down to that level.
Certainly though as time goes on and we start -- we don't have to wait until we're exactly at 2x to start to consider other things to do with some of the cash flow.
We will continue to reduce the leverage on the business.
However as we start approaching our longer-term ratios then we can start considering other activities.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You referred to Optimum and Stearns &amp; Foster and -- as they come down off some product launches.
Will we see more products from them coming next year to get that life cycle moving back in the other direction? The short answer is yes.
They're both -- I mean both of them are important parts of the portfolio.
Both of them had hard comps this quarter because of the launches last year.
But both are important and both will be products that we will have new products for in the first part of 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And second question on the Choice line you had mentioned in the prepared comments it's going to be rolled out by the end of the year.
Given the training that was referred to in a previous question what period do you think we will have a good view of what that product is going to do in terms of sales? Will it be well into next year beginning of next year? What do you think? I don't have an exact number on that but I think it will take -- it's going to take a little while.
The comparable I would use is Breeze which launched third quarter of last year and it's still growing as we speak.
It takes a little -- and Breeze -- and that's partly because Breeze is a relatively more -- a slightly more complicated sale.
Choice is more complicated yet.
Yet the satisfaction of the people who own it and the confidence of the people who sell it both of those will grow over time.
So what I -- I do believe it's going to take a little time and I think that -- another thing that is very comparable when you're modeling this and thinking about it is the adjustable basis when they first started it was very much a function of which salesperson was selling it in any given store to judge what would be the attachment rate.
And over time as that has grown and grown people have become more and more confident and now it is something that essentially everybody does.
That's the analogy that I think of.
It's a mechanical device that takes more explanation but the consumer when they get it really like it.
So I think it's going to take a little while.
And so I think your question is right the exact time I don't know with precision.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> When we look at the upcoming quarter and the closeout of the prior lines I mean are you expecting any kind of margin pressure from that? Into our expectations.
Research Division</strong> It is built into the expectations'? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you look at the kind of the lessons learned from the rollout this year as you launched a number of Tempur initiatives what would you do differently in the upcoming year as you guys roll out a suite of new products? Well one of the things that we've done -- I mentioned it in the last call but it's important is that we have put a big -- well an organizational focus but we have created an infrastructure of people and organization partly as a result of the combination of the 2 companies but frankly a lot of it new to oversee the product launch process.
Because as we become more -- as it becomes a more frequent and important component of our overall business we need to get better and better at it and we are.
And so I am pleased with the progress we are making.
But among the things that we'll do for example is we're going to have -- we're going to strive to have greater levels of inventory at the times of initial launches.
For example our testing will have done earlier.
We're just going to -- we're going to move things forward to make it -- to give ourselves more breathing room.
And by planning in advance to be able to do that from the beginning which we've now been doing systematically for some while it's going to be -- it's going to give us that amount of breathing room to do those things that will make sure that there's a greater frequency of product innovation and new product rollouts can be done as close to flawlessly as we can.
Our next question comes from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> If you look at the -- you talked about the upper end of the line $2 000 and up versus $2 000 and below.
It sounds like the commentary was kind of similar with Q2 where $2 000 and up was positive $2 000 and below is still negative.
Did both of those 2 directionally get better or was one a bigger sign of improved performance? $2 000 and up did improve from the second quarter.
Below $2 000 was less negative than the second quarter but a lot of that had to do with simplicity had an easier compare.
Research Division</strong> So in short the above $2 000 was more positive? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good.
And then -- I don't think you quantified a synergy number for Q3 like you've done with last quarter.
Is that something you could provide for us Dale? Yes it was about 7 and we would expect 7 in the fourth quarter also.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then just lastly just to understand the puts and takes around the guidance of sales at the high-end and EPS and EBITDA at the middle.
You talk about mix.
Can we just pinpoint that directly to the weakness in International relative to expectations? Is that the simple reason for the EPS to be at the midpoint on better sales? That and the cost around TEMPUR-Up yes.
Tempur International when we gave the guidance in July we said that we were expecting Tempur International to be up low single digits instead of down 3% to 4% so that -- the profitability of Tempur International gives us a lot of pressure there as well as the TEMPUR-Up costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just even one follow-on.
With the Tempur North America gross margin is that generally trending in line with how you thought if you think it's going to be slightly down year-on-year? I was thinking that as you're kind of lapping some of the rollout costs with Breeze and Weightless that you guys might begin to see some year-on-year improvement in North America about this time.
Excluding the TEMPUR-Up costs Tempur North America's gross margin is up.
Our next question comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about -- with your ownership of Sealy now that's clearly consolidated the industry at the manufacturing level to some degree.
I always kind of thought one of the beneficial byproducts might be greater discipline in pricing and promotion.
Is there any evidence that you're seeing of that given kind of the change in the structure at the manufacturing level? This is and it will remain a very competitive industry.
And so -- it was before and it still is now I'm afraid.
I'm not afraid I mean just the fact that's how it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark the volatility that you referred to it does seem like it's been fairly extreme.
Extreme might be too bold a term.
But I don't know is this just kind of part of -- are you thinking about this as kind of part -- is this the new normal or is this kind of abnormally high and you expect some kind of reversion to the mean over time? And what do you think is kind of driving the volatility right now? Is it really the consumer and their willingness to spend? Is it kind of something going on from a product or innovation standpoint? I'm just trying to get a better sense for this volatility if we should expect it to continue.
I'll share with you my opinion but that's what it is because I don't have any crystal ball.
What I know is that a lot of our retail partners are commenting on the fact that the number of visitors that they get to their stores can vary quite significantly from 1 week to the next.
And so it's very much to do with people coming out and coming shopping.
And I think that -- I think one interpretation of this situation is that we are at this stage where there's a kind of a beginning of the green shoots coming out but people aren't quite sure.
So when you're doing -- if you have a government shutdown that kind of knocks everything back for a while then you have -- things look positive and then a little negative.
And I think people are just kind of nervous.
And I -- but what I -- I think that we're at a point where it's going to eventually smooth one way or the other.
It's always -- there's always going to be a degree of volatility.
I think over the last few months it's been particularly significant.
I think -- I don't think there's anything systematic about why that should last forever.
So I think it's probably going to stabilize over time.
And I think the other thing is that when you look at it on a very short periods you're bound to see volatility.
For example last year there was Sandy and this year there wasn't.
This year there was a government shutdown last year there wasn't.
This year there was an election -- the election started at a different time.
So it's -- by the time you corrected for everything it does -- it's less volatile than when you look at it week-to-week.
But my view is that there's nothing systematic that says this is how it should remain.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
One more question just on innovation.
There's been a lot of innovation over the last 12 months -- so 12 to 18 months I guess from Simplicity to Breeze to Choice and the new Adjustable Base.
Does that pace of innovation perhaps moderate somewhat from here and the focus shift a bit more the execution in the market with kind of new advertising and the training of the RSAs? Or -- and do you think you try and kind of maintain this pace of torrid innovation if necessary? Well as we said there are 4 things that we're focused on and innovation is one marketing is the other new product expansion and supply chain.
But the 2 are marketing and innovation are the 2.
And the fact is I think that there is a requirement in order for us to continue to be successful and to continue our growth that we innovate on a regular basis.
What the exact cadence is we're still kind of working out.
And there is no doubt that there is a -- that too much innovation without good execution -- and I think particularly in execution it's effective rollout effective training of the people in the stores and so on is not valuable.
But we are committed to the fact that we have to innovate and execute very effectively as well as advertising and other forms of marketing.
So I would say that from a planning purposes point of view we do anticipate that this relatively high cadence of innovation is going to continue.
Our next question comes from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but can you just give us a sense for the market for cooperative advertising and what you're seeing on the competitive side on that front? And also do you do any cooperative advertising for Tempur or is this really just a Sealy phenomenon? We missed the first part of your question there Carla.
I know it's about cooperative advertising and -- but what was the first part of it? Research Division</strong> Just how -- whether that market has heated up the competition from a cooperative advertising standpoint.
Again we are in a competitive environment and this is a component of a competitive tool set.
I know that we and particularly the Sealy team are very focused on making -- we collectively both Tempur and Sealy and particularly the Sealy team are focused on making sure as much of the cooperative advertising is used for advertising that really builds the brand and works in concert with the key brand messages.
And they are having quite good success at that that team is.
The Tempur team have always done that.
There is cooperative advertising from Tempur but that's always been on the basis of -- based on advertising advertising linked to the Tempur national advertising.
And both of those are showing some success.
And I think that where it's worked well is where advertising by the retailers and the national advertising is done together.
It more than -- it's more valuable than the 2 -- 1 and 1 make more than 2.
And so we as a company continue to focus on that as a tool.
But overall cooperative advertising I wouldn't say is either more or less competitive than it has been.
[Operator Instructions] Our last question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Dale I should have asked this question because you've given enough pieces of it and I apologize for getting back on the queue.
But since you're going to put the Q out on -- the 10-Q out on Friday can you give us the operating margin number by segments? Operating margin by segment? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
As you do in the Q.
Yes.
Well keep in mind it's on GAAP basis right? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
So Tempur -- or I'm sorry Sealy was 10.8.
Total Tempur operating margin is at the -- including corporate now again this gets mixed together is at 13.3.
And hang on I'm trying to read small print.
Tempur International is at 22.
I don't have Tempur North America split out from corporate right now.
So you can see that Friday.
I don't have that in front of me.
I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mark Sarvary for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thanks very much.
We look forward to talking with you all again early next year.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to Tempur Sealy fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today's conference may be recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mark Rupe.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thanks Gary.
Thank you for participating on today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the Company's expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the Company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include: economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the Company's SEC filings including but not limited to: annual reports on Form 10-K and the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the Company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date in which it is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations to non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the Company's website at tempursealy.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I will provide an overview of our performance in the fourth quarter and then discuss our key strategic growth initiatives in the context of our outlook for 2014.
I'll then turn the call over too Dale who will provide details on the fourth quarter and full-year financial results and 2014 guidance.
Overall our fourth quarter was in line with our expectations.
We achieved solid overall growth in the quarter and are pleased in particular with the improvement in our Sealy and Tempur International businesses.
Sealy's fourth-quarter sales were above our expectations driven by continued strong demand for Posturepedic Innerspring and Hybrid products increased consolidated sales from our Comfort Revolution joint venture and higher international sales in South America.
Tempur International returned to positive growth in the fourth quarter with sales increasing in Europe Asia and Latin America.
Our performance in Europe strengthened through the quarter with most of our markets showing growth; however sales did remain weak in Germany.
Our Asia-Pacific business also had another good quarter of growth driven by strong results in Korea and Australia.
Tempur North America fourth-quarter sales were down 1%.
Sales in our retail channel which account for 93% of segment sales were up 1%.
Sales of products priced at $2 000 and above grew for the third consecutive quarter.
And we saw solid growth in our adjustable base products driven by higher attach rates and strong demand for our new Ergo-Plus and TEMPUR-Up products.
We had a good fourth quarter overall and have seen more stable performance in our business.
However demand continues to remain volatile week to week with some softness in January due to sluggish traffic at retail in the US.
And as Dale will explain there was a certain degree of caution in our projections for 2014.
Now I'd like to discuss our strategic growth initiatives in the context of our outlook for 2014.
As I said before the foundation of our strategy is the commitment to investing in four key areas of our business.
These areas are: product innovation marketing new market expansion and our supply chain which we are striving to make easier to do business with.
As previously communicated we will fund these investments with a portion of the cost synergies realized from the Sealy acquisition and our annual cost productivity programs as well as through overall growth in the business.
The first strategic initiative is product innovation.
Our goal is to provide consumers the best bed and the best sleep of their life and to provide our retailers a complete and optimal offering across brands products and prices to drive their growth.
To achieve this we will increase our investment in R&amp;D in 2014.
We have an integrated global product development team that is focused on further leveraging the combined technologies of our comprehensive portfolio of products as well as developing new to the industry technologies.
Our new UP adjustable bases with Stearns &amp; Foster and Optimum are the first examples of our ability to leverage technologies across our brand portfolio.
In January we introduced a record number of new products in Las Vegas and Cologne Germany.
Our new TEMPUR-Cloud and Contour launches will be the largest in Tempur's history and consist of seven new beds featuring bold new iconic designs upgraded comfort feels additional cooling features; and innovative new removable washable top covers.
We also introduced four new Stearns &amp; Foster collections including a new hybrid offering at the upper end of the range.
The new Stearns &amp; Foster lineup is integrated with OUTLAST material and air vents for improved climate performance and has a clear step-up story with features such as IntelliCoil-encased springs cashmere covers and hand tufting.
Our Tempur North America and Stearns &amp; Foster introductions were very well received by our customers and in testing by consumers and RSAs [ph].
We are expecting both launches to be important drivers of our growth in 2014.
We already have started production on both and are building inventory in anticipation of the rollout starting in the first quarter.
In addition we are excited about our all-new Optimum collection five new beds featuring more OUTLAST material more general memory foam from the top to bottom of the mattress and taller profiles that we believe will strengthen Optimum's competitive position within the $1 000 to $2 000 price segment.
These will be rolled out in the second quarter.
Not only were the new product features and aesthetics well-received but retailers also responded well to the fact that all the lines fit together with logical price points and step-up stories from top to bottom both within and across the brands.
New product introductions are occurring in our international markets as well.
With the recent Cologne Fair in Germany we introduced six new Tempur mattresses featuring Breeze technology with two models in each of the three mattress collections.
As you know we've been very pleased with demand for our Breeze beds in North America and are excited about the prospects for it internationally.
Tempur International also introduced an innovative new EasyClean pillow that features a washable material that allows for the whole pillow to be machine-washed and tumble dried as well as a new Breeze pillow and an integrated bedding system called Experience.
Our second strategic initiative is marketing and this includes advertising as well as in-store marketing and direct sales.
In 2014 we will increase our investment in marketing.
We are committed to advertising direct to the consumer to drive retail traffic and demand.
Tempur will be advertised on TV continuously throughout the year with elevated levels around major holidays.
We will leverage our Ask Me campaign with new creative and we will also support Stearns &amp; Foster Optimum and Posturepedic with consumer advertising.
We’ll also gain more impressions per dollar – per dollar spent following our recently negotiated combined media buy.
From an in-store perspective we will support our new TEMPUR-Cloud and Contour collections with new point-of-purchase materials including new fixtures and signage new headboards and new top of bed merchandising.
High-quality POP is also supporting the new Stearns &amp; Foster and Optimum launches.
Those of you who visited our showrooms last week in Las Vegas saw first-hand the visual appeal and functional benefits of the new POPs which we believe will not only differentiate our products on the floor but also serve as a compelling tool for the RSA to increase conversion rates on sales of our products.
The third strategic initiative is new market expansion.
As we laid out in our Investor Day presentation in September 2013 our international opportunity is significant.
And over time we expect to realize over $300 million in revenue synergies from international markets.
We are advancing several initiatives across the world and we will communicate them as they come to fruition.
For example last week we signed an agreement whereby we regained Tempur-Pedic distribution rights in Mexico previously held by a third-party distributor.
This is the first deal since our combination with Sealy.
Now while a relatively small business for Tempur today Sealy has an established business in Mexico with deep and broad customer relationships.
We are confident that the combination of the two businesses will enable us to drive our overall performance in Mexico.
Also in January we began integrating Sealy Canada and Tempur Canada.
Now this is not a market expansion as both are already on markets.
Sealy is the market leader and Tempur has a smaller but important presence but it is an important strategic initiative that we believe will improve our overall business in Canada and importantly make it easier for customers to do business with us there.
Indeed our fourth strategic initiative is our commitment to building a world-class supply chain that is easier to do business with.
We have several exciting initiatives underway that will improve customer service and lower costs within our transportation and distribution network and we will update you on our progress later in the year.
In addition we're rolling out our category management program which is designed to help optimize floor plans to improve both our own and our retailers' sales and profitability.
Our Company accomplished a great deal in 2013 and we are excited about all of the initiatives we have in place for 2014.
Since completing the acquisition last year we have integrated all the key functions delivered greater cost synergies than initially projected developed and launched compelling new products across our brands and laid the groundwork for future revenue synergies both in the US and across the world.
An enormous amount of effort is behind each of these company-wide initiatives and I am very proud of how the organization has come together as a single team.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the fourth-quarter and full-year 2013 financial results and then discuss our 2014 guidance.
I'll address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance for each segment and provide commentary on the key areas or items where there's a notable variance from the prior year.
As a reminder the Company completed its acquisition of Sealy in March 2013 and results for 2012 do not include the Sealy results of operations.
Consolidated net sales for the fourth quarter were $678.1 million.
Tempur North America net sales were down 0.7% and Tempur International net sales were up 4.5%.
Sealy sales were $333.5 million.
By product bedding net sales for Tempur North America declined 0.7% to $205.7 million on flat units.
Tempur International bedding net sales increased 4.5% to $88 million on a unit increase of 4%.
Sealy's bedding net sales were $305.3 million.
By channel Tempur North America retail net sales increased 1% and direct net sales declined 28%.
Tempur International retail net sales increased 4.7% and direct sales increased 16.3%.
Fourth-quarter gross margin was 40.2% as compared to 50% in the fourth quarter last year.
As we previously stated on conference calls the inclusion of Sealy has altered the consolidated gross margin profile of the business.
On a year-over-year basis fourth-quarter gross margin declined primarily due to the inclusion of Sealy and product mix; these impacts were partially offset by lower sourcing costs.
On a sequential basis gross margin decreased to 40.2% from 40.6% primarily due to fixed cost deleverage in the Sealy segment and product mix.
These were partially offset by favorable geographic mix.
Consolidated advertising spend which includes both national and cooperative was $71.4 million or 10.5% of sales in the fourth quarter.
Tempur North America advertising spend increased nearly 30% versus last year.
G&amp;A as presented for the full-year 2013 reflects a $6 million reclassification to selling and marketing expenses of approximately $3 million occurring in both the second and third quarters of 2013.
This reclassification does not impact previously reported operating income.
Consolidated operating income was $74.1 million as compared to $51.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Operating income in the fourth quarter of 2013 included $8.2 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Operating income in the fourth quarter of 2012 included $7.6 million of transaction and integration costs related to the proposed Sealy acquisition as well as $1.5 million of restructuring charges.
Interest expense was $22.6 million.
The fourth quarter tax rate was 44% and reflects an adjustment to the repatriation tax based on final foreign earnings and profits for 2013.
The normalized tax rate was 29.3%.
In our fourth-quarter income statement we have a line item titled – less redeemable non-controlling interest.
This deduction to net income attributable to Tempur Sealy international Inc.
and GAAP earnings per share is related to our joint venture with Comfort Revolution.
Because we do not own 100% of Comfort Revolution this amount has historically included the percentage of Comfort Revolution's net income that we do not own.
As necessary the amount will also include adjustments for changes in the redemption value attributable to our call option to purchase the remaining equity interest in the joint venture which reduced net income attributable to Tempur Sealy.
We will record non-cash adjustments in future periods as necessary; these adjustments will not be reflected in our adjusted EBITDA or adjusted earnings per share.
Fourth-quarter GAAP earnings per share was $0.37 as compared to $0.39 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.66 in the fourth quarter as compared to adjusted EPS of $0.60 in the prior year period.
Now I will summarize the income statement for the full-year 2013.
As a reminder 2013 results only include Sealy from March 18 2013.
Sales increased 76% to $2.5 billion with the increase due to the inclusion of $1.1 billion of Sealy net sales for the period subsequent to the March close.
Tempur North America sales declined 6% while Tempur International sales were flat relative to full-year 2012 sales.
Operating income was $244 million as compared to $248 million in 2012.
Operating income for full-year 2013 included $44.6 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
In 2012 operating income for the full-year included $11.1 million of transaction and integration costs related to the proposed Sealy acquisition and $1.5 million of restructuring charges.
GAAP earnings per share for full-year 2013 were $1.20 as compared to GAAP earnings per share for full-year 2012 of $1.70.
Adjusted EPS in 2013 were $2.38 as compared to $2.61 in 2012.
Now I'll turn to the balance sheet and cash flow for a brief review.
As shown on the balance sheet the primary changes are related to the acquisition and related accounting treatment.
The Company has consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.8 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.4 times calculated on a combined basis in accordance with the Company's senior secured facility.
A calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
During the quarter operating cash flow was slightly negative due to a $40 million cash tax repatriation payment.
We initially accrued for this tax provision in the third quarter of 2012 based on the timing of our decision to acquire Sealy.
Capital expenditures were $11.6 million.
Now I'd like to address our 2014 guidance.
Today the Company issued financial guidance for 2014.
The Company currently expects net sales to be in a range of $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion.
This reflects growth of 1% to 5% compared to 2013 had we owned Sealy for all of 2013 and approximately 50 basis points of headwind from forecasted unfavorable foreign exchange.
Adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $415 million to $435 million including a forecasted unfavorable foreign exchange impact of approximately $9 million and adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.85.
This includes $0.19 per share of depreciation and amortization related to the Sealy purchase price allocation or PPA and unfavorable foreign exchange of $0.10 per share.
We're also providing the following additional full-year 2014 guidance assumptions: depreciation and amortization of approximately $93 million which includes the PPA depreciation and amortization of $17 million; interest expense of approximately $89 million; the annual tax rate of approximately 31%; average share count 62.1 million shares; and capital expenditures of approximately $65 million.
It is important to note that our 2014 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS guidance excludes the impact of ongoing integration costs related to the acquisition of Sealy.
From an earnings perspective our guidance reflects margin expansion resulting from cost synergies and leverage offset partially by investments in new products marketing and R&amp;D as well as forecasted unfavorable exchange foreign exchange as compared to 2013 related primarily to Canada.
Based on these assumptions we expect our operating margins to be in the range of 11.7% to 12% for the full-year 2014.
We are planning for first-quarter 2014 sales to be flat to slightly up as compared to fourth-quarter 2013 sales of $678.1 million.
As Mark indicated order trends have been somewhat soft in January due to sluggish traffic at retail in the US.
Our first-quarter sales outlook also assumes a slight transitory impact as customers wind down inventory on existing models advance the flooring of our new Tempur-Pedic and Stearns &amp; Foster products.
We expect our operating margins to be approximately 10% in the first quarter of 2014.
In the first quarter we will ship a record number of floor models as we launch the new TEMPUR-Cloud and Contour offerings as well as the new Stearns &amp; Foster collections.
In addition we expect floor model shipments to remain elevated in the second quarter as we complete these rollouts and begin shipping our new Optimum beds but expect floor model shipments to be much lower in the second half of the year.
Through January we are tracking to these expectations.
In considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities for the consequences of other risk factors we've identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the Company's control.
With that operator please open the lines for questions.
Yes sir.
(Operator Instructions) One moment for questioners to queue.
And it looks like our first phone question will come from Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Hi Mark Dale and Mark.
Thank you for taking my questions here.
Just on the guidance is it possible to talk about what the guidance implies for each of the three segments on the top line? Sure for the full year we actually expect all three segments to grow mid single digits.
For the first quarter as I mentioned we expect Sealy to be flat to slightly up.
We expect the Tempur International to be flat.
We expect Tempur North America to be down mid single digits and again that's a function of the transition of essentially the core of our product line.
Okay thank you for that.
That's very helpful and then the deal that you said you inked in Mexico can you talk a little bit about maybe a little more detail what exactly that is and what the potential revenue upside might be from that deal?  For Tempur North America or for Tempur it's a relatively small business mid single-digit millions but for Sealy it's really quite a large business almost 10 x as big.
And I think it's one of the examples of where we can leverage one infrastructure i.e.
in this case Sealy to gain greater distribution of another – of our other product line in this case Tempur.
The way that it's done though has been very consistent with the way around the world.
We have acquired what we call third party – Tempur third parties.
We've done this all across the world in Australia in Austria in Poland and Korea.
This has been our traditional method of seeding a country and then growing it when it gets to its established stage.
And Josh the cost is fairly minimal; it's about $1 million.
Okay.
Great and then if I can just sneak one more in.
With respect to the rollouts it seems like I think you mentioned this will be the greatest rollout in terms of SKUs going out for Tempur.
How does this compare to the previous rollout last year in terms of the gross margin impact that it might have?  Well if you think – if you want – kind of as a model the way to think about it this is in the second quarter of last year we launched – we had more floor models a combination of Tempur and Sealy had more floor models than ever before; I think we said the number around 70 000 floor models.
This year in the first quarter we will have a number comparable to that.
And so that's a much bigger number than has ever been done in the first quarter and traditionally these big rollouts are done in the second quarter.
This year we're going to have that number in the first quarter.
And then in the second quarter we're going to have an elevated level roughly comparable to what we had in the prior year.
So it's going to have an impact on gross margin and –  From a margin implication standpoint for the year we are expecting gross margin for the business to be about 41%.
In the first half we would expect that to be roughly 100 basis points lower as there will be significant floor model expenses in both the first and second quarters.
And then in the second half obviously better as we get past the big rollouts.
And to put that in context that 41% is about 100 basis points better than the last three quarters of this year if you average that.
And that's a function of the cost synergies that we've been able to get offset by the product – the investments we've made in these new products as well as FX which as Dale said has been hurdle at this time.
Okay so 70 million SKUs rolling out this quarter and… 70 000.
That’d be great.
That would be a big number and an additional 70 000 in Q2 as will then right? I'm not giving exact numbers.
I'm just using that as a – that's a good basis because that was the number we used last year that was the number we quoted you last year and that is roughly right for both quarters.
Okay.
Terrific.
I appreciate the help.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you Sir.
Our next phone question will come from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
Just to follow-up around the some of the financial outlook for the first half of the year.
I know you're not giving specific quarterly earnings guidance but Dale could you give us maybe a little bit better sense of what range you think this first quarter might come in given that it's such an unusual kind of step period that we're up against?  Well from a total business standpoint we're looking at sales at the top line of minus 1% to minus 2% on a year-over-year basis.
And what that means to give you a gauge since you don't know what the first quarter last year was except because that was essentially Tempur only.
That's why we gave you the gauge against the sequential of the fourth quarter – first quarter we expect to be flat to slightly up from the fourth quarter.
And then also in the fourth – first quarter of this year we're expecting EBIT margin to be around 10% impacted by the floor models.
And as we said in the prepared remarks January sales were a little bit softer that we would have liked.
Actually it's from an overall standpoint most of the country was fine.
There were a couple segments of the country basically the Northeast and the Midwest that were a little bit soft and anyone's guess as to what could have caused that here over the last month.
But I think that gives you a pretty good indication of how to gauge Q1.
That's very helpful.
From a synergy perspective I know as time goes on it will get more and more difficult to quantify it but you did say you're finding more opportunities and getting them – realizing them faster than you had expected.
Where do you think synergies will come in since the deal closed and what you’re modeling for 2014? Well I would say we're not inconsistent from what we said at the Analyst Day last September or the Investor Day in September in New York.
When we did – decided to purchase Sealy we had an estimate of $40 million of synergies being recognized over the first three years.
In year one to the best of our ability to track it we believe we ended up right about the $18 million number that we talked about on the third-quarter earnings call.
For this year just as we talked about in September we believe that we will see about $40 million of synergies.
But also consistent with what we said in September is that some of these excess synergies that we're getting we're reinvesting in the business we're reinvesting in the product we're reinvesting in R&amp;D we're reinvesting in marketing.
And that's what is consistent with what you are seeing in our plans for 2014.
Great thanks so much.
Thank you Sir.
Our next question in queue will come from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I didn't know who he was talking about.
Good morning Dale.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning Mark.
Good afternoon Sorry about that.
Couple of questions if I could one on the pro forma Dale for the year if we were to take it because you say the year is going to be up 1% to 5% is that about $2.78 billion or $2.77 billion; how do we think about it?  It would be round to – $2.8 billion $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion we are really… But that's what your guidance assumes and you said that's up 1% to 5% versus the pro forma last year if I read that right.
Yes you're saying for 2013 yeah on a pro forma basis 2013 would be about 2.77.
Okay all right.
When you talk about the – you said 50 basis points of foreign exchange drag is that against the $2.77 billion? No well that is included in the $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion.
And if you see – And the $9 million of foreign exchange drag on the earnings line that looks like it's going to be pre-taxed if I – is that right?  Correct.
Okay.
When you look at the operating margin by segment in the fourth quarter I know we are going to get that with the K can you give us an early look at what the operating margins by segment were? and because in the K you are going to see GAAP I'll give you GAAP.
On a consolidated basis operating margins were 10.8% in the quarter.
The Sealy operating margins was at 6.4% for the quarter.
I'm going to come back and give you a little color here; Tempur International 23.8% and Tempur North America 10.3%.
A couple things to point out there; number one on Tempur North America.
The Tempur North America bears the cost of corporate so all the corporate cost get borne in that Tempur North America number.
In addition a significant percentage of the transactions – all the transaction costs but a significant percentage of the integration costs are borne in the Tempur North America number.
Sealy in the fourth quarter was a little bit lower than what it had been running but Sealy in the fourth quarter that's a softer quarter traditionally for Sealy; certainly it's a – Sealy's fourth quarter business is much less than the third-quarter business particularly on a new calendar basis that they're on.
So you get some fixed cost deleverage within Sealy also as Comfort Revolutions is growing and that's a becoming a little bit bigger piece of the Sealy segment.
Comfort Revolutions being a start-up is not very profitable yet.
So that also drags the Sealy margins.
Okay.
And at the end of 2014 where do you think you will be with your debt to leverage ratio? Where do you project you'll be? We at the midpoint of our guidance that would imply a debt to EBITDA of about 3.8%.
Okay and how does that compare to where you thought you would be by now? I know that if you go back and think about where you were when we originally when you originally planned the acquisition and came to us.
Well for the end of 2014 we would have thought we would have been probably in the 3.5% range.
Certainly the – our business in 2013 was not as strong as we would have liked and as strong as we thought it might be at that time particularly on the Tempur side.
Tempur North America did not perform as we expected it to at the start of the year.
Tempur International did not perform as we expected it to at the start of the year.
So that – Sealy actually performed slightly better than we expected at the start of the year.
So overall it's basically the Tempur business in 2013 was a little softer than we would have liked.
And so that translates on a compound basis to just slightly better – slightly higher on the debt to EBITDA than what we would have expected a year ago.
Okay and do you think you'll catch that up or how does that…  Yes but I would say that again going back to September and the Investor Day and the three-year plan we talked about the guidance we just gave for 2014 is absolutely consistent with that plan.
We said we wanted as an overall – as a combined business to have a 6% or more compounded growth rate.
We also said we expected to be a little bit lower than that at the beginning and for that growth rate to grow over that three-year period as we got further into the integration as we got further into the benefits of the integration and being able to share more on the technology side and on the customer side.
So I think that we're right in line with what the plan we outlined last September.
Okay.
My last question just is on the FX is it all – is that pretty much all Euro or how do we – how should we think about?  Well actually a significant piece of that is Canada the Canadian dollar.
So the Canadian dollar is a significant piece of the FX problem.
Actually the Euro is doing pretty well right now.
But in Canada we have a very sizable business in Canada on a combined Tempur/Sealy basis.
Just if you look at last year 2013 the average exchange rate was $0.97.
Our planning for this year was to have the exchange rate be about $0.92.
Today well I didn't see today but I assume it's not that different but right now the spot rate is right about $0.90.
So the Canadian dollar has significantly weakened.
That creates – the reason why that creates a little bit more earnings pressure than what you might expect is a significant portion of the COGs of the Canadian business both for Tempur and Sealy is US dollar denominated.
The COGs goes up while the revenue is going down.
And internationally we do have some – we've got a mixed bag on Tempur International side.
There is some FX pressure there as well and the Euro as I said is – the European community in total is roughly is okay.
Most of the FX pressure that we're seeing is in Asia.
Got you okay.
And one more.
I'm sorry one thing for you the acquisition in Canada and the combination in Canada and combination of Mexico is that – you're thinking that's strategically something you're going to do in most other parts of the world? Now you're going to combine Sealy and Tempur that way; is that a model for outside the US?  Just to be clear the license in Mexico was an acquisition but the Canadian one was not.
That's just a merger of two companies that were already owned by us.
But what I think is the model that we will replicate wherever we can is where we have strong infrastructure of one company and a weaker one – if we have two companies both Tempur and – legacy Tempur and legacy Sealy in geographies we're looking for places where the infrastructure of one can help the sales of the other.
And as I said in my prepared notes there are several things that we're working on.
Obviously I can't talk about them until they come to fruition but that's the model that we're looking at.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Good luck on the rest of the year.
Thank you Sir.
John Baugh with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good evening.
Couple of things.
First could you just comment on what drove the Tempur direct business in the quarter negative year over year?  The fact is it hasn't been good it hasn't been good it wasn't good for much of last year and there are several reasons for this one – several macro reasons for this.
One is that there is a fundamental – a growth by retailers to have direct businesses which effectively provides another way for people to get Tempur products online.
And so that puts a form of competition in place not to mention that there are other obviously competing [metrics].
It also is affected by the fact that it's very sensitive to advertising and as you know we didn't advertise continuously throughout last year and we are doing that now.
Also it's very susceptible to promotion.
But having said all of that we have a big focus this first part of the year on direct.
We put our first focus last year on retail because that – 93% of our business that was where we had to put our focus.
But we have now put a degree of focus on that direct business and we know it's an important part of our business and we do intend to stabilize it and use it effectively.
But it is not – we're not pleased with the results.
Now having said that direct includes what we traditionally think of as direct which is telephone sales and Internet sales and catalogs and so on.
But it also includes – it is both international – I'm sorry it is both in the North America and internationally and it also includes retail stores.
And if we look at our direct business internationally that is growing quite well.
The retail stores are growing quite well internationally but so is our direct Internet business.
In the North America as you know we have our flagship stores the three flagship stores.
They too are performing quite well.
So it is – we're now turning our attention to that area.
Great and then Mark could you just maybe give us an outlook internationally not just for Tempur but to Sealy as well and the key markets both brands address?  Well if you look at – in a very broad brush if you look at Europe Tempur is very established in Europe all the large countries literally obviously all the large countries.
And we have a strong business there and we're well established and have good infrastructure.
Sealy has a license business in that part of the world and clearly there over time that could be an opportunity there.
In Asia it's a bit broad to call it Asia because Asia is so different but if you look at – Sealy and now Tempur Sealy has a joint venture in much of Asia which is a strong and growing joint ventures.
Tempur has business across Asia: China Japan Korea and so on.
So there are opportunities there across the board for a combined – not necessarily combined but there are opportunities in different places in different ways.
It will be different.
We have the joint venture is one that is planned to through 2020 but we have opportunities for sharing and leveraging each of those infrastructures in different parts of Asia.
And in South America I talked about Mexico and then in South America Sealy there is both Sealy and Tempur have businesses but Sealy has the more established infrastructure particularly in Argentina than does Tempur.
And both groups are growing well in Brazil so there are opportunities there for combination.
Great and then lastly maybe for Dale.
There are so many moving parts; you mentioned the segment or Tempur North America EBIT at I think 10.3% but it's got all the corporate.
Is there any way – and I know in the first half we're going to have a bunch of noise with product launch is there any way to think about where Tempur North American EBIT margin is settling out on an annual basis ex-corporate cost and ex the transaction cost and product intro noise et cetera? Thank you.
Tempur North America as we look at it is from a 2013 standpoint stripping out all the integration all the transaction costs all the corporate costs Tempur North America on a stand-alone basis actually it had a pretty decent results.
Actually it had a pretty good year.
From an overall EBIT standpoint at Tempur North America is more in the high teens and for next year we would actually expect Tempur North America to improve its profitability.
We believe that Tempur North America in 2014 we'll see some gross margin expansion.
And while we are investing some more in marketing we'll see leverage in R&amp;D and in some other selling aspects that as we get benefits in the business because of the improvement and the synergies year over year there's $22 million additional synergies in 2014.
So we do expect to see some improvement in the bottom line of Tempur North America as a stand-alone entity.
One of the complications is over time Tempur North America is becoming less and less of a stand-alone entity.
And for North American Sealy or – as the integration goes further and further are becoming more of one entity.
Great those numbers are helpful and then just lastly if I could it sounds like weather has impacted January to a degree.
Are you able to look at the other areas of the country and is there any perceptible change from – I don't know I guess December was tough too with the weather and holiday.
Maybe going back to the October/November comparative period?  Well I don't have October/ November in front of me but certainly in January the bulk of the country we saw good performance but we did see specific weakness in the Northeast and the Midwest.
I'll let you draw the conclusion as to what drove that.
With a few weekend storms but this business is heavily reliant on weekends and when weekends are impacted it can affect the business.
Great thank you.
Good luck.
Thank you Sir.
Our next phone question will come from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask first about gross margin and if you could break that out for us roughly by the three divisions?  What time periods? For the fourth quarter please.
Gross margins – again this is on a GAAP basis Tempur North America about – was 43.6%; Tempur International 60.1%; Sealy 30.9%; consolidated 40.2%.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Was there any kind of ForEx hit in 2013?  Fairly minimal.
We had – normally when we have much movement in foreign exchange we particularly on our international business we talk about here's the actual performance; here is what it would be on a constant currency basis.
If you noticed we didn't talk about that on this release and all year really the impact of FX has been fairly nominal.
There was some impact in the particularly in the Sealy business in the second half of the year as the Canadian dollars were starting to weaken.
But the primary impact and the significant weakening occurred late in the year and that's why we are projecting a big impact in 2014.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
Just going back to Tempur North America was the performance in line with your expectations of flat to up low single digits if you take out the Northeast and the Midwest?  Well the Northeast and Midwest we're talking about is January.
Okay.
And so yes Tempur North America was close.
I mean it was down 0.7%; we thought it would be flat to slightly up.
So it was a little bit below our expectations.
Okay okay got it.
Just last one can you tell us what level of guidance – sorry of advertising is embedded in your guidance?  Yes for the next year from a percent of revenue standpoint we're looking for something in the ballpark of 10.5% to 11% of sales consistent with what we have normally run.
Great thank you so much.
And importantly one thing on advertising is that we will be running continuously throughout this year.
That's an important – just although the rate we will be – the way of doing it is going to be especially – we want to be sure we're on air all the time.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you Ma'am.
Our next phone question will come from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
Just wanted to start with the advertising you mentioned Dale just now to a previous question 10.5% to 11% in 2014.
Just for comparative purposes what was that ratio in 2013?  That's a complicated one Joe.
It was right around 11% and the reason why that 's complicated is we don't really have the results from Sealy for most of the first quarter.
True okay.
It was ballpark right around 11%.
Okay got you.
And in terms of the first quarter guide you mentioned obviously weather impacting you in January.
If you can just look at those markets that are not weather-impacted what you seeing in terms of year-over-year increase? Is - what would Tempur North America be up in the first quarter ex weather I guess is the best way to ask that?  Well I'm not going to parse it that way Joe.
Weather has some impact on January all that business could come back in February if the weather calms down; certainly it could come back in March.
Just because the consume – if the consumer doesn't buy this weekend they might buy next weekend or they may buy two weekends from now when they don't have something planned.
So while it may affect one month it could come back in the quarter.
But we are factoring that in a little bit but one of the big things is we've got this humongous transition occurring.
And as retailers are taking product off the floor they've got to sell that.
And as they are putting the new product on the floor they've got to sell the old product off the floor.
While retailers don't have a lot of inventory there is a little bit of inventory they've got to clear out; there's some inventory we've got to clear out.
So the transition particularly when you're talking about changing seven models from a Tempur standpoint from a Sealy standpoint all the Stearns &amp; Foster product is changing.
So that's quite a few models as well.
So that's where we're just trying to say particularly for Tempur we've never seen this level of transition before.
So we believe that there's some transitory impact that will affect the performance over the quarter.
Okay.
And that will probably continue into Q2 it sounds like given all the floor models you're shipping?  Yes a little – it will continue some into the Q2.
Yes it will.
Okay and just one last one in terms of the overall environment.
Obviously you guys are stepping up the advertising spend and I think your retail partners are very happy about that.
What are you seeing across the competitive landscape? Are others in your space coming to the realization that maybe heavy promotion is not the way to go and really shipping those dollars to more of an advertising-based model is probably smarter for everybody?  I think what the industry – certainly what retailers tell us and what we know is that first and foremost is great product.
Sealy we mentioned it but Sealy had a great quarter last – in the fourth quarter and you can attribute it to a lot of things but it's because the Posturepedic the new Posturepedics were really well liked by consumers.
It were really well liked.
First and foremost I think that what everybody realized is is product has the – drives the game and I think what we showed in Vegas what we showed in Cologne both on both the showrooms were something that we're very proud of.
We really believe that's the backbone and I think that I really do believe that the industry believes that too.
But secondly I think that people believe that advertising is driving people to the stores.
And we know that and we also know that continuity of advertising is important.
It's not good to just to do it in spurts and that requires conviction to do that and we're going to do that and I know that the retailers appreciate that too.
And I think the third thing is a worldview that it is best to make products that just that are premium-priced products that consumers are prepared to pay a premium for.
And so having ASP growth by having a focus on the best – the veteran products is something that's in everybody's interest.
And I think certainly our – we think that and I believe from all of the conversations we've had with retailers that's a common belief there too.
So I can't really speak for our competitors.
Okay okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Sir.
Next question on queue will come from the line of Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
It's Karru Martinson from Deutsche Bank.
Just when we look at the step-up in advertising and I've certainly noticed a pick-up in how many times I've seen your commercials already.
When you look at the spend are you shifting more dollars out of co-op into that national advertising campaign or do you feel like co-op dollars will stay the same?  Well one thing is that fundamentally what – I just just as a kind of backdrop the way that Tempur and Sealy have gone to market for many years is different as you know and both of us have direct to consumer and co-op.
We're not going to change to be the proportion that Tempur has on direct-to-consumer is different and will remain so and the same is largely true for Sealy.
But in terms of overall I think that we are committed to advertising.
One of the things that I mentioned briefly in the prepared notes is that one of the synergies that we are – that we hope to see the benefits of this year is that by putting together the media buying for the combined companies.
And then going – we went through a formal process with RFPs and the whole thing to negotiate a good buying rate of media good – to negotiate good prices for media we have not only been able to as we said we're maintaining our level of spending but we're also being able to get more bang for the buck where we'll be able to get more GRPs for our dollar.
And so that I think is going to be something we'll see and that's going to affect particularly direct-to-consumer advertising.
So fundamentally there's not a change in how we're allocating it but what I think is we're going to see it's a greater effectiveness as we're able to combine the two together.
Great.
And when we look at the first quarter and into the second quarter the rollout of the new beds do you feel that you've picked up a significant additional floor spots with the new product launch or do you feel that this is more of a replacing the SKUs and possibly putting a higher-turn product out there?  We hope that we will gain some floor space but it is important to note that this launch particularly for Tempur; I mean it is true for Stearns too is a replacement.
Historically most of our new launches have been a new product that's an addition and it is – we're very conscious of this and an investor should be too that this is a replacement.
And therefore we are going to be to a greater extent swapping out floor models.
However we do hope to gain some floor space with it because the new collection of seven products from Tempur has been very well received.
And it's too early to tell right now but the initial indications are that that's going to be positive so we do hope that.
What we're really counting on though is the increased turn per slot as a result of these new items.
And in the case of Stearns I think the exact same thing can be said.
The new Stearns product line has been received extremely well.
People are very positive about it.
They particularly like and interestingly and importantly they like the high end.
It comes back to the thing I was saying a little earlier has been very well – is very much appreciated by retailers.
We are expecting – we're hoping that we'll gain more slots but what we're also hoping is that we're going to get better turn and we're also hoping that we're going to get higher ASPs.
Thank you very much guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you Sir.
Our next question will come from Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
My question has been answered.
Thank you.
Thank you Sir.
Our next question will come from Jon Andersen with William Blair &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
I think Mark you've talked not that long ago about the importance of training and educating the RSAs particularly on the more complex products to overcome selling hurdles or to improve selling effectiveness.
Can you just talk a little bit about where you sit today vis-a-vis that effort and particularly in the context of significant number of new product launches this year? Thanks.
There's no question that that's true.
And it's – when we're talking about global challenges for the industry and I talked about the fact that product is important marketing is important but no doubt about it.
Training the RSAs is critical.
And two things on that.
I think that we with the new products that have been just launched from Tempur one of the things that is important is that the way that the product is demonstrated with the zip-off tops is something that's very easy for an RSA to do and yet it's very demonstrable and it's very kind of putting an interest into a consumer.
So it really passes the test as being relatively easy to do but a valuable thing to have done.
And therefore easy to learn and easy to use and that is one of the reasons that our customers and the RSAs have responded very positively to the product.
The other thing is that our focus on POP Tempur-Pedic probably more – particularly because it is something that we have put a big focus on for this launch.
And Stearns &amp; Foster consistently have in the past again have a big focus on POP.
In both cases with an eye to making it easier for an RSA to sell.
So for example the POP for Tempur products the new Tempur-Contour and Cloud products have a very simplistic description of the product and its key differentiating features and its step-up story which has people responding very well because again it's easy to train and easy to use and makes the RSA confident about justifying why one product is better or more expensive than the next one.
And in the case of the Stearns &amp; Foster products some of the POP enables a RSA to easily demonstrate what – how a – what is inside a Stearns &amp; Foster and what is – and how that is different and what it looks like when you're looking at a Stearns &amp; Foster hybrid.
So again we do believe that and that's a very important part of the POP.
Thanks that's helpful.
Maybe just a quick one for Dale.
Dale how much stock-based comp are you forecasting for 2014 and is that included in or backed out of the EBITDA forecast? Thanks.
Stock comp is included in.
Our stock comp will increase in 2014 and essentially this is why.
Stock comp builds on itself over time so our long-term incentive plan is a stock-based plan part options partly PRSUs.
If we go back several years ago we had a long-term – and the long-term incentive plan tends to be three years.
So back in 2011 we had a new long-term incentive plan that would have accrued over 2011 2012 2013.
And then in 2012 we had an alternate plan that would have accrued over 2012 2013 2014.
Well based on the results in 2012 both those plans because they were minimum hurdles based on the results in 2012 both those plans were essentially blown up.
So if you recall in 2012 we had two different points during the year had significant throwbacks where we essentially eliminated those two years of plans.
So as we came into 2014 we started with a blank slate we had alternate plan and – 2013 I'm sorry as we came into 2013 we basically had a blank slate because the 2010 plan had finished.
So we have stock comp in 2013 for the 2013 plan.
We will add a layer to that if you think of like LIFO inventory we'll add another layer to that next – this year in 2014 where you'll have the 2013 plan and then layer on the 2013 plans.
And so it builds up until you get three years in.
But stock comp is in our earnings per share.
It is in our guidance; it is in a D&amp;A element so it's not included in EBITDA but it is in EBIT.
Is that helpful?  Yes that's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you sir and presenters at this time I'm showing no additional phone questions.
I'd like to turn the program back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks a lot.
We look forward to talking with everybody again in early May when we host the first quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Thank you gentlemen and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Attendees you may now all disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now introduce your host for today's conference call Mr.
Mark Rupe.
You may begin sir.
Thanks Kevin.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempursealy.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our performance in the first quarter and then discuss the progress we're making on our key strategic growth initiatives in 2014.
I will then turn the call over to Dale who will provide details on the first quarter financial results and 2014 guidance.
We had a lot going on in the first quarter.
The majority of our strategic growth initiatives launched late in the period and we remain in the middle of implementing them.
In light of this we are satisfied with our overall performance.
TEMPUR International's performance in the first quarter exceeded our expectations with solid sales growth in Europe Asia and Latin America driven by advertising new products and expanded distribution.
Sealy's first quarter sales were in line with our expectation.
Solid growth in the U.S.
was driven by continued strong demand for Posturepedic innerspring and hybrid products and a return to growth for Stearns &amp; Foster which more than offset declined Sealy and Optimum.
Outside of the U.S Sealy sales declined and this was exacerbated by unfavorable foreign exchange.
Tempur North America first quarter sales were in line with our expectations down mid-single digits.
As we said in February we had expected first quarter sales to be muted in the U.S.
due to the poor weather in the first part of the quarter and by the transition of our core product line in the latter part of the quarter.
Of note during the quarter sales of products priced at $2 000 and above grew for the fourth consecutive quarter driven by continued strong demand for our Breeze collection and initial shipments of our new products.
Now I'd like to discuss the progress we're making on our 4 key strategic growth initiatives in 2014.
The first strategic initiative is product innovation.
And our goal is to provide consumers the best bed and the best sleep of their life and to provide our retailers a complete and optimal offering across brands products and prices to drive their growth.
In the first quarter we began rolling out several of our new products including the new Tempur North America product that I just referenced as well as our new Stearns &amp; Foster and Tempur International Breeze products.
In April we began rolling out the new Optimum line.
The magnitude of these new product launches is significant given their importance to our overall business and their concentrated rollout timeline.
The new TEMPUR-Cloud and Contour launches are the largest in Tempur-Pedic's history.
We shipped more floor model units than we planned in the first quarter and completed approximately 65% of the rollout.
As of the end of April we had shipped 80% of the total which positions us and our retail customers to benefit from having them placed on the floor in advance of the key Memorial Day holiday.
We also completed approximately 45% of our new Stearns &amp; Foster product rollout in the -- by the end of the first quarter.
And as of the end of April we had shipped 75% of the total.
We're particularly encouraged with the demand for the upper-end Lux Estate and Lux Estate Hybrid Collections.
In April we began a very concentrated rollout of the new Optimum line and have already shipped 50% of the total.
This line has been well-received by customers.
In fact the trade has been enthusiastic about all these launches.
And as a result all 3 have exceeded our slot placement expectations.
In addition we're in the process of launching the TEMPUR-Breeze mattresses in several European markets.
And here too floor placements are exceeding plan.
In aggregate the scale of this launch activity is unprecedented but it has gone well and we are pleased with our execution.
We expect to finish all of the North American product launches during the second quarter.
While it's still very early we're pleased with the initial signs we are seeing.
There has been broad retail customer support for the new products and consumer acceptance so far is what we had expected.
Enthusiasm of retail sales associates for the new Tempur-Pedic and Stearns &amp; Foster products in particular has been very encouraging and appears to be building.
We're expecting the launches of these new products to be important drivers of our growth in 2014.
Our second strategic initiative is marketing.
And this includes advertising as well as in-store marketing and direct sales.
In 2014 we will increase our investment in marketing and this will be most evident in the second quarter as we ramp our in-store marketing investment and increase our advertising spend with the launch of new television creative.
In April we began airing nationally a new product-specific TV ad for the new Cloud and Contour beds.
And in May we will launch a new Ask Me campaign.
We also expect to begin benefiting from more impressions per dollar spent as we reinvest synergies realized from our combined media buy.
We will also support Stearns &amp; Foster Optimum and Posturepedic with consumer advertising including TV digital and print.
The third strategic initiative is new market expansion.
And this includes our expansion into new international markets and over time into nonconsolidated markets where our brands are currently represented by others.
On our last call we announced that we had signed an agreement to regain Tempur-Pedic rights in Mexico previously held by a third-party distributor.
At the time it was the first deal since our combination with Sealy.
In early April we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire the Sealy brand rights in Japan and today we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire the Sealy brand rights in Continental Europe.
Each of these transactions represents significant future growth opportunities.
In Japan and Continental Europe we will leverage Tempur sales and marketing infrastructures to further increase our penetration as well as expand our product offering and distribution footprint to capture market share.
We're also advancing several other initiatives across the world including broadening the distribution of our Tempur and Stearns &amp; Foster brands in South America where we have existing Sealy assets.
And lastly our fourth strategic initiative is our commitment to building a world-class supply chain that is easier to do business with.
We're making progress on improving our distribution and warehouse network and are beginning to capture greater cost synergies.
We're currently shipping Tempur and Sealy products together on Sealy trucks in one U.S.
market and expect to layer in additional markets in 2014 and beyond.
These efforts are also expected to improve customer service.
We've also made good progress with our Category Management efforts which we expect to result in improvements to both our own and our retailers' sales and profitability in 2014.
Before turning the call over to Dale I'd like to make a couple of closing comments.
First we now passed the 1 year anniversary of our combination and we're pleased with how it's gone.
We still see many opportunities to create additional leverage and we're aggressively pursuing them.
Cost synergies are being realized to plan and we are now beginning to see the benefits from revenue synergy.
As most of you know Larry Rogers retired after a long and extremely successful career at Sealy.
And his contribution to the Tempur Sealy merger and integration efforts was invaluable.
And we're thrilled that he will continue to provide value to our organization as a member of our Board of Directors.
So to summarize Q1 was broadly in line with our expectations.
Our major initiatives for 2014 are rolling out as planned and we remain very focused on their successful execution.
Our plan calls for an acceleration of our growth on a consolidated basis and specifically in the U.S.
and we are receiving positive feedback on the new products from retailers and consumers.
However it's still early.
And we look forward to providing a more complete update when we report in July.
With that I will now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the first quarter 2014 financial results and then discuss our 2014 guidance.
I'll address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance for each segment and provide commentary on the key areas or items where there's a notable variance from the prior year.
As a reminder the company completed its acquisition of Sealy in March 2013.
And results for the first quarter of 2013 reflect only a partial period of results from March 18 through March 31.
Consolidated net sales for the first quarter were $701.9 million.
Tempur North America net sales were down 5.7%.
As we previously communicated trends were somewhat soft in January but improved through the balance of the period.
Bedding net sales declined 2.5% on a unit decline of approximately 5%.
However it's worth noting that mattress and adjustable base units together were flat in the quarter with the decline being driven by traditional foundations a phenomenon we attribute to the significant floor model transition.
While we don't break out mattress performance specifically anymore given the magnitude of this rollout we felt it was appropriate to provide some color on the transitory impact we experienced in the period.
We shipped approximately the same number of mattresses in Tempur North America in the first quarter as we did last year.
However the mix of discounted floor model units was significantly greater this year.
Remember for every floor model we ship a floor model needs to be sold off at retail.
We replaced significantly more full value orders with discounted floor model shipments in the first quarter.
Excluding this discount effect our gross mattress sales in the first quarter were positive mid-single digits.
Sales of other products mostly pillows declined 37% and accounted for more than half of Tempur North America's first quarter sales decline.
By channel Tempur North America retail net sales decreased 3.2% and Direct net sales declined 35%.
Tempur International net sales were up 7%.
Bedding net sales increased 6.6% on a unit increase of 2%.
By channel Tempur International retail net sales increased to 4.6% and Direct sales increased 42%.
Sealy net sales were $363.2 million as compared to $46.7 million last year.
First quarter gross margin was 38.4% as compared to 48.3% in the first quarter last year.
As we stated on previous conference calls the inclusion of Sealy has altered the consolidated gross margin profile of the business.
On a year-over-year basis first quarter gross margin declined primarily due to a full quarter of Sealy results product and channel mix and a higher new product introduction cost.
These impacts were partially offset by lower sourcing costs and positive geographic mix.
On a sequential basis gross margin decreased to 38.4% from 40.2% primarily due to higher new product introduction cost and higher mix of Sealy sales.
These were partially offset by positive geographic mix.
Consolidated advertising spend which includes both national and cooperative was $73.8 million or 10.5% of sales in the first quarter.
Consolidated operating income was $62.4 million as compared to $44.5 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Operating income in the first quarter of 2014 included $7.4 million of integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Operating income in the first quarter of 2013 included $16 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Interest expense for the quarter was $22.2 million and the first quarter tax rate was 29.3%.
First quarter GAAP earnings per share was $0.44 as compared to $0.20 per share in the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.53 in the first quarter as compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.62 in the prior-year period.
Now I'll turn to cash flow for a brief review.
At the end of the first quarter inventory was up as planned due to the product transition as we were carrying full supplies of both the old and new product lines.
Receivables were also higher due to the timing of revenues in the quarter as we discussed earlier.
These 2 items were the principal factors that led to our slightly negative operating cash flow in the quarter.
We expect cash flow to be positive for the balance of 2014 and consistent with our full-year plan.
The company has consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.8 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.6x calculated in accordance with the company's senior secured facility.
A calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were $7.8 million.
Now I'd like to address our 2014 guidance.
Today the company confirmed financial guidance for 2014.
The company currently expects net sales to be in the range of $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion which reflects growth of approximately 1% to 5% compared to 2013 had we owned Sealy for all of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $415 million to $435 million.
And adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.85.
It's important to note that while our full-year financial guidance is unchanged our current view of the profile has slightly changed.
We currently expect our full-year 2014 net sales to be at the upper end of the guidance range.
In addition we currently expect our full year 2014 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share to be at the mid to upper end of their respective ranges.
In addition our guidance excludes any potential impact from the planned acquisition of Sealy brand rights in Japan and in Continental Europe as well as excludes the impact of ongoing integration costs related to the acquisition of Sealy.
We are planning for second quarter 2014 sales to be up slightly as compared to the first quarter 2014 sales of $701.9 million.
We expect floor model shipments to remain elevated in the second quarter as we complete all of the North American product launches.
As Mark indicated our in-store marketing investment will increase significantly in the second quarter and we also plan to increase our investment in advertising with the new creative.
As a result we expect our operating margin in the second quarter to be approximately 8%.
The majority of our investments in 2014 are first half weighted.
And therefore we expect operating margins to improve significantly in the second half of the year as floor model shipments and incremental in-store marketing investments diminish.
Through April we're tracking to these projections.
In considering our guidance it's possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequences of other risk factors that we've identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> The first question I had was on the product placement the new product launches.
We've been hearing that with the poor Q1 conditions in general that clearance sales were a little slow and that was slowing up the new product launches.
It doesn't sound though from your comments if you're behind plan you're behind plan by much.
I would just love some color on that.
Well there's no doubt that the weather did have an effect certainly at the beginning of the quarter.
And the transition as you know is not an event.
Obviously what we're talking about is what we've shipped to retailers.
Some of the retailers are pretty much 100% converted but many are not.
Many are in the middle of transition still in the process of selling off some of the floor models.
So it's a process which is ongoing and obviously was slowed to some extent by the fact that there was poor weather at the beginning of the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Super.
And then secondly if I could just ask about internationally where there was a positive surprise were those macro-driven weather-driven company-specific product marketing effort-driven? Any color.
And then you mentioned the areas that were strong.
I was wondering if any were particularly stronger than others.
There was some macro strength.
I mean -- and I'm talking here about Europe.
We've had pretty good performance in Asia for some time all through last year and we continue to have that.
Japan Korea Australia continued to be strong.
Where we had weakness last year certainly in the first part of last year most of last year was in Europe.
And we saw some improvement of that kind of from a macro level in the end -- in the fourth quarter of last year and we saw continuation of that and strengthening this quarter.
But a lot of what's been happening in Europe can be pointed very distinctly to -- for us I mean can be pointed very directly to activities that we've done.
In the U.K.
for example we've gained distribution that has had a material impact.
In Continental Europe we've been running advertising which is always effective particularly in the German-speaking countries.
And in -- and so -- and we introduced the new products.
We were participants in the -- in the big Koln Fair in Germany and new products had an impact.
So while their macro improvement was part of it a lot of it was due to activities that we did.
Our next question comes from Peter Keith of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Jon Berg on for Peter tonight.
My first question I wanted to focus on Canada I guess.
In looking at how strong your Sealy business is up there and the relationships you have at this point are you starting to see some more Tempur slots being allocated in some of your retailers? And if so how many have you picked up on a per store basis? I don't want to break it down into that level of detail but I will say that Canada -- I really think your question is on the money because Canada is a very good example of where Sealy's distribution and relationships and strength is greater than that of the legacy Tempur company.
And so that is an area where we have now a unified team working together on the Canadian business working with our retailers as a unified team.
And we believe that is going to have great promise and that we will see benefits of that this year.
But I'm not going get down to details by customer.
I will say however that is an area in which we do see some promise.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then we've seen your new ad spot on TV that features the Contour and the Cloud that looks good.
And I'm just curious what's the consumer reaction to this? And I mean to the extent that you can talk about it I mean is this going to be really the ad that you lead into the holidays with along with the Ask Me? Or what are your plans around advertising? Yes.
The ad that you're referring to is an ad which is -- let me just step back a minute.
As you know last year we went back to our Ask Me campaign in the fourth quarter and we've been running it ever since.
And we were -- as I -- and I'll talk in a minute about it.
We will continue with that going forward.
However during this month and this quarter this launch of Tempur products is quite unique for Tempur.
It is a brand-new look of the product brand-new characteristics of the product with brand-new features with the removable top and a washable top and a cooling layer.
So we really felt it was important to have an ad that just spoke very simply and very eloquently to the new characteristics of the product both for the consumers but also for retailers.
It was a -- this is the -- a very well done but matter-of-fact product commercial.
As we get into the second half of this month you'll see the new evolution of the Ask Me.
We call it the Ask Me campaign because it's made by the same people and it's made in the same tonality.
But it is a clear very logical and we're quite excited about it evolution of the ad which we think is very much more frankly it's more -- appeals to your heart and your emotions than to simply the matter-of-fact method of this other ad works for.
So what we see is that the ad that's running right now will continue to run because it's an important ad but it won't be the backbone of our strategy going forward.
What we think is the nice part about that ad though is it's designed and in fact been made in such a way that retailers can customize it to use for their advertising because it works very well with retailers to bookend it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I can just sneak one really last quick one in for Dale.
Dale it looked like the tax rate came in a little bit lower than what you guided the full year to on the last call.
Should we expect that tax rate to build through the year? Is there some change in thinking there? Yes on the last call we said that the tax rate for the year would be about 31%.
It did come a little bit lighter than that in the first quarter.
That was principally due to geographic mix with International being stronger domestic being a little bit softer and domestic being a higher tax rate.
So for the year I would think that the tax rate might come in a little bit from that 31% but not dramatically.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask a couple of questions on the guidance.
For the second quarter specifically just at a high level if you could help us think through this it feels like Tempur North America is moving in the right direction International's taking a step in the right direction.
But you're still making investments on the new product rollout and that's probably still pressuring margins.
Is that what the reason is behind the gross margin outlook being a little bit worse than what we have been modeling going into the quarter? Yes.
From the gross margin let's break it down into a couple of pieces.
From a gross margin standpoint at the beginning of the year we thought -- we said the first half gross margin would be about 40%.
So obviously the first quarter was 160 basis points less than that.
But keep in mind when we're talking on here we're talking pro forma.
So the integration cost was about 30 40 bps of that difference.
The balance though was in the first quarter we had some more floor models as Mark said the retailers are very excited about the new product lines not just Tempur but Stearns &amp; Foster.
And so we're getting more floor models than we had anticipated.
Also the Direct and this is a Tempur-specific item the Direct business and the pillow business are much softer than we expected.
Yes they started the year soft they continued to be soft it's something we're not happy about and we'll be turning our focus to those areas of the business with new products getting out.
But we do expect for the first quarter -- I'm sorry for the first half for gross margins to be slightly less than what we had anticipated at the start of the year.
We do think gross margins will improve some in the second quarter from the first quarter as we have continuing product rollouts.
But we'll be getting to the end of that and certainly another factor there is getting to the end of the closeout pricing on the old product line then working through the rest of the P&amp;L from an expectation standpoint.
In the second quarter we do expect to increase the advertising spend as a percent of sales.
First quarter advertising was about 10.5%.
We expect it to be higher than that in the 11% range.
Also the big outstanding expense in the second quarter is rolling out all the new POP that you saw at Vegas.
In the first quarter that new POP only a little bit of it was shipped because some of the big customers don't use their POP and the big customers were the first ones to start getting the new products.
But in the second quarter as the new products get broadly distributed there'll be a significant investment in -- isolated to Q2 around that POP that's driving the operating margin issues.
Also FX was pretty -- it was a factor in the first quarter very nominal factor in the first quarter but on a comparative basis FX should be worse in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's very helpful Dale.
And so just with that as the outlook for the second quarter you hadn't given second quarter guidance to us but we'll obviously be needing to go down if we go to your numbers.
For the full year you guys are saying that EBITDA and EPS should be towards the mid or higher end of your range.
What is it making you more positive on the back half of the year? Well I mean our plan all along was for the back half of the year to be much stronger from a revenue and a earnings perspective because of the impact of the floor models in the first half as well as the POP investment in the first half.
Keep in mind it's been a long time since we particularly on the Tempur business that we had this magnitude of a change in the line as in never.
And so we have to really do a significant expenditure to get the floors of the retailers POP to look like we want it to look and like you saw at Vegas in late January.
So the plan all along was once we got through this major investment in the first half that we would see much better performance in the second half and -- from an earnings standpoint and the new products will deliver growth in the second half and we'll start getting leverage on the business as we move forward in the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I can just squeeze one more question in on pillows.
Not something that we usually talk about on earnings calls but it was a pretty big drag here in the first quarter.
Do you think that will continue to be a headwind or was there something unique here in this quarter? The -- to be -- the truth is it has been a headwind for a while.
And our pillow business has declined.
And there's some reasons for this.
The way that retailers use them as gifts when people add incentives people when they buy beds and so on is diminishing.
But the fact is our pillow business is a very important part of our business very much as -- consumers have a very higher awareness of our pillows.
And the people who have them are as rabid fans as the people who own our mattresses are.
And so it's something that we're going to put great focus on.
Obviously we put a lot of focus on these new Cloud and Contour beds from the Tempur part of the portfolio in this last period.
In the second half of this year you will see a range of new pillows which we're quite excited about which we'll be launching.
But it will be a start of a renewed focus on pillows.
It's a very important part of the overall portfolio both because it's good sales good margins but also very iconic and part of our product differentiation.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly Dale I just want to make sure I understand the 2Q operating margin guidance.
The 8% is a GAAP or a normalized margin number? That's a pro forma number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Perfect.
And then can you maybe give us a little color on the operating margins and gross margins by segment for quarter 1? Yes I'll give you the GAAP numbers that you'll see in the Q that will be filed here in the next day or so.
From a Tempur North America gross margin 40.3%; Tempur International 59.7%; Sealy 29.9% and again these are all GAAP numbers.
Operating margin Tempur North America 5.2%; Tempur International 22.3%; and Sealy 6.4%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just real quick for 2Q can you maybe talk a little bit about by segment to topline-wise will you expect Tempur and at least International end up wise? Are you still expect another strong quarter in International? Yes I mean we would expect International in 2Q to kind of have a similar performance to what it had in Q1 which was up 7% up 5.8% on a constant currency basis.
We expect Tempur North America to turn very positive and be up mid-single digits to high-single digits.
The trends that we saw in the quarter the gross sales that I mentioned is -- that was up mid-single digits in the first quarter as we get through the floor model rollout we expect to see Tempur North America to pop to the high-single digits here in the second quarter.
Sealy was 3% growth in the first quarter ballpark.
The domestic business was up 7%.
So we -- with some FX issues on the international side we saw a good growth for Sealy in the first quarter and we expect that to continue with their new products.
The Stearns completing its roll out Optimum being rolled out so we are looking for a strong performance across the portfolio.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
On the branding rights in Continental Europe I know you said not to expect too much here in 2014.
Is it -- is it possible to flesh out your expectations for what we may see there on the topline or earnings line in 2015? It's too early to talk about that now.
We really haven't even -- the deals are not signed yet.
Not closed.
Not closed yet.
Sorry they're signed but they're not closed.
I mean there's still closing conditions.
But we will talk about it more during the year.
But I think that what you do need to bear in mind for Europe is that there's a very small a very very small business there right now.
And what we anticipate doing is launching new products under the Tempur -- I'm sorry under the Stearns and Sealy brand names through the infrastructure and the sales organization that we have there and that will kick in we believe in 2015 in reality.
We'll give you a better feel of that second half of the year.
It's too early to do it right now.
But as Dale said it's not going to be a material contribution this year.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the new products is it possible to isolate them and just give an indication? You obviously expect to see an increase in velocity.
I know it's early but do you think you're seeing that increase as anticipated? As I said it's -- we're in this transition period and what data we can get is always anecdotal.
We can speak to retailers we can look at what's happening.
And the anecdotal data we're getting is good.
The anecdotal data we're getting is that some of the key products like the Rhapsody Luxe and the Cloud Elite are being very well received.
So we're seeing good things.
It's just -- we're not in a stage here where we can actually use any...
Transition.
Yes it's a transition.
I mean it's -- and remember as I said earlier the transition takes time.
It takes time because even a retailer who is putting products on the floor will often have at the same time the old product being sold at a discount right beside it.
So it takes time.
But the -- what we don't have quite a numeric or statistical data what we do have is anecdotal and that's what we're sharing with you right now.
Okay great.
And then maybe just more of a qualitative comment then on the -- you mentioned that RSAs are more enthusiastic so far about the new products.
Could you say in what way they're more enthusiastic or what's different about these new products that RSAs are gravitating towards in versus the old products? Well I mean let me do -- I mean they're positive about all 3 sets of products that we've launched.
The new Tempur products the new Stearns products and then the Optimum ones.
The new -- I'll do them in reverse order.
The Optimum ones while they're just shipping right now they like the look of them they like the feel of them they think the aesthetics are very good and I think they're slightly redesigned and they're taller and people really like that.
That's positive RSAs like that.
The Stearns &amp; Foster are considered to be among the most beautiful products that we've ever made and frankly anybody's ever made.
There are real -- people really really think they're beautiful and they love them and they display well the hand.
The feel of the products for the consumers is really good.
The Tempur products are the most dramatic change from what was before compared to what they're replacing.
And the RSAs very much like the aesthetics they very much like the logic of the sequence -- the way that the products fit together.
So you can logically step a customer up from the entry-level products right through to the highest end products and with a good logical case for each step.
But perhaps the thing that they have been saying to us that they find the most desirable about these new products is the demonstrability.
One of the -- as you know very well these products are designed to have the covers removed which allows the consumer to look underneath the hood and put their hand on the cooling layer and touch the Tempur foam.
And that demonstrability -- we're hearing time and again is something that really captures the attention of consumers but also is something for an RSA to do to kind of show why this bed is different than the other ones on the floor.
Our next question comes from Denise Chai with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So first in terms of International it looks like the gross margin was down year-on-year.
Can you talk a little bit about what was pressuring it? Yes on the International business gross margin was down a little bit year-on-year.
A combination of factors some new product rollout the Breeze rolling out.
So we're -- as Mark mentioned in his comments the Breeze was very well accepted getting more floor placements than expected.
We didn't have really have a new product last year at the same time.
Also some geographic mix we had some new distribution.
So a variety of factors around just putting on a little bit of pressure on the International business as well as actually a little bit of cross currency mix that doesn't flow through the top line but flows through the cost side because of the different foreign currencies we have to deal with internationally and the product being produced in euros and the relationship of euro versus the pound or the yen or the Australian dollar or Korean won.
So the cross currency gave us a little bit of pain as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And just sticking with International.
Can you kind of size up a little bit your like Sealy business in Europe then kind of compare that to Tempur-Pedic? For example how many doors are the 2 brands in? So the first approximation there isn't any -- there's very very little Sealy business in Europe.
Last -- at the Investor Day last year in September we said that if you look at Europe Tempur is about 10x bigger than Sealy in Europe.
And that's Continental Europe.
However that equation has magnified because one of the reasons why it was important for us to get control of Continental Europe was the Sealy business in Europe through the licensee was quickly eroding.
And there's -- that's why we view that business as one that's really a from scratch organic growth story.
But on the -- a lot of opportunity.
Yes one that we feel pretty good about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one more question here.
You said that you're also starting to deliver Tempur-Pedic and Sealy on the same trucks.
So just how widespread is this? And can you talk about the difference it's making to your business? It's relatively small right now it's in one of the markets.
But we do anticipate that it's going to roll out going forward.
And it has a number of benefits.
One is that it frankly it means that we can fill trucks up fuller which is a good economic thing but it also means that we can have frequency of delivery which is very desirable to retailers which allows them to have more frequent deliveries and less inventory.
And -- but what it requires in order to do it is obviously the same truck but it requires us to have places where we can put the inventory together and so that is part and parcel of what Dale referred to when he talked about the evolution of the distribution network is what we're doing.
That initial test while relatively small has been quite good.
And so we're in full speed ahead on doing that through the whole country.
But having said that it's going to -- this is a job that will take a couple of years.
It's not something that you can just switch on.
Our next question comes from Jessica Schoen with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> My first question was on the granularity you provided on the gross margin.
I was wondering if there's any way you could kind of help us think about what -- how big are the impacts that are more unusual versus what are the more lasting impacts? Yes well the bulk of the gross margin -- you're talking here in first quarter first half? Research Division</strong> Yes that's correct.
Okay.
The bulk of the impact is related to kind of one-off things which is this massive product rollout.
We have -- just the product discounts in the first quarter was a couple hundred basis points of 200 to 250 basis points of gross margin hit.
On top of that we also had -- people don't recognize it but Mark mentioned that discounted product being sold out all of our old product was at a close-out pricing.
And that was another 150 to 200 basis points of gross margin erosion because all of the old product that we sold was sold at a discount also.
So I mean those 2 factors alone if you look just at the Tempur North America business year-over-year its gross margin was down about 500 basis points.
If you take those 2 items and you isolated just the Tempur North America those 2 items were significantly more than the total -- the Tempur North America's gross margin was down.
So as we get through this transition period and the close-out pricing goes away the floor model discounts go away we start seeing a very quick reversion back to normal gross margins for Tempur North America as well as the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then my other question was just an update on cost synergies throughout the rest of the year.
You were just mentioning that one truck delivering both products what other things can we kind of be thinking about for the balance of 2014? Well cost synergies covers a lot of areas.
We have cost synergies around SG&amp;A.
We have cost synergies that -- a lot of the big cost synergies we got immediately and last year was around sourcing.
But we continue to see ongoing cost synergies on the sourcing side of the business.
We're seeing cost synergies in warehousing.
We're seeing cost synergies in manufacturing.
We're seeing cost synergies in media where we're getting much better pricing because of the combined buys.
When we first announced this deal we thought there would be about $40 million of cost synergies last September.
At our Investor Day we updated and said we now believe that we'll get an excess of $70 million of cost synergies and potentially as much as $100 million in cost synergies.
For this year 2014 we're looking for the cumulative cost synergies to be up as much as $40 million and that's in less than 2 years of having the businesses together.
As we're moving forward this continued increase in cost synergies a lot of that's coming from distribution warehousing shared manufacturing but this what Mark was specifically talking about would fall into the distribution side and that's a cost synergy that will continue to build over the next couple of years as it gets fully implemented.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to start with a couple of big picture questions.
I think earlier you guys had mentioned that you're expecting to be at the high end of your guidance range for sales and towards high end on EBITDA and EPS.
And it sounds like and correct me if I'm wrong here but it sounds like you guys are getting a little bit more or better visibility with regard to the business going forward in terms of how you're seeing things play out this year.
One is that the case or am I misreading that? And two from a consumer perspective are you seeing some of the volatility that we saw in the last few years start to stabilize from 4Q into 1Q? Yes let me hit a couple of areas and then I'll have Mark chime in to a couple of areas.
From a visibility standpoint or a confidence level yes I think that our visibility and confidence level is improving.
And if we just look at the first quarter our sales in the first quarter came in a little bit better than we expected.
International did better particularly in Europe.
Sealy business revenues came in a little bit better than we expected.
Specifically the Posturepedic business continues to perform very well.
Stearns &amp; Foster turned positive in the first quarter.
So we're seeing good traction there in the Sealy brands the Tempur business.
Tempur North America business came in pretty much where we expected it to but it had the biggest transition but we did see improvement throughout the quarter in that business.
January affected everybody from a weather standpoint.
But we saw a significant improvement in the Tempur North America business as the quarter went on.
We're getting more placement of floor models than was expected as it -- in each of the products.
In the Tempur products in the Stearns &amp; Foster products in the Optimum retailers were asking for more floor models which portends good things for selling later on.
We're seeing some incremental distribution and we're feeling very confident and feeling more visibility around the revenue.
From an earnings standpoint we're getting a little bit more visibility with more time going by we're getting a better understanding getting a better fix on where the synergies are where the cost -- having more floor models means more floor model discounts so there is cost with that.
And ideally what we'll see is volume additional volume later in the year that gives us the volume leverage and more improvement.
Mark other things you want to add? That's right.
I mean I think that we -- there are -- another quarter's worth of trends that we have particularly in International and in Sealy that we can project.
And then we have the new products that have been well received.
I mean clearly as we've said all through we don't statistical data on how they're selling but we have very good indications.
So standing here today we have that much more knowledge than we had when we made the last projection.
So we do have more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just secondly in terms of the traffic at the retail level has that stabilized or is it still pretty choppy week-to-week at this point? It is choppy.
It continues to be choppy.
And I think that we and the retailers are all hoping for a good Memorial Day.
I know that it should be good.
People are hoping it's going to be good.
I know there's a lot of excitement about it but it continues to be choppy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one in terms of the incremental slots you guys picked up.
You mentioned that you have gotten some additional distribution.
Is there a way to quantify how many additional slots you've gotten from the Tempur North America launches? Is it 5% 10% more slots? I'm not going to put a number on it right now.
I mean I think the thing is that it's 7 products replacing 6.
So in some ways -- and most of our customers have taken the 7.
So that's one way to look at it.
But you can't just use that as a -- I'm not encouraging you to use that as a metric.
What we had done is when we did the analysis we used that kind of statistical model to say what we thought the first round of floor models would be what we will get in the first rollout in the first quarter.
And that has -- we have -- that has been higher than we anticipated.
But that's just comparing a model to an actual.
So to be honest with you right now I wouldn't put -- I can't put a good figure on it.
I think we're going to end up with more I just don't know how many.
I mean more -- by the way I mean more in aggregate is what I'm getting at.
More in aggregate.
I know we're getting more floor models of this product.
I mean more in aggregate.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One question at -- getting to the top half or the top end of the sales guidance range it's going to be up high-single digits in the second half.
Do you have a view on what the industry is going to be or are you expecting any assist there or is this your own initiatives? These are really -- I mean this is our own projections.
I mean sort of fundamentally baked into it is it's something like a 3% growth for the industry.
So implicitly we have that as part of the inputs that we feed into the models that we say what we think we're going to have.
So yes there's sort of implicitly that but it's more a buildup from the bottom of what we think we're going to sell of each product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I was a little surprised on your second quarter discussion on sales that it's going to be up modestly given kind of -- seems like we had to push forward of weather.
Any commentary around that? Well we didn't specifically try to factor a catch up of weather.
Our North America business -- Sealy had a very good first quarter.
Yes there was lot of bad weather in the first quarter but we saw good trends improving trends as the quarter went on.
From a Tempur North America standpoint we saw the business come in essentially where we expected it to.
But we're looking at -- we didn't specifically say "Oh we'll see a little extra boost in the next quarter from a -- because of delays from weather." But we are looking for significant increase in changing growth [ph].
Yes because normally the second quarter is smaller than the first.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's -- maybe I was confused.
You were talking about a sequential move in revenues? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sort of flat sequentially? Okay.
Then that was my mistake.
Yes we were expecting growth in revenue sequentially which is counter to the normal seasonality.
Our next question comes from Joan Storms with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> So I had -- so we've seen in several different retailers the beds on the floor but I'm still sort of awaiting on the POP.
So that is -- so the beds rolled out first then the POP comes with more of -- sort of towards the holiday as we get in there or? Rolling out right now.
I mean the thing that we -- the bulk of the POP is rolling out now.
And we expect it to be in places not everywhere but in the majority of places by -- the majority of the places where it's going to be by Memorial Day.
That is the target.
And it's a big part of what Dale was talking about earlier which is our investment in this quarter versus last quarter in terms of in-store marketing.
There are some of the biggest retailers that don't use our POP.
But that is an important part.
It will be rolling out and it's a significant investment that's going to happen this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's all in the selling expense.
And then just quickly on the -- you bought first Sealy the Japanese licensee and now Continental Europe.
What -- can you quantify like how much that cost on a relative basis compared to -- obviously you're going to benefit a lot more on the sales side but can you quantify on a cost basis with that -- what those things cost? The acquisition of those of each of those again they haven't closed yet.
So we haven't paid anything yet.
But the acquisition on these is immaterial to the business.
We have a pretty good understanding of formula of how to do these things and it works well.
The detailed terms have not and will not be disclosed.
But the -- from a business -- what the business is spending for it will be immaterial.
Our next question comes from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions have been asked and answered.
But I guess I may have missed it but did you give your expectation for input cost inflation for the coming year? Any key items to call out there? We didn't give a specific number.
We do have every year when we put our plans together put in an expectation for -- even if the market is telling us that commodity cost will be down we still assume it's going to be up.
We have assumed increases in steel.
We've assumed increases in the chemicals that we buy.
We have seen some market increase but it's well -- at this stage it's within what our expectations are that were built into the year.
Our next question comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of modeling questions.
Last quarter you talked about the advertising ratio coming in at 10.5% to 11% for the full year.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Where are you thinking currently for the full year and are there any meaningful variations by quarter on that line that we should take into account? We still think advertising will be in that range 10.5% to 11%.
There's 10.5% in the first quarter.
Second quarter will be probably slightly above that range as we put a big push behind the new product launches once they get -- you don't want to put a lot of money behind it until they get broadly distributed.
But as we're getting here in the next couple of weeks we'll see an increasing push on the advertising on the new products as well as the new creatives that Mark was talking about.
Then through the back half of the year we should see advertising kind of back in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just so I'm clear the expenses related to the point of purchase materials that are rolling out is that isolated in the selling and marketing line? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's kind of a largely second quarter event? Yes you'll see a step up a sizable step up in selling and marketing spend in the second quarter related to the POP rollout.
And then in the third quarter we will revert back to normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know this has been touched on several times I apologize for coming at it again.
In terms of gross margin for the year and then maybe some color first half versus second half you said Dale earlier you expect some sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Is that right? And then how are I guess you thinking about the full year? I think last quarter you've kind of indicated 41% for the full year? Right.
When we gave the guidance for the year we said it's 41% for the year we would see the first half ballpark around 40% second half ballpark around 42%.
Again that was a pro forma so it didn't have integration costs in it.
But what we're talking about right now is actual GAAP [ph] it has integration costs in it.
But we do expect to see improvement in the gross margin as the year goes on.
We'll see some improvement in the second quarter.
We'll see a significant improvement in 3Q as we get beyond these floor model rollouts and closeout pricing.
We'll see a big step up in gross margin through the year.
We would still expect the overall gross margin to be in that close to 41% probably maybe a little bit less than 41% but in that ballpark.
I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mark Sarvary for closing remarks.
Thank you.
And we look forward to talking with you all again in late July when we will host our second quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mark Rupe.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Sam.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company's website at tempursealy.com and filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our performance in the second quarter and then discuss the progress we're making on our key strategic growth initiatives in 2014.
I will then turn the call over to Dale who will provide details on the second quarter financial results and 2014 guidance.
Our second quarter turned out largely as we expected.
Sales growth accelerated slightly more than we had planned but we invested heavily in new products advertising and in-store marketing support and earnings were approximately in line with our plan.
In total our second quarter sales were $715 million and adjusted EPS was $0.39.
Tempur North America returned to growth with sales up 10%.
Our new TEMPUR-Cloud and Contour beds have been well received by consumers and retailers and sell-through momentum is building.
Demand for our TEMPUR-Breeze beds and the new adjustable bases were also higher in the quarter.
Tempur International's performance was in line with our expectations with solid sales growth in Europe Asia and Latin America.
Sales were up approximately 5% on a constant-currency basis with direct sales driving a majority of the growth.
Sealy's performance was also consistent with our expectations.
Strong demand for the new Stearns &amp; Foster offering and continued growth of Posturepedic led to double-digit growth in the U.S.
Sealy also saw improved performance of Optimum adjustable bases and Sealy-branded products.
Sales outside the U.S.
declined slightly with both Canada and South America slightly below last year.
Now I'd like to discuss the progress we're making on our 4 key strategic growth initiatives in 2014.
The first initiative is product innovation.
Our goal is to provide our consumers the best bed and the best sleep of their life and to provide our retailers a complete range of brands products and price points that meet the needs of every consumer who comes to their store and thus drives their growth.
We've talked a lot about the importance of investing in product innovation to drive growth.
When the competitive environment changed in 2012 we said we needed to increase the scale and pace of our investment and to work with retailers to provide unique and consumer-valued products that allowed them to improve their average retail selling prices.
In the past 2 years we have delivered on this systematically overhauling our Tempur North America offering with innovative products that command considerably higher average retail selling prices as well as a much higher adjustable base attachment rates.
Today nearly all of Tempur North America's sales are from products introduced in the last 24 months.
Through this heightened focus and investment in innovation we have returned Tempur-Pedic to a position of strength in the marketplace.
The benefits of innovation are not isolated to Tempur.
During the second quarter we completed the rollout of our new Stearns &amp; Foster collection with 15% more placement than last year.
Feedback on sell-through and consumer acceptance has been excellent overall and in particular for the upper end Lux Estate and Lux Estate Hybrid Collections.
At its current pace Stearns &amp; Foster will eclipse the previous annual sales record.
We also completed the rollout of our new Optimum in the second quarter.
Customer response remains very good and sales trends are improving.
We also continue to see strong growth from our Posturepedic innerspring and hybrid collections even though they are now in their second year.
We're encouraged by this and are optimistic that it shows the potential for lengthening the product refresh cycle.
Frequent refreshes are a significant cost burden to both manufacturers and retailers and are often of very little benefit to the consumers.
Internationally we continue to roll out TEMPUR-Breeze beds in several European markets and will launch Breeze in Asia during the third quarter.
Overall Breeze has been very successful and word has been launched that it has quickly become a strong seller.
But to date it has been more cannibalistic with existing Tempur mattresses than we had originally anticipated.
At next week's Las Vegas Bedding Show we plan to introduce a new line of Sealy-branded value products.
We have streamlined the collection and significantly enhanced its design and construction.
We're also introducing new Tempur-Pedic pillows to North America.
We expect both introductions to drive sales improvement in the coming period.
In addition to product innovation we're also very focused on improving our marketing effectiveness which is our second strategic initiative.
This includes advertising as well as in-store marketing and direct sales.
In the second quarter our advertising investment grew by 7% primarily driven by an increase in Tempur North America.
TV ad impressions grew at an even faster clip as we reinvested the synergies realized from the combined media buy.
We began airing new TV ads nationally featuring real Tempur-Pedic owners and our new mattresses and adjustable bases.
While it's still early the initial response has been quite good with key metrics such as store-locator visits improving markedly.
We're also supporting Stearns &amp; Foster Optimum and Posturepedic with consumer advertising including TV digital and print.
Our in-store marketing investments were elevated in the second quarter as we rolled out new point-of-purchase displays to support all of our new product launches in North America.
These investments were planned and they will be lower during the remainder of the year.
So as you can see we're very committed to innovation and marketing and we'll continue to make decisions that ensure our investment dollars in these areas are maximized.
And that ties to the decision we made last month to exit our U.S.
innerspring component business and to sell the related assets.
The transaction will provide us greater flexibility to invest in innovation and brand-building in the future.
Our third strategic initiative is new market expansion including our expansion into new international markets.
During the second quarter we completed the acquisition of Sealy brand rights in continental Europe.
And during the balance of the year we'll be rolling out a number of Stearns &amp; Foster and Sealy hybrid products to retailers in several key markets.
As Dale will discuss in a moment while we don't expect much contribution from this acquisition in 2014 the growth opportunity is significant and we anticipate greater contribution in 2015.
We also completed the acquisition of Sealy brand rights in Japan in early July.
We absorbed a small amount of ongoing business as well as integrated certain sales and marketing functions of the former licensee into Tempur Japan.
Transition of customer relationships and integration has been in line with our expectations.
We see many long-term revenue synergies from this combination.
Sealy's customer relationships and distribution footprints are highly complementary to Tempur Japan and this has already resulted in some early wins where Tempur has secured new distribution through leveraging Sealy's existing relationships.
We are also advancing several other initiatives across the world and will be sure to update you at the appropriate time.
And lastly our fourth strategic initiative is our commitment to building a world-class supply chain that is easier to do business with.
We continue to improve our distribution and warehouse network and are capturing greater cost synergies as a result.
Equally important however we are also improving our customer service levels specifically order management and delivery performance.
We announced shipping Tempur and Sealy products together on Sealy trucks in 4 U.S.
markets and plan to layer an additional market in 2014 and beyond.
We're also making good progress with our category management initiative.
Because of the breadth of our portfolio we're in a unique position to use data and analysis to help our retailers optimize their merchandising and promotion to maximize their sales and profitability.
Before turning the call over to Dale I'd like to make just a couple of closing comments.
Q2 turned out largely as we expected.
Our plans called for growth to accelerate and this occurred across our segments.
We are pleased with the trends we are seeing and we're very focused on executing our strategy to build on this positive early momentum.
That said our plans for the balance of the year call for our growth on a consolidated basis to continue at rates similar to the second quarter and the market environment globally is still far from robust.
Traffic continues to be fairly stagnant in the U.S.
and demand remains uneven in parts of Europe and particularly challenging in Germany and Benelux.
We look forward to providing you an update on our progress when we report again in October.
With that I'll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the second quarter 2014 financial results and then discuss our 2014 guidance.
I will address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance of each segment and provide commentary on key areas or items where there's a notable variance from the prior year.
Consolidated net sales for the second quarter was $715 million up 8.2% versus last year.
Tempur North America net sales were up 10.1% and were driven by strong demand for our new Cloud and Contour products as well as our BREEZE beds and adjustable bases.
Bedding net sales increased 12% on a unit increase of approximately 9%.
Sales of other products declined 16%.
By channel Tempur North America retail net sales increased 12% and direct net sales declined 8%.
Tempur International net sales were up 9% and on a constant-currency basis up 5.4%.
Bedding net sales increased 10% on a unit increase of 1%.
By channel Tempur international retail net sales increased 5% and direct sales increased 40%.
Sealy sales increased 6.8% driven principally by double-digit growth in the U.S.
Bedding sales were up 8% and other products declined 17%.
By channel Sealy retail net sales increased 9%.
Second quarter gross margin was 37.5% as compared to 38.6% in the second quarter of last year.
On a year-over-year basis second quarter gross margin declined primarily due to product and channel mix and unfavorable foreign exchange.
These impacts were partially offset by the lack of purchase price allocation inventory adjustment associated with the Sealy acquisition that was recorded in the second quarter last year.
Looking at operating expenses consolidated advertising spend which includes both national and cooperative increased 7% to $78.4 million and was 11% of sales.
Other selling and marketing expenses increased 15% due to higher in-store marketing investments to support the new product launches.
Consolidated operating income was $50.3 million as compared to $44 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2014 included $5.2 million of integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2013 included $11.9 million of transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
Interest expense was $23 million and the second quarter pro forma tax rate was 28.2%.
Second quarter GAAP earnings per share was a loss of $0.04 as compared to a loss of $0.03 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.39 in the second quarter as compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.36 in the prior year period.
On June 30 2014 we completed the sale of our 3 U.S.
innerspring component production facilities and related equipment to Leggett &amp; Platt for approximately $48 million.
The net value of the assets disposed was approximately the same as the total deal consideration.
However this did not include the associated goodwill value allocated to these facilities.
In short when we acquired Sealy in 2013 the divested assets were written up for book purposes to market value.
And as a result we did not incur loss on the divested assets but did incur a $20.4 million loss on the disposal of this business which is essentially the noncash write-offs of the allocable goodwill.
For tax purposes the tax basis of the assets carried over to our books in the Sealy acquisition and accordingly we incurred a $29 million gain on the asset sale for tax purposes.
During the third quarter we will pay approximately $11 million in taxes on this business disposal.
Now I'll turn to cash flow for a brief review.
At the end of the second quarter our inventory and receivables were up slightly as planned due to the growth of the business and the bills of Stearns &amp; Foster and Posturepedic inventory in anticipation of launching products into Europe in the third quarter.
These were offset by higher payables which were up due to timing.
Operating cash flow during the quarter was $74 million and free cash flow was $65 million.
The company has consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.7 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.3x calculated in accordance with the company's senior secured facility.
A calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
Now I'd like to address our 2014 guidance.
Today the company updated its financial guidance for 2014.
The company currently expects net sales to be in the range of $2 925 000 000 to $2 975 000 000 which reflects growth of approximately 5.5% to 7.5% compared to 2013 had we owned Sealy for all of 2013 and adjusted EBITDA in the range of $410 million to $430 million.
Adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.85.
Our sales guidance is based on improved trends within our North American business both Sealy and Tempur as well as our recently acquired Sealy brand licenses in Japan and continental Europe partially offset by Tempur weakness in Central Europe.
Our earnings outlook factors in very limited contribution from the Sealy International acquisitions and that our higher-margin International business is being pressured by the weakness in central Europe.
Our guidance is pro forma and does not include costs related to the disposal of the 3 U.S.
innerspring component facilities or transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
For the third quarter we expect consolidated sales to be up approximately 8% on a year-over-year basis.
We expect our third quarter operating margin to be approximately 12.5%.
As the majority of our investments in 2014 were first half weighted we expect our second half operating margin to increase significantly as compared to the first half operating margins.
Through the first 3 weeks of July we are tracking to these projections.
And considering our guidance it's possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequences of other factors we have identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company's control.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to just first ask about the guidance and the change in the guidance.
It's clear that you've raised the revenue outlook but by the same token it looks like you've nudged down the EBITDA outlook.
Could you just help to bridge that change? Sure.
On the revenue side a couple of pieces.
Number 1 the Sealy Japan and Sealy Continental Europe license acquisitions.
Continental Europe we're starting that from scratch but we do expect based on our strong retail relationships to see that business start to pick up and contribute in the second half.
Sealy Japan we are picking up a run rate business.
And so the combined impact of those 2 license acquisitions in the second half is $20 million to $25 million of revenue upside but essentially no EBIT.
Those are going to be a little bit lower than normal Tempur International gross margin businesses but there's startup costs associated within from an operating standpoint that we're not anticipating EBIT on that business plus the gross margins on that business will be a little bit lower particularly in Europe as we're putting new business in place and sending out floor models.
We have anywhere that sells it have to get floor models so it really is a startup on the -- as we said on the rest of the business we are looking at continued strong performance in Sealy U.S.
and continued strong performance in Tempur North America.
Tempur International is doing well in Asia it's doing well in Southern Europe U.K.
We're seeing some good growth in South America but the weakness in Central Europe which essentially is the German-speaking corridor Germany Austria Switzerland Benelux which is a significant portion of the Germany or the European economy is -- has turned.
It was bad last year it started to show some signs of improvement earlier this year but in the second quarter it actually started turning back down.
And so we're anticipating that continues through the second half.
From a revenue standpoint that's the key components there.
From a margin standpoint or what we're looking at in the second half in terms of profitability of the business we are anticipating that on the U.S.
side we're going to see significant improvement in profitability from the first half as the floor models go away as we get through the transition aspects that we were going through particularly on the Tempur business which continued well into the second quarter.
With the higher volume we'll start getting volume leverage on the U.S.
business.
That's going to be partially -- that improvement is going to be partially offset by the weakness in Central Europe which is a very profitable region for us as well as ongoing difficulty around the currency mix that we're getting in our International business right now.
While we got positive top line from currency we're getting a bad currency mix on the cost side.
So that's what's muting the margin.
From an EBITDA standpoint I would point out that the decline from what we anticipated before is about $5 million lower in EBITDA and that's really 2 main pieces.
One is with the continued outlook that we had and really the outlook was in place in the guidance we had before but we've made the determination that it does not look like the business is going to make the minimum requirement on our long-term incentive plan for this year so we -- that reduces or affects the outlook by approximately $4 million for the year.
It affected the second quarter by $3 million.
Also the transaction of selling the spring plants takes away some dods[ph] from the business a couple of million of dods[ph].
So those 2 things have affected the EBITDA outlook [indiscernible] the business fundamentals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'll just ask maybe 1 follow-up here.
A common question that you all get when you do a big launch can you help us to think about in 2Q was there any quantifiable revenue number that you'd tell us for sell-in that we should think of as really being unique to this quarter and something that wouldn't necessarily continue going forward? I mean the way I think about it Brad is that the bulk of the growth came from increased sales through increased sell-through.
We did have sell-in obviously but the sell-in in the second -- the new models in the second quarter was roughly the same as the new models in the second quarter last year.
So year-over-year that was a relative wash.
The lift we're seeing is due to sell-through.
I would add to that Brad if you think about sell-in yes the retail just want to have a base level of inventory so that when a consumer walks in they can sell it.
But you know what they had a base level of inventory of the old product.
So they have to sell out the old product which we're not getting any sales on and then they rebuild their inventory with the new products.
So for us it's a wash.
We get no sales as they reduce their inventory and then we get sales as they put that same base level of inventory back in.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And in light of it being such a strong revenue quarter I just figured I would I ask.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I am confused a little bit Dale maybe just I didn't -- I couldn't get the weeds right.
I think your revenue guidance for the year went up by $75 million to $125 million from where it was and the earnings stayed the same.
And I think I got the idea that there's some issues in central Europe but I'm trying to understand maybe the other parts of the business and why the earnings are not coming forward.
Is that -- do I have it right? Well the way I look at it Budd we've -- because that in April or May 2nd I guess it was we thought like we were at $2.9 billion.
And when we said we're going to be -- we're right at the high end of that range of the old range.
So we felt we were at $2.9 billion we're adding roughly about $25 million so I viewed as adding $25 million to $75 million.
$25 million of that approximately is Japan and Continental Europe for the license acquisitions which doesn't give me any profitability in this first 6 months start up period and then -- so really we're talking about 0 to $50 million of benefit for improved Tempur North America improved Sealy U.S.
and International growth.
But the international growth being our most profitable segment is being -- continuing to get hit negatively by cross-currency.
It's continuing to get in the central European region the Germanic region being hit negatively.
We're getting some bad mix internationally where we're getting growth and lower margin international segments and we're losing out on business in one of our most profitable segments in the world.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So okay.
So just before I give my follow-up so last year in the third and fourth quarter if I remember right the operating income for Tempur International was about $52 million $22.9 million in the third and $29.4 million in the fourth.
So you're thinking that will be down this year when you reported for a combination of those the bad guys and currency and perhaps some of the other pressure you're quoting is that what you're thinking? Yes.
Tempur International profitability is going to be down.
The gross margin is going to be down year-over-year 300 basis points or so.
And from of course we'll try to manage operating expenses but most of that gross margin is going to fall through.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful Dale.
And my last -- my follow-up question then is we enticed you last time to sort of giving us the operating margin by segment.
Can we do that? And gross margin also.
Absolutely and this is on a GAAP basis.
So Tempur North America for the second quarter 3.5%.
And I'll just draw out the reminder all of corporate is in that and a lot of Sealy corporate expenses moved into Tempur North America between last year and this year.
Tempur International at 17.5% and Sealy at 6.2%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And gross margins? Gross margin.
Tempur North America 39.7% Tempur International 58.5% Sealy 29.9%.
Our next question comes from John Baugh of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I want to just jump in to ad spend.
One of the thoughts there in the second half and maybe preliminary into 2015 and any medium changes there? As we said in the comments our ad spend was up in the first half and we expect to continue the rates we're spending in the second half at the same ratio.
It's important to note on the ad spending that we have been able to get some quite measurable synergies out of the combination of the 2 -- of our buy.
Frankly we renegotiated it and we have more GRPs than simply the increased spending would represent.
So we're actually quite pleased with what we're getting and so that's good we're getting more impressions.
What is quite encouraging is that we can quickly see that hitting our direct business.
So for example our weekly site traffic is up something like 15% year-over-year since June since we started running the new ads.
Our store-locator visits are up nearly 70%.
And this applies to Tempur but it also applies to Stearns &amp; Foster.
So we're seeing some good response to this in a very measurable sense.
And then in terms of the advertising spots that we're going to use we launched a series of new ads to announce the new Oslo [ph] products for Tempur.
We then had a set of new ads that we ran just before the end of the second quarter and we got some new ads that we're running right now.
And we're very pleased with the response that we're getting from these new ads.
We are getting actually very positive response measured response test response but also consumer and retailer response.
So what our plan is for now is that we're going to continue to run these spots for some time.
They're good and they're working.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
Then my follow-up is -- and you've given a lot of color on gross margin channel mix and all these things but I was wondering within Tempur North America in the quarter was there any appreciable mix of products sold that influence margin or was that in line with expectations or better than expectations? Yes.
In the second quarter from a Tempur North America standpoint.
As I mentioned from a negative standpoint we did have some ongoing transition effects where the transition -- just quite honestly and we said this on May 2nd the transition was more complicated and took longer than we expected.
It continued -- the transition effects continued into May and so that was a factor in the overall second quarter performance versus what we thought it would be.
It did take us a little bit longer.
Where we saw some benefit in revenue came in better adjustable attach rates now.
So we saw upside revenue in a very low margin part of the business.
So adjustable margins are much lower than mattress margins.
So we saw a continued increase in attach rate Tempur-Up really starting to get traction.
But overall those margins are not the same as selling mattresses.
Although they rate the AUSP for the retailer [indiscernible] Yes absolutely.
And they're a very important part going forward.
They're a good margin they're just not as good as the mattresses.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And so the unit column and just to be clear on Tempur North America that's got foundations in it or maybe another way to ask it just what were fewer mattress units in Tempur North America year-over-year Q2? The 9% is mattresses and foundations so the mix within that is less flat foundations more adjustable foundations.
With virtually every mattress that's sold there's a foundation.
So we had good growth in mattresses in the second quarter.
If you look at that 9% adjustables was a little bit better than 9% growth mattresses just a little under 9% growth flat foundations were just down a little bit of growth.
But because of the mix change very low low single digits.
Our next question comes from Josh Borstein of Longbow Research.
Just on the gross margin could you help us a little bit with the second half what the expectations are? I know we talked about a 42% consolidated level what are the assumptions today? Yes.
From a -- right now what we would say from a first half to second half recently we thought it would be about 42% but this first half came in lower.
The second half expectation would be that gross margins will improve half-over-half tune of about 340 basis points.
So for the year or for the -- in the second half we're looking at about 41.5% and a bit -- which would give us about 40% for the year so just slightly lower than what the prior expectations were and that's really a function of the combination of the new international Sealy business being a little bit lower margin.
Also the central European negative influence there.
But from a -- looking at the pieces we expect Tempur North America's gross margins to be up dramatically in the second half in the neighborhood of 550 basis points.
And as the floor models go away and you start getting volume leverage Sealy margin should be up again.
Significant reduction in floor models and some volume leverage where Tempur International is going to be down in the second half versus the first half.
Again central Europe pressure as well as adding revenue -- the new Sealy revenue at lower gross margin rates.
Okay.
And will Tempur International have negative sales growth in the second half on a constant-currency basis do you think? No no.
We will see growth in our Tempur International business.
The profitability will be down because of currency but we'll still see some top line currency benefit would be our expectation right now based on currency rates.
But the cross currencies you got to remember our cost internationally is -- at least our product costs is DKK which is tied to the euro.
And so what happens is depending on what's happening in the relationship of the euro currency versus the pound or the yen or the won or Australian dollars that's where we get cross currency issues from a margin standpoint.
But we do anticipate growth in Tempur in the second half in International.
Okay great.
And just to make sure I heard correctly Dale you said for the -- these expectations for gross margin around 40% for the full year? Yes.
Okay great.
And then if I could sneak one more in.
On the earnings guidance do you expect -- still expect to be around the midpoint as you had expected last quarter? Yes.
Since we re-did the revenue model of the business we completely re-did the relationships based on our latest greatest data et cetera.
We're at the low end of the guidance we expect to be at the low -- of revenue guidance we expect to be at the low end of the earnings guidance.
If we're at the high end of the revenue we expect to be the at the high end of the earnings guidance.
So we're giving you a range because right now we're not -- that's what we think.
We've got roughly $1.5 billion a little over $1.5 billion of revenue still to go in the second half.
And the $50 million range is about 3% so that's some puts and takes ability but we've retied the model directly to those revenue points based on what we see as the outcome.
So I'm not saying -- sitting here today I'm not saying this is where I think I'm at in the range.
I'm giving you a completely new range and I'm going to be somewhere in it.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question about Sealy in Europe.
You referred to the U.S.
business being double-digits and some weakness there in Europe.
How much within Sealy does non-U.S.
business represent? And I believe there's a Posturepedic launch you had mentioned coming in Europe in the third quarter.
How long will it take for that to potentially impact the revenues there? We are launching in Europe in the third quarter Posturepedic and Stearns &amp; Foster.
They're starting from 0.
Very tiny amount.
I mean you...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's what you're referring to earlier.
I ask [indiscernible] And that's going to -- let me just clarify because this will be important when we announce the third quarter.
That revenue is going to show up in Tempur International and we'll give you some color on how the Sealy licensees did but that -- because it's fully integrated over there and we're just building on the Tempur infrastructure that revenue's going to show up in Tempur International and not be attributed back to the Sealy segment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Second question the other products in the Sealy and Tempur down in the quarter I know these are small numbers.
What's kind of your outlook in the second half there? On the Sealy other products we would expect that business to go back to growth.
That's primarily Comfort Revolutions.
We had some timing disconnects last year versus this year in terms of -- it's a small business growing business and so if you get a big order movement from one quarter to another it can still effect that kind of play.
But we expect for the back half and for the year Comfort Revolutions to show good growth.
On the Tempur business that's pillows that's some of the other accessories that's an area we've been struggling and...
In Vegas next week we'll be launching a range of 3 new pillows which is -- the mattresses was our first area of focus but now the pillow business is not where it needs to be and we're very focused on that and will be for the next period.
But the new products that we're launching in Vegas are the first foray into addressing that issue.
Our next question comes from of Jessica Schoen of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the guidance for operating margin on the third quarter of 12.5%.
Can you talk about some of the moving pieces in SG&amp;A to be aware of in that context? Yes.
I mean in comparison to the second quarter from an advertising standpoint we're going to continue to keep the pedal down on advertising.
Other selling we'll see some improvement in other selling.
There is still store POP going out as was anticipated.
But from a quarter-to-quarter standpoint we'll see some improvement there because a lot of it shipped in the second quarter but some of it does still continue to go out in the third quarter which will then give you more benefit in the fourth quarter from a leverage standpoint.
With higher volume we're expecting to see some leverage on the other components of SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a follow-up on the Sealy International question.
In addition to the $20 million to $25 million from the licensees which sounds like it will be included in Tempur International what's assumed in the guidance for how the other Sealy International regions? It sounded like they were under pressure this quarter? What's assumed in the guidance for those going forward? We would expect some -- essentially the current trend to continue.
I mean obviously bulk of Sealy non-U.S.
is Canada.
Canada as a market has been weak and under some pressure.
But also if you look in the -- by channel Sealy Direct that is primarily Argentina that business was down a little bit but if you -- Argentine currency has dropped dramatically so a lot of that decline is currency-related.
But because the currency is under so much pressure obviously consumers there are not spending like they would before.
So that's really the International business where Sealy is Canada Mexico and Argentina predominantly.
And we don't see any change from kind of where they've been.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then finally you mentioned on the transaction selling the component facilities that you would see a little bit less D&amp;A from that.
Any other income statement items to be aware of where that could have an impact especially if you're sourcing those components like externally? No.
Really the primary thing is some D&amp;A goes away but that effectively kind of becomes part of the -- what was the cost of the product.
By and large that D&amp;A is a separate component but part of the overall cost so that -- it shifts from D&amp;A to regular cost built into the price that we're getting from Leggett.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First question.
I guess just a point of clarification Dale if I heard you correctly the revenue from the Sealy license acquisitions will be in Tempur International? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just want to make sure.
Just for context how big is your central European business from a revenue standpoint? Well we don't break down our international revenue by country but Germany is by a great large margin the largest economy in Europe.
And if you think about central Europe in total where you're talking Germany Austria Switzerland Benelux Nordic that are all very influenced by Germany that whole region is seeing softness.
I mean that's a significant chunk of Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if overall Tempur International is call it I don't know between $450 million $475 million in revenue that's roughly $150 million? I'm just trying to ballpark it.
Yes.
I don't want to get to that level but Europe is roughly 2/3 of our International business and so that's -- you're in the neighborhood.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
The premium segment the north of $2 000 price points it looks like that grew again this quarter.
I guess that makes it 5 quarters in a row.
Did that growth accelerate? Well yes.
I mean all of the products that we sell basically are above $2 000 for Tempur and Tempur is growing very well.
So now that's bound to be the case.
But yes it did and I think that part of what we're really focused on is the AUSP and driving -- especially for Tempur.
I mean obviously we've got a whole range of products but the job of the Tempur portfolio is at that high-end.
And one of the things that we've seen with the new product range is that the -- if you look at kind of like-for-like products people are essentially trading up.
The average price is going up because the products that are being sold are not a direct replacement for the ones they replaced.
They're often the one that's a half a step up from the ones they replace.
The net of that is the average selling price is going up which obviously is good for Tempur but it's good for the retailers.
And also Joe we did see improving trends through the quarter but April and early May was still part of the transition.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's exactly what I was trying to get at did it accelerate throughout the quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then lastly I guess the operating margin even though gross margin was call it 100-plus basis points below I guess what we and you guys were expecting from early May the operating margin on a pro forma basis was actually pretty close to the 8% guided.
So it sounds like things are trending pretty nicely on the G&amp;A side of things.
Was there anything that was unusual in the quarter that led to that reasonable operating margin number? Well yes.
I mean there is a $3 million benefit on LTIP.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jon Andersen of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
Just an update on cost synergies what you're expecting for the full year and over the next couple of years? And then Dale if you could just update if necessary some of the guidance items below the operating income line? And I'm focused a little bit here on the tax rate which has trended lower in the first half and also D&amp;A in the context in your comments? Yes.
No that's great.
From a synergy standpoint our goal through the year was to be at $40 million of synergy be on accumulated basis this year.
We still feel very good about that.
By 2016 we said we would have $70 million still feel very good about that.
So the synergies are working.
We did say that we would reinvest along the way some of those excess synergies from what we had previously expected.
For example the synergies that we got in media from the combined buy we're absolutely reinvesting that.
Rather than taking those savings to the bank we're increasing the amount of advertising at similar dollars.
Yes good question.
On some of the other components below operator margin just run down a list here.
CapEx for the year $55 million to $60 million so I think last time we said $60 million so it's trending a little bit lower than that but somewhere in that $55 million to $60 million dollar range.
D&amp;A for the year I now expect to be at $88 million and that's a little bit lower than before and that's again partly influenced by the Leggett &amp; Platt purchase of 3 of the spring facilities.
Interest for the year we're looking at about $90 million.
Tax rate for the year we do continue to see some benefits in taxes.
So for the rest of the year we expect the tax rate to be around 29.5% which it'll net [ph] better than we thought before.
And the tax rates continue to be a little bit better.
It's partly a function of country mix it's partly a little bit better manufacturing tax benefit than credit and expected a little bit better R&amp;D credit than we had thought we would have.
And now I'd like to turn the call back to Mark Sarvary for any closing comments.
Thank you everybody.
We look forward to talking to you again in late October when we host our third quarter earnings conference call.
And obviously we'll see a lot of you next week in Vegas.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Tempur Sealy Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Rupe.
You may begin.
Thanks Michelle.
Thank you for participating in today’s call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor’s provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company’s expectations regarding sales adjusted EBITDA earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company’s business.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company’s SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company’s press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is posted on the company’s website at tempursealy.com and also filed with the SEC.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I will provide an overview of our performance in the third quarter and then discuss the progress we’re making on our key strategic growth initiatives in 2014.
I will then turn the call over to Dale who will provide details on the third quarter financial results and our updated 2014 guidance.
Our performance during the third quarter was strong.
We executed well on our strategic initiatives which led to better than expected sales and a solid increase in earnings.
In total our third quarter sales increased 12.5% with double-digit growth across each of our three business segments and adjusted EPS increased 21%.
So far in 2014 we’ve generated a $181 million of operating cash flow and have lowered our total debt by a $190 million.
Tempur North America performed very well and we’re encouraged by the growth and share gains we have seen.
Sales were an all-time quarterly record up 16% in Q3 and after starting the year in negative territory are now up 7% year-to-date.
The new products are doing very well and our focus on adjustable basis over the past year is paying off.
The new TEMPUR-Cloud and Contour beds have reignited growth of Tempur-Pedic.
It’s been the fastest growing new products in our history.
The innovative easy refresh top cover and the integrated smart climate system have been clear differentiators and received well by consumers and retailers.
Another important development has been the growth in adjustable bases.
Our adjustable base sales have been growing for Tempur-Pedic in each of the past 10 years where we’ve seen a major acceleration in 2014.
We attribute this to our newly expanded offering and a greater selling focus by retailers and RSAs.
During Q3 orders for adjustable bases were unprecedented especially around our Labor Day live it up promotions.
Now this could result in product availability challenges and we did our best to minimize impact to our customers during the period and we have since meaningfully stepped up our inventory.
To give you some context our tax rates in Q3 were nearly doubled the rate of last year.
Tempur North America’s margins are also getting better both gross and operating margins.
However they were somewhat lower than we expected due to the significant increase in adjustable base mix.
We’re also pleased with the growth of Sealy.
Sealy sales increased 11% in total but were up 16% in the U.S.
Like Tempur Sealy is gaining share and in the U.S.
is up 11% year-to-date.
We attribute the success to our strong product range and increased distribution to some of our most important customers.
Posturepedic which was introduced last year continues to do very well and the new Stearns &amp; Foster Sealy and Optimum products that we introduced this year are also growing nicely.
However Sealy’s margins were lower than our plan.
This can be explained to a large extend by manufacturing efficiencies resulting from near record demand.
And I want to thank our entire operations team for the long hours and hard work that was put into meeting this demand.
Still we need greater consistency and predictability from our supply chain operations.
We have recently begun a major initiative to improve productivity and flexibility across the entire Sealy manufacturing footprint.
Tempur International also had good growth although slightly lower than we had planned.
Tempur sales were up mid single-digits with growth in Asia and Latin America.
Europe however remains uneven.
And we saw further weakness in Central Europe in markets like Germany and Benelux.
As we discussed in July we acquired the Sealy brand rights in Japan and Continental Europe.
And in quarter three we began rolling out Stearns &amp; Foster and Sealy hybrid products to a select number of customers in Europe.
These rollouts have been slower out of the gate than we had expected which led to some pressure on profitability in Q3.
That said we remain confident that there were significant opportunities and we expect better performance with more meaningful sales and earnings contributions in 2015.
I’ll now talk briefly about our four key growth initiatives which as you know are product innovation marketing our desire to be easier to do business with and international expansion.
As we look into 2015 we see another strong year of innovation.
Our plans call for several Tempur and Sealy product line introductions that we believe have the potential to generate significant incremental growth.
Like we did with our 2014 launches we’re working with our key retailers and using consumer research and testing to ensure their success in the marketplace.
I’m not going to provide specific details on these new products tonight for obvious competitive reasons but look forward to sharing them with you early next year.
In addition to innovation we’re also making good progress with respect to our marketing initiatives.
During the third quarter we maintained a healthy rate of advertising and are planning for solid rate of investment in the fourth quarter.
Our new national TV ads which feature real Tempur-Pedic owners with our new mattresses and adjustable bases have been very effective.
And together with the double-digit increase in TV ad impressions they are driving traffic into retail stores as well as increasing website traffic and retailer locator searches.
We also continue to support Stearns &amp; Foster Optimum and Posturepedic with consumer advertising including TV digital and print.
The third strategic initiative is our commitment to being the easiest to do business with.
We continue to improve our distribution and warehouse network to capitalize on shipping Tempur and Sealy products together and have recently announced the integration of our Tempur and Sealy U.S.
sales forces; both initiatives will help improve customer service.
The organization has worked hard over the last 18 months to integrate the two businesses.
And following the combination of the sales forces the consolidation will be effectively complete.
The integration overall has gone very well and cost synergies continue to be captured at a faster rate than projected.
Our fourth strategic initiative is international expansion in new and existing geographies.
I just mentioned our recent acquisitions of Sealy brand rights in Japan and Europe and we’re also advancing several other initiatives around the world.
Earlier this month we amended our credit agreement to give us greater flexibility to pursue acquisition opportunities including licensees distributors and joint ventures.
To summarize we entered 2014 with an aggressive plan to reposition our company for growth by investing in new products and marketing.
It required a significant investment but it is paying off.
It’s great to be back in the position where we’re reporting double-digit growth.
However we have work to do in improving our margins and that will be a key focus going forward.
We look forward to providing you an update on our progress when we report early next year.
And in addition we plan to present a thorough review of our long-term strategy and outlook at our next investor day in New York on February 18 2015.
With that I’ll now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I’ll focus my commentary on the third quarter 2014 financial results and then discuss our updated 2014 guidance.
I will address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance of each segment and provide commentary on the key areas or items where there’s a notable variance from the prior year.
Consolidated net sales for the third quarter grew $827.4 million up 12.5% versus last year.
As Mark stated we’re very pleased to report double-digit growth in each of our three business segments and are particularly encouraged by Tempur and Sealy’s U.S.
performance.
Tempur North America net sales increased 15.8% and were driven by strong demand for our new Cloud and Contour products and adjustable bases.
Bedding net sales increased 19.5% on a unit increase of approximately 14%.
Within Bedding sales of adjustable bases were up over 50%.
Sales of other products declined 22%.
By channel Tempur North America retail sales were up 18% and direct sales declined 16%.
Tempur International net sales were up 10.9% and on a constant-currency basis up 10.7%.
Growth was driven by a combination of higher Tempur sales and initial sales from Sealy Japan and Europe.
Bedding net sales increased 11% on a unit increase of 11%.
By channel Tempur International retail sales increased 10% and direct sales increased 35%.
Sealy sales increased 10.9% driven by strong growth in the U.S.
Bedding product sales were up 11% and retail channel sales increased 15%.
Third quarter consolidated GAAP gross margin was 38.5% as compared to 40.6% in the prior year.
Gross margin declines in Tempur International in Sealy were partially offset by an increase in Tempur North America.
By segment the primary drivers were as follows: In Tempur North America gross margin increased primarily due to operational efficiencies offset partially by a higher mix of adjustable bases.
In Tempur International gross margin declined due primarily to the Sealy related start up costs in Europe.
In Sealy gross margin declined due to operating inefficiencies exacerbated by a greater than anticipated surgeon demand as well as unfavorable foreign exchange and certain one-time items.
We had anticipated our Q3 gross margin to be approximately 41%.
The variance versus our expectation can be attributed approximately 50% to a higher mix of adjustable bases 25% to Sealy operational inefficiencies and 25% to Sealy start up costs in Europe.
From an operating expense perspective the higher sales resulted in operating expense leverage and we were able to offset most of the gross margin decline.
Consolidated advertising expenses of $92 million were 11.1% of sales versus 12% last year and other operating expenses were also lower as a percentage of sales.
Consolidated operating income was $87.1 million in the third quarter of 2014 and included $10.5 million of integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition.
This compares to the operating income of $81.2 million in the third quarter of 2013 which included $8.5 of transaction and integration cost.
Interest expense was $25.3 million and included a $3.3 million accelerated amortization of deferred financing cost related to a $125 million voluntary debt pay down of the company’s Term A and Term B loans in September of 2014.
The third quarter tax rate was 37% and reflects a discrete tax item associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings.
Pro forma tax rate was 28.2%.
Net income attributable to non-controlling interest reduced our net income by $400 000 in the third quarter versus no impact in the prior year.
This reduction is related to our Comfort Revolution joint venture.
As you know the results of Comfort Revolution are fully consolidated into our reported results.
And to the extent there is net income generated it is adjusted to reflect our 45% ownership interest.
In Q4 we expect a $1 million reduction in net income attributable to non-controlling interest.
Third quarter GAAP earnings per share was $0.60 as compared to $0.65 per share last year.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.88 in the third quarter as compared to adjusted EPS of $0.73 in the prior year.
Now I’ll turn to cash flow and balance sheet for a brief review.
Operating cash flow during the quarter was $109 million and free cash flow was $95 million.
The strong cash flow generation in the quarter allowed for us to voluntarily pay down $125 million of Term A and Term B loans in September 2014.
Year-to-date operating cash flow is $181 million and free cash flow is $151 million.
At the end of the third quarter our cash conversion cycle improved seven days due primarily to improved payables and inventory.
At September 30 2014 the company had consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.6 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 4.1 times calculated in accordance with the company’s senior secured credit facility.
The calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
Now I’d like to address our 2014 guidance.
Today the company updated its financial guidance for 2014.
The company currently expects net sales to be in the range of $2.970 billion to $3 billion.
This reflects growth of approximately 7% to 8% compared to 2013 had we owned Sealy for all of 2013.
And adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $405 million to $415 million and adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.70.
The factors driving are updated guidance are as follows.
So far in October we’re growing well but at a slower rate than we were in Q3.
Our customers and industry sources report that sales have been slower in October.
The high-end of guidance assumes a pick-up in sales related to Black Friday and the low-end reflects a continuation of these slower trends.
We expect gross and operating margins to continued to improve in Q4 but they will be lower previous expectations.
On a year-over-year basis our updated guidance imply sales growth for Q4 in the range of 7% to 11% with adjusted EBITDA growth in a range of 11% to 21% and adjusted earnings per share growth in a range of 23% to 38%.
Our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS guidance is pro forma and as noted in the press release does not include costs related to the disposal of the three U.S.
innerspring component facilities transaction and integration costs related to the Sealy acquisition discrete tax item associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings or certain non-recurring interest expense and financing cost.
And considering our guidance it’s possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions and competitive activities or the consequences of other risk factors we have identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company’s control.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
Michelle? (Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
You’ve talked a lot about gross margins and some of the things that happened in the quarter.
Are these problems going to persist into next year? Do you think you can solve most them towards the end of this year? Any kind of view on that would be helpful.
Yes Keith.
If we look at three pieces; so in Tempur North America fundamentally there is a mixed change.
We had very good performance in Tempur North America both on the top-line and on the margins.
The mix of adjustable bases was significantly higher than what we had anticipated.
As you know adjustable bases have a little bit lower margin so that just muted that.
I would say we hope that one continues because bottom-line it’s a good thing to sell more adjustable bases.
On the Sealy side where again we had very good growth but we had a surge in demand that exacerbated some manufacturing inefficiencies that’s something that we absolutely are focused on that we’re actually absolutely going to be working hard on.
We want to improve the performance there.
It will take some time to get it completely to where we want to be but it’s underway and we should see some gradual improvements.
Certainly there are couple of one-time items in the quarter that we would not expect to repeat.
FX also particularly the Canadian dollar to U.S.
dollar relationship continues to give us some gas there that doesn’t look like it’s getting better anytime soon.
So we do expect improvement in Sealy.
And from a Tempur international standpoint key thing there is that was different than what we expected was just the timing and the rollout of the new Sealy product lines in Europe.
And the thing that caused some delay and some issue there was getting our contract manufacturers up to the speed getting them efficient.
We’ve made some progress there; we think that we’re on the right track; it’s not completely where we needed to be from a throughput and the volume and the cost standpoint but it’s making good progress.
We would expect that to be much better as we get into next year.
The adjustable base sales surging numbers is that both in Tempur-Pedic as well Sealy? Yes it was up in both but predominantly Tempur was where we saw a huge increase in adjustable bases.
And you’re reporting that as in Tempur North America segment is that correct? Correct.
And then final question on advertising is that something you’re looking to provide some up or down over the next quarter or two? Over the next quarter we’re going to continue on the cadence that we’ve been on which is a function of both.
We’re seeing the benefit of three things one is that we are investing and we’re doing it on what we call an always on basis where the ads we always have ads on we had tried spiking it but it’s much more efficient to keep it always on.
Secondly the new ads are working really quite well we’re very pleased with them.
And third is that we have been affected when we combined the buying with Sealy and getting an improved GRPs per dollar and we’re seeing the benefit of that.
So we expect that to continue for the fourth quarter.
The next year we will continue it at the same ratio.
And as we grow our sales we anticipate the growth of the advertising at a commensurate rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon.
Just a couple of follow ups on sales I guess first with respect to the fourth quarter Dale or Mark could you give us little more color around what you’re seeing in terms of the run rate or the outlook by segment? As Dale said we obviously had a very strong growth in the third quarter; we’re seeing good growth in the fourth quarter; it shifted at a lower rate than it was.
And we anticipate good growth for the fourth quarter in Tempur and Sealy and most of International as we’ve said.
There is some weakness in Central Europe and frankly that continues.
But in general we are expecting growth across the board.
Great.
And then what was the revenue benefit from the licensee acquisitions in the third quarter and what’s the expectation for the fourth quarter? Yes.
This is something on a regular basis we’re not going to comment on but because it’s new we will continue to provide some color.
We said at the second quarter call that we expected 20 million to 25 million in revenue and we thought that would be kind of in the 10ish million in third quarter and 15ish in fourth quarter; we did about 5 in the third quarter.
In fourth quarter right now based on where we’re at we would expect that to be closer to 10.
So it is starting to ramp we are starting to get a better flow of product but we still have some issues around getting product produced in the contract manufactured getting us to the right quality et cetera.
So we’re being very picky very exact about our needs.
And if that means a little bit slower rollout that’s what it is but that also means that you’re doing -- we’ve made some investment in infrastructure et cetera that is not getting revenue against it.
So that’s why it’s causing us a little bit of a gas here in the second half but going into next year we see there is a big opportunity.
Great.
And is that for both Japan and Europe or was that just Europe specifically you’re talking about? Yes.
I mean we had some start-up issues in both Japan and Europe but predominantly where we are having some contract manufacturing start-up concerns is in Europe.
Okay.
And just one more for me if you don’t mind.
With oil prices having pulled back could you just comment on what you’re seeing out of your chemical suppliers and any potential relief on raw material costs that you might realize in coming quarters? Yes that’s a great question kind of interesting.
Certainly with oil pulling back things like diesel are a little bit better.
But interestingly enough as we’ve talked over the years the chemicals that go into polyurethane form do not always trend exactly with where oil is and what oil is doing.
We’ve actually seen some price pressure in the chemicals that we buy or the foam both on Tempur and Sealy foams and that’s partly because of some global supply constraints on those chemicals right now.
So even though oils pulled back a little bit we are seeing some commodity price pressure on the chemicals.
Our next question comes from Peter Keith of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
I guess to follow-up on Keith’s question regarding the manufacturing issues related to Sealy clearly it sounds like there is going to be some gross margin pressure in the fourth quarter.
Is this a type of issue that could extend with gross margin pressure into 2015 as well? It’s likely to have as Dale said that the initial start-up is going to continue into the fourth quarter.
And it will carry on into the beginning of next year.
But what we do believe is that the projections that we have had for this there is nothing that we’ve seen that’s systemic.
The changes what we thought was going to happen.
It’s just going to take a little longer.
Having said that the margins of the new Sealy products are all going to be identical to the Tempur margins just by for reasons of their construction where they sold and so on.
So we haven’t broken that out fully.
But they’re consistent with our -- there is nothing we’ve seen that’s changing our expectations in the long journey; it’s just a question of roll out right now.
I think I’ll Mark here.
I was asking about the Sealy U.S.
business is I think where you’re just talking about the international business there? Forgive me.
I was talking about international.
What -- sorry repeat your question forgive me? Yes I’m sorry.
The gross margins were pressured with Sealy U.S.
because of some of the constraints in manufacturing with the surge in demand.
Is that issue is really going to continue in Q4 is that going to continue into 2015? No I mean I think that the -- as Dale said it’s an area of focus it’s an area that we -- it’s something that we really are focusing on.
It will continue to some extent in Q4 which is what we said.
And what we anticipate though is that this is something that’s going to -- the specific issues that are all going to continue.
But the continuous improvement of the productivity and flexibility is something that we see over the period of 2015 and something that we actually hope to be a benefit is something we see to be a good opportunity.
Right now though we’re just trying to deal with what has been an issue that was caused by a variety of -- to some extent one-off issues but that doesn’t really matter.
We want to get this as more predictable and more flexible going forward and ultimately we believe that there is opportunity there.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then so clearly sales are very strong so we’re happy to see that.
I guess you did mention some production issues with the adjustables and Sealy because of the strong demand.
Does that have an impact a negative impact on revenue at all with Q3? I mean possibly a bit but not a lot.
I mean to be honest as I said our operations team were very hard on both the Sealy and the Tempur side.
There were some shortages -- frankly we did have shortages of adjustable bases.
And as I said the demand was really very very good much ahead of what we expected.
And we were able to meet the vast majority of the requirements.
And we have built up our inventory now in anticipation that that fundamental trend is going to continue.
So we may have lost a little but not much.
Okay.
And then last for me; just circle back with you on the Sealy Europe a little out.
I understand you want to keep it slow could you give us maybe a qualitative view on the initial retailer interest and maybe how the demand for slots is coming relative to your expectations? It is really early.
So what I’m going to give you is really anecdotal.
I mean in fact it is very early.
Retailer reaction has been quite positive.
The retailers like it they like the positioning they like the products they like the positioning and they like the fact that they are quite unique.
And the positioning is being they always been and best known American brand is working well.
In the stores where we have had the product long enough to kind of really tested over a period we’re getting sell through very consistently what we expected.
But quite frankly I don’t expect you and I’m not even projecting from that because it’s too little of a test and too short of a time.
But on the other hand nothing we’ve seen is in consistent with what we expected.
Our next question comes from Sam Reid of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you so much for taking my questions.
I actually have two U.S.
specific questions here.
First would you be able to comment specifically on the performance of Optimum adjustable basis during the quarter.
I know there was something you called out last year and I’m just kind of looking for more follow-up there.
And then secondly would you be able to provide some color with respect to how much incremental Stearns &amp; Foster placement impacted your business during the quarter? Thanks so much.
On the Optimum front Optimum overall with the re-launch Optimum is doing well.
Optimum adjustable bases are growing but frankly they’re growing of the small base.
So it’s a small part of the overall it’s still -- to be honest it’s still an opportunity that we foresee.
It’s something that we believe there is a great opportunity there we know that it’s customers who have it value it but it’s something that still we’re growing but it’s still a small number.
As far as the Stearns &amp; Foster placement is getting the placement is growing we’re growing -- one of the reasons it’s driving our growth is we are getting more distribution for Stearns &amp; Foster and so that has worked well.
Thank you so much.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from Josh Borstein of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my questions.
On the supply issue with the bases you talked about you said you didn’t think it had that much impact on the top-line.
Did it have any impact on margins or was there any issues with expedited shipping or other things that led you to evident a negative impact on the margin? Sure.
Josh this Dale.
The surge in demand on the adjustable is absolutely we had some expediting costs; we had some extra shipping costs; we had some moving product around the country costs.
There was some extra costs there and that’s all part of the -- when we talk about simply North America we saw a very very good improvement in the profitability in Tempur North America; we saw good margin improvement.
That mix shift part of that mix shift relationship of adjustables being a much higher percent of the business an element there was also we had quite a bit of expediting costs in the third quarter to meet the demand.
So that will ease as we move into the fourth quarter and we expect Tempur North America margins to continue to improve.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And so switching to Europe you talked about some continued weakness in Central Europe which you pointed out last quarter.
Could you maybe just walk around some of the major geographies including Asia and tell us what you saw in the quarter? Asia is obviously a very big place.
And there are different pockets within it.
But bottom line is Asia is doing well.
Korea for example is doing very well.
Japan is doing well.
So the bottom-line is Asia is doing well.
There are pockets in Europe that are doing quite well.
Spain for example is doing well.
And the UK is doing well.
But it’s the same ones that we said last time Germany and Benelux the German speaking countries are slower.
Okay.
And just a final one for me just looking ahead into 2015 a little bit.
I realize we can expect some investments in the first half of the year as that’s ongoing and one of the four key strategic growth initiatives but should we expect the same level of investment as we did -- in the first half of ‘15 as we saw in the first half of ‘14? And by investments do you mean the new products? Yes.
You have to differentiate a little bit between the two lines here for the U.S.
because the Sealy Stearns &amp; Foster have a more regular cadence.
This year we had a big growth in Stearns &amp; Foster and we won’t repeat that next year.
On the other hand there are other products that we will -- I don’t want to go into details on this but there are other products that we will be launching on sort of two year cycle that will affect Sealy going forward.
Tempur on the other hand had a very major introduction this year in 2014.
And as I said in my comments we have some very -- some new products that we’re very excited about starting in 2015.
However in terms of scale it’s going to be smaller than it was this year.
In terms of scale of new product launch investment.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Jessica Mace of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi.
Hi Jessica.
My first question is on the international business I was wondering if you could talk about how the margin performed in the quarter excluding the impact of the rollout for Sealy in Europe and Japan.
Yes.
Basically our international business excluding the rollout and start-up of Sealy in both Japan and Europe international business met our expectations from a margin standpoint.
The top-line is a little bit less than what we would have expected but if you strip out those profitability was still down in our international business and that was predominantly related to FX as we’ve talked about before.
So the cross currency et cetera but was built into our revised outlook and expectation and it came in where we thought it was.
The thing that was different was the cost and the timing of the Sealy rollout was what came in different than what we expected.
Understood.
And then just to clarify that I understand what I heard before it sounds like those Sealy businesses in Japan and Europe are longer term the margin outlook is a little bit lower than existing Tempur International business.
Is there anything you can quantify for us on that differential? Yes.
The gross margins on the International Sealy business for Japan and Europe would be a little bit lower than the Tempur margins.
However from an operating margin standpoint we would expect them to be EBIT contributive; we would expect them to almost the similar end margin rate to our current International Tempur business because they’re being built on top of an existing infrastructure.
So we’re not having to add all the infrastructure that’s in place.
So the gross margin can be a little bit lower but you are not having as much a lot of incremental operating cost.
So you get you end up with very good EBIT numbers.
Make sense.
And then just finally on the commentary on October so far.
Is there anything you can point to that’s going in the category or that might be short-term in nature that could give you any visibility into these churns picking up? Not really.
I don’t think there is anything fundamental happening in the industry.
I think that was just -- we had and the industry had a very good Labor Day and that maybe having something of an effect in the short-term.
But I’m not hearing anything; I have not seen anything that makes me think there is some systemic change.
I think maybe one thing is over the last several years there has been a kind of shift in emphasis in the fourth quarter towards Black Friday.
So the whole industry -- we’ve seen some change in the seasonality where more of the quarters occurring in the November late November early December time period.
So I mean that could be it.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
This is actually [Bobby] filling in for Budd; I appreciate you guys taking my questions.
Hey Bobby.
Dale can you give us the margins gross margin and operating margin by segment as you typically do? Absolutely and keep in mind these are GAAP.
So Tempur North America in the third quarter gross margin 42.8% and Tempur International 56.6%; Sealy 30.9%.
So Tempur North America was up year-over-year about 80 basis points; Tempur International was down a little over 300 basis points; Sealy was down about 370 basis points.
From an operating margin standpoint Tempur North America and this includes corporate expense 11.3% which is up 390 basis points year-over-year; Tempur International 17.2% which is down about 500 basis points and Sealy 8.3% which is down about 200 basis points.
All right.
Thank you.
And then based on kind of your earlier comments on about the adjustable basis.
Is it roughly a 125 basis point drag my quick math is going to get to me to in the Tempur North America margin? Well we said it was about a 100 basis points on the company.
So on the Tempur North America it’s more than that.
So I mean so the business versus what we expected we were down about a couple of 100 basis points and about half of that was because of the adjustable.
So it’s the big impact on Tempur North America.
Can you quantify that or can you help me out get a number wrapped around that from that to try to get to maybe a number on that? Based on the size of Tempur North America relative to the whole business you’re looking at a diluted Tempur North America’s gross margins about 250 basis points or more.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then just one additional one on the margins can you maybe walk from last year’s 60% gross margin International to this year’s 56.6% and kind of bucket out what impact currency had in some of the other moving parts in that? Yes.
I mean basically the big moving parts are the Sealy launch and that -- the Sealy launch was actually in the neighborhood of including the floor models and some of the startup costs et cetera that was almost 280 basis points of the year-over-year decline in Tempur International and then FX.
The cross currency impact was in the 40 basis-point range; a little bit of country mix in there.
On the year-over-year basis the biggest impact was the cost associated with starting up Sealy.
I appreciate that.
Thank you and that’s it for my questions.
And best of luck going forward.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our quarter comes from Karru Martinson of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
I was wondering if you can provide a little color in terms of sell-through at the price points.
Are you seeing consumers continuing to trade up or is there resistance at their additional levels? We’re seeing good response to Tempur products.
And the Tempur average unit selling prices are doing very well in fact they’re going up.
So we’re not seeing resistance per se.
I mean what I don’t think one can deduce is that the whole market is moving up.
I don’t think one can say that the entire market is moving up.
But if you look at our portfolio our portfolio is.
And obviously some of the Stearns &amp; Foster products are doing very well and the high-end Hybrid Posturepedic for example are doing well.
So -- but I think frankly that’s because we’re gaining share.
I don’t think that’s a fundamental thing that the industry or the consumer as a whole are moving up.
Okay.
And when you look at the capacity constraints that you experienced here will see a little bit going forward here.
I mean are you seeing any force pace or spots being taken away from your or how are the retailers handling those constraints? No I mean we haven’t been if anything we’re gaining we’re gaining.
So I think one of the things that we’re very focused on kind of the core component of the strategy of the combination of Tempur and Sealy is to have a line of products that are complementary so that they don’t duplicate each other.
And so I think so far as we have a range of products we take pride in the fact that everyone has a role in it; it satisfies the need of a different consumer.
And if we can do that as well as take the average unit selling price up and we’re moving in the right direction.
And you combine that with an increased proportion of products being sold with adjustable base that takes it higher the average ticket price.
Thank you very much guys appreciate it.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Lynn of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi this is Kathryn I’m on for Denise Chai.
I was wondering just on Germany and Benelux I know it’s been soft in for a while but has there been any improvement? And just why do think the market is still so soft there? It’s quite -- it’s obviously a big country and a variety of reasons.
There is a degree which is macroeconomic and then there are other issues where there is some new product introductions of very different to the Tempur type of product which are at the lower end which are growing in Germany.
There is some -- traditionally Germany doesn’t have very many small proportion of spring mattresses.
And there are spring mattresses that are being imported and sold in Germany which is affecting the overall market.
So there is -- it’s sort of an anomaly within Europe but that is what’s happening.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
And just on some of the products you introduced in Las Vegas in July I was wondering how those have been performing and what are you expecting from them in 4Q and 2015? Obviously the big focus from a Tempur point of view has been the products that were announced in January.
We did roll out some new pillows that are just rolling out.
The big launch from a Sealy front was the Sealy entry level product range the Sealy brand.
And we’re quite excited about those.
They are doing really quite well; we’re very proud of them; they are great products.
And it’s a product range that is a very good value for the money and a very good looking product and it’s getting a very positive response from retailers and we’re quite excited about it.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Carla Casella of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Paul Simenauer on the line for Carla Casella.
You mentioned that you’ve managed your credit agreement earlier this month what are your priorities there for your licensees in JVs and do you expect to have opportunity to buying licensees and what your comfort with leverage is there? Yes.
Well we’re not going to run down a priority list.
But from a strategy standpoint we want to unify the brand and we’re taking to Sealy brand here to the extent possible globally.
So there are opportunities out there that was the reason why we amended the agreement to have more flexibility to be able to go after some of those opportunities.
We did just quarter ago at Japan and Europe.
We’ve got some start-up that’s there in terms of getting those going in but we’ll get through that relatively quickly.
And then we’ll focus on other opportunities.
But there are a number of different opportunities in different parts of the world.
But from a strategy standpoint we want to unify the brand and the business.
Anything you want to add Mark? No I mean I think one of the things that is important as we’ve said before there are going to be acquisitions that we’ll make strategic acquisitions.
And what we were able to do with this new structure is that it just gives us an increased amount of flexibility.
So as things become available we can move very quickly.
But obviously we’re not going to list all the things we work on all go to say.
So this is an ongoing thing and it's something that we're always looking on in the background in a variety of different areas.
Got it.
And then how high do you think you'd take leverage if you found the right deal.
Well we're still limited.
We have a leverage covenant.
The leverage covenant is right now under the new agreement 4.75 which is what it was under the old agreement.
Under the old agreement the covenant stepped down pretty dramatically over the next year where under the new agreement it still steps down but it steps down over a multiyear period as opposed to over the next year.
So what would we do at max will be what we could do under the agreement.
But we don't have a per se this is where we want to be.
We're going to keep reducing our leverage.
Unless there is a deal that makes sense that changes the trajectory a little bit.
But our current credit agreement requires us to meet certain leverage levels overtime.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Josh Borstein of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
And just a follow-up on that last question on the balance sheet you de-levered a little bit it it's kinds of like ahead of expectations.
What are your plans going forward for further deleveraging the balance sheet and paying down debt? Well I think as I just said our expectations are we will short of coming to conclusion that we transact on acquisition opportunity the focus is to continue to de-lever.
And as we didn’t buy something; licensees a joint venture or something then we would continue to de-lever and we’d continue to de-lever in the direction that we had previously anticipated which was each year cash flow is going to go to reducing debt.
If what the adjustment in the credit agreement does those it gives us the opportunity to take advantage of some of the global opportunities that may come our way.
Okay thanks.
And then just last on the TEMPUR-Breeze you talked last quarter about launching the Breeze in Asia where -- what countries is the Breeze currently in I know it’s in Germany but any other countries in Europe any countries in Asia right now? It’s all over the place it’s all over now.
And it’s doing well it’s very well received product people like it.
I know you had mentioned Mark that it was a little more cannibalistic of existing Tempur mattresses than originally anticipated.
Is that still the case? Yes.
That continues to be the case.
I mean it’s a very popular product it is to larger extent that we had anticipated cannibalistic.
But it’s a good product because it expands -- it’s not only that it’s well like it sort of new; it keeps us front of mind not only for the consumer but also for the RSAs and for the retailers around the world.
So it’s a good product.
It is more cannibalistic for example than the Breeze is in America.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Yes.
At this time I am showing no further questions.
I’d like to turn the call over to Mark Sarvary for any further remarks.
Thank you.
We look forward to talking with you all again early next year when we host our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program.
And you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Tempur Sealy Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder today’s conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Rupe.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Candice and good evening everyone.
Thank you for participating in today’s call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the Company’s expectations regarding sales earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the Company’s business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the Company’s SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the Company’s press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and information regarding the methodology used for constant currency presentation is posted on the Company’s website at tempursealy.com and also filed with the SEC.
And as a reminder we are hosting an Investor Day in New York City on February 18th.
The event will begin at 10 AM and will include presentations from our CEO Mark Sarvary our COO Tim Yaggi as well as our President of International David Montgomery and our CFO Dale Williams.
If you are interested in attending please send an email to investor.relations@ tempursealy.com.
Attendance must be confirmed in advance.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today I’ll provide a brief overview of our performance in the fourth quarter and full year and will then discuss our plans and outlook for 2015 and beyond.
Dale will then provide details on the fourth quarter and full year financial results and 2015 guidance.
We ended the year with a solid fourth quarter performance.
In the U.S.
both Tempur and Sealy sales grew double digits and all five of our U.S.
brands grew in this period a testament to the complementary nature of our portfolio.
The success of our new products and effective marketing investments were the key drivers of growth.
Sales outside of the U.S.
were strong in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar turned sales increases in Europe and Canada to declines when translated and also impacted earnings to a greater extent in the quarter than we had forecast.
In total our net sales increased 9.9% and adjusted EPS increased 30%.
On a normalized basis correcting for currency sales would have increased approximately 12.8% and adjusted EPS would have increased approximately 39%.
Looking in 2014 as a whole this was a year in which a lot was accomplished.
We launched a record number of new products in the first half of 2014 and the rollout execution went quite well.
Furthermore these new products are very successful.
Consumers and retailers unlike responded very positively to them and to our marketing programs.
This drove considerable growth of Stearns &amp; Foster and Sealy and returned Tempur [indiscernible] to growth which led to U.S.
market share gains for the Tempur Sealy portfolio as a whole.
In addition we gained share in several key international markets including Argentina Japan and the UK.
We also positioned ourselves for future growth.
In 2014 we acquired the Sealy brand rights in several markets throughout the world and Tempur distribution rights in Mexico.
We divested our U.S.
innerspring component manufacturing [indiscernible] and made significant progress on our new distribution network for the U.S.
The organizational integration in North America relating to the Sealy acquisition is now essentially complete and our team is working well as a single entity.
Cost synergies have been captured at a faster rate than projected and we are very focused on driving additional cost efficiencies in 2015 and beyond.
So a lot was achieved and sales were good in 2014.
However our margins were challenged and not as high as we had expected due to unfavorable mix innerspring manufacturing inefficiencies and foreign exchange.
On mix essentially all of our sales growth in 2014 was through the retail channel and that decreased the proportion of our sales from the more profitable direct sales channel.
In addition the products we sold included a higher proportion of our adjustable bases than we had anticipated.
These bases are highly incremental and drive retailer ticket prices but have a lower gross margin.
In addition the productivity in our innerspring manufacturing plants was lower than we expected and this is going to be a big focus in 2015 and an area we plan to discuss in more detail on February 18th.
Lastly both sales and EPS were negative impacted by significant foreign exchange moves through the year.
At the beginning of the year we anticipated that foreign exchange would be a negative $0.10 EPS impact.
It turned out to be a negative $0.15 impact.
Indeed in the fourth quarter it was $0.03 more of an impact than we had anticipated when we spoke to you on October 30th.
So in summary full year 2014 sales grew 21% to $2.99 billion and adjusted EPS grew 11%.
On a normalized basis correction for currency adjusted EPS would have grown 18%.
One final note on 2014.
Cash flow was a major focus and we generated $225 million of operating cash flow and $178 million of free cash flow and we lowered our total debt by $234 million.
The past few years have been a transformational period for our Company.
As we enter 2015 with the integration of the organization largely complete we are entering a new period as a single large global company committed to steady top and bottom line growth.
In accordance with this we have established evergreen annual growth targets for sales and adjusted EPS that we will measures ourselves against every year.
We expect these targets to remain consistent for at least the next three to five years.
On a constant currency basis we will target net sales growth of 6% and adjusted EPS growth of 15%.
We expect our operating margin to expand by approximately 50 basis points each year.
We will talk more about these targets on the 18th but our 2015 financial guidance is consistent with them.
However as Dale would explain our 2015 full year guidance includes an anticipated negative $0.27 adjusted EPS impact from foreign exchange based on current spot rates and this is on top of the $0.15 adjusted EPS effect from FX we experienced in 2014.
In September of 2013 we communicated an adjusted EPS target of $4 for 2016.
At the high end of our guidance we are on track to achieve that target a year late in 2017.
However if currency rates have not changed since September 2013 at the high end of our guidance we would on pace to achieve that target as planned in 2016.
Now I’d like to discuss our strategy and initiatives in the context of our 2015 outlook.
While we are already the global bedding leader we are the share leader in only a few countries.
It is our goal to become the share leader in every country we compete in.
Our strategy everywhere in the world is focused on investing in our brands developing consumer preferred products expanding distribution and striving for highest dealer advocacy and where appropriate making strategic acquisitions.
Our initiatives in 2015 are consistent with this strategy.
In North America in 2015 we are expecting good sale growth and even better earnings growth.
We anticipate the sales growth will continue to benefit from our successful 2014 product introductions as well as our 2015 introductions.
A couple of weeks ago at the U.S.
Bedding show in Las Vegas we introduced two significant new product lines TEMPUR-Flex which is a new third collection for Tempur and an entirely new Posturepedic offering.
TEMPUR-Flex uses hybrid construction and new proprietary technology and will extend our brand appeal and expand the number of consumers that feel Tempur is right for them.
It was well received by our retail customers and we’re optimistic about its prospects.
Posturepedic is celebrating its 65th anniversary and we are rededicating the brand to its back support heritage.
We have improved the value proposition across the entire line by incorporating encased coils gel memory foam and a CoreSupport Center for unsurpassed back support.
Like Flex we’re also very pleased with the reception it received from our retail customers.
We remain committed to investing in our brands and will maintain a consistent level of marketing and advertising investments in 2015 as compared to 2014.
We will continue to support Tempur-Pedic and Posturepedic on TV as well as digital and Stearns &amp; Foster Optimum and Sealy through a combination of digital and print.
We also have cost initiatives underway throughout our U.S.
organization including the continuation of our distribution network redesign improving the efficiency of our innerspring manufacturing plants and overall productivity and expense initiatives.
Now switching to International.
This is an enormous opportunity for the Tempur and Sealy brands and we are investing to capitalize on it.
As a result while we are expecting solid sales growth in 2015 we are expecting minimal earnings growth.
At the Koln Fair in Germany last month we officially launched Sealy in Stearns &amp; Foster and introduced a new Scandinavian Bed system [indiscernible] Tempur North.
We will expand the distribution of Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster in Europe and invest ahead of sales and marketing to support distribution and build brand awareness.
We will also expand our Tempur International direct business through the opening of new owned stores which will pressure profitability early in the year.
We also anticipate expanding the retail distribution of Tempur overseas.
Apart from our investment and growth it’s important to note that weakness in central Europe particularly in the German speaking countries is not abating and we anticipate this to further pressure our international performance in 2015.
Before turning over to Dale I would like to contextualize our outlook.
Today Tempur Sealy is a stronger and more stable company than it has ever been.
We are developing great products that retailers and consumers are purchasing investing our marketing dollars more effectively and positioning ourselves for substantial future growth across the world.
Our cash flows are strong and while our costs have been higher than we expected we have initiatives in place to reduce then and improve our margins.
In 2015 we are expecting solid sales growth and significant margin improvement in North America somewhat offset by investments in building Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster sales overseas and the continued weakness in Central Europe and as I have said FX continues to be a serious headwind.
We look forward to sharing more details with you regarding our longer-term outlook in the couple of weeks.
With that I will now hand the call over to Dale.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results and then discuss our 2015 guidance.
I will address the performance on a consolidated basis then speak to the performance for each segment and provide commentary on the key areas or items where there is notable variance from the prior year.
Consolidated net sales for the fourth quarter were $745.5 million up 9.9% versus last year.
On a constant currency basis fourth quarter sales increased 12.8%.
Tempur North America net sales increased 16% and were driven by strong demand for our new mattresses and adjustable bases as well as certain heavier year-end buys from a few customers that elected to stretch to higher rebate tiers for 2014.
Bedding net sales increased 18% on a unit increase of approximately 10%.
Within bedding sales growth on an adjustable basis were significant and once again higher than we forecast.
Sales of other products declined 8%.
By channel Tempur North America retail sales were up 17% and direct sales declined 2%.
Tempur International net sales were up 3.3% and on a constant currency basis up 11.4%.
Growth was driven by a combination of higher Tempur sales and sales from Sealy Japan and Europe.
Bedding net sales increased 6% on a unit increase of 11%.
By channel Tempur International retail sales were flat while direct sales increased 27%.
Sealy sales increased 8.2% driven by strong growth in the U.S.
On a constant currency basis Sealy sales were up 11%.
Bedding product sales were up 12% as were retail channel sales.
Fourth quarter consolidated GAAP gross margin was 39.5% as compared to 40.2% in the prior year.
On a year-over-year basis fourth quarter gross margin declined primarily due to product and channel mix increased discounts and most notably customer rebates and unfavorable foreign exchange.
These impacts were partially offset by operational efficiencies primarily in Tempur North America.
Consolidated advertising expenses of $82 million were 11% of sales as compared to last year’s 10.5%.
Consolidated operating income was $76.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 and included $18.9 million of integration cost related to the Sealy acquisition and $1 million of financing cost related to the October 2014 amendment to the Company's senior secured credit facility.
This compares to operating income of $74.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 which included $8.2 million of transaction and integration cost.
There are several factors that drove up the integration cost during the fourth quarter.
First our work to improve our warehouse and distribution network in the U.S.
has led to various actions including certain plant actions closures and openings.
We also incurred integration costs related to integrating Sealy into our international operations.
Interest expense was $21.4 million.
Other income was $13.3 million and included income from a partial settlement of a legal dispute.
The fourth quarter tax rate was 31% and the pro forma tax rate was 26.1%.
Fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share was $0.75 as compared to $0.44 per share last year.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 30% to $0.86 in the fourth quarter as compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.66 in the prior year.
Now I’ll summarize the income statement for the full year 2014.
As a reminder 2013 results only include Sealy from March 18 2013 onward.
Sales increased 21% to $2.990 billion as compared to $2.464 billion in 2013.
Tempur North America sales increased 9% Tempur International sales increased 7% and Sealy sales increased 37%.
Operating income was $276 million as compared to $244 million in 2013.
Operating income for full year 2014 included $43.8 million of integration and financing cost and 2013 included $44.6 million of integration and transaction cost related to the Sealy acquisition.
GAAP earnings per share for full year 2014 was $1.75 as compared to GAAP EPS for the full year 2013 of $1.28.
Adjusted earnings per share in 2014 was $2.65 as compared to adjusted EPS of $2.38 in 2013.
Now I’ll turn to the cash flow and balance sheet for a brief review.
Operating cash flow during the quarter was $44 million and for the year was $225 million.
We reduced total debt by $234 million in 2014.
At December 31 2014 the company had consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.6 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 3.9 times calculated in accordance with the Company’s senior secured credit facility.
A calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
Today the Company issued financial guidance for 2015.
The Company currently expects net sales to be in the range of $3.50 billion to $3.150 billion which reflects growth of 2.5% compared to 2014 despite approximately 3.5% headwind from 2014 based on current unfavorable foreign exchange rates adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.70 to $3.10 which includes $0.27 per share of unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
We’re also providing the following additional full year 2015 guidance assumptions.
Depreciation and amortization of approximately $95 million adjusted EBITDA of $420 million to $455 million interest expense of approximately $86 million annual tax rate of approximately 30% non-controlling interest of approximately $2 million average share count of 62.5 million shares and capital expenditures of approximately $65 million.
It is important to note that our 2015 adjusted earnings per share guidance excludes the impact of ongoing integration cost related to the acquisition of Sealy.
From an earnings perspective our guidance reflects margin expansion resulting from improvement in North America offset partially by investments internationally and continued weakness in Europe.
In addition our guidance assumes an unfavorable $24 million operating income impact from FX.
Based on these assumptions we expect our operating margin to be in a range of 10.8% to 11.5% for full year 2015.
We are planning for first quarter 2015 sales of approximately $710 million to $720 million which reflects growth of approximately 1% to 3% or 5% to 7% correcting for FX.
Another factor impacting the first quarter growth is that a few of our customers made heavier year-end purchases in order to qualify for a higher rebate year which we estimate pulled forward approximately $15 million to $20 million of sales into the fourth quarter of 2014 and out of the first quarter of 2015.
There is very modest earnings benefit to our fourth quarter as the higher rebate was applied over the full year’s purchases.
We expect these higher fourth quarter purchases to somewhat dampen our first quarter results.
While year-end buys are not uncommon 2014 was the first year in some time that customers who had achieved significant growth in 2014 were in a position to capitalize on stretching to a higher rebate tier.
In addition we were also expecting unfavorable FX to impact first quarter 2015 earnings per share by $0.07 and our International business to be a drag on profits.
Taking this all into consideration we currently expect adjusted earnings per share to range from $0.45 to $0.50 in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to $0.53 in the first quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted earnings per share guidance is pro forma and as noted in the press release does not include integration cost related to the Sealy acquisition discrete tax items associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings and certain non-recurring interest expense and financing cost.
And considering our guidance it is possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions unexpected changes in foreign exchange rates and competitive activities or the consequences of other factors we have identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the Company’s control.
Before turning the call over to Q&amp;A I would like to make one final comment.
Beginning in 2015 in recognition of the progress made integrating Sealy into our business the Company will be changing our segment reporting to North America International and Corporate.
We plan to file an 8-K next week with historical segment data to provide perspective on the changes.
In addition the material we will present on February 18th will reflect the segment reporting changes.
With that Operator please open the line for questions.
Thank you (Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
I guess Dale if you could would you take us through maybe the FX effect on revenues gross profit and operating expense maybe by segment if it’s possible for the fourth quarter? For the fourth quarter.
Yes I don’t have the fourth quarter in front of me.
Let’s go to the next question and I’ll pull that up.
Okay and [Multiple Speakers] I’ve got the full year but not the fourth quarter? I'll take it that way.
That’s fine.
Well for the full year of 2014 FX cost us $41 million in revenue.
It affected our gross margin by approximately $24 million.
Operating expenses were improved by about $11 million and operating earnings were reduced by $13 million.
In terms of our expectations for 2015 the current FX rates would negatively affect revenue and this is incorporated into our guidance -- this negative effect by $110 million.
So the guidance that we are giving on revenue is $110 million lower due to foreign exchange.
The gross margin impact is $58 million.
Operating expenses would be improved by $34 million and the operating income impact of foreign exchange would be $24 million negative.
And so you run that…yes go ahead… No go ahead what was your question? Give us a little bit by segment.
I know you’re going to change the segment accounting but I would think most of that -- is most of that factored in Europe? How much of that’s in the International segment? If we look at 2014 the impact was about two thirds Canada.
So the bulk of that impact affected Sealy some impact in Tempur North America.
One third is Asia Latin America.
That also attracted Sealy and Tempur International.
And 2015 the impact is half Canada so that affects under the new segments North America.
Under the old segments it would affect both Sealy and Tempur North America.
And half is in Europe and that would be all in Tempur International.
And is the effect equivalent across all three functional buckets still revenues gross profit and operating expense? [indiscernible] No I mean the split is pretty similar.
I think that from a gross margin standpoint the impact is probably skewed a little bit heavier to Europe and I don’t have it laid out exactly that way but just looking at the pieces here from a gross margin impact the bulk of the -- probably two thirds of the earnings impact is on gross margin in Europe but then you have a better operating income give back on that where the expenses get lower.
So of the total about half of that earnings impact is in Canada and half is in Europe.
The issues we had in Canada is our -- a significant portion of our purchases of our COGS is U.S.
dollar denominated.
So as the Canadian currency declines your cost is in U.S.
-- a good portion of your cost is in U.S.
dollars but your revenues being knocked down because of the currency.
While I was able to pull up Q4 here.
In Q4 currency affected the Company $20 million in sales $11 million in gross profit $6 million in operating income.
And I'm not going to break that down by segment.
Yes I understand.
I don’t want to take too much more time on that but it okay it's obviously a big issue.
And Sealy Canada over indexes versus what we'd normally expect and Tempur Canada under indexes.
Is that still the case? Yes.
Okay.
Last question for me is just trying to walk through gross profit differential in the fourth quarter versus your expectations.
You had expected significantly better gross margin.
Maybe if you can quantify where those significant variances were that might be helpful for us? Yes well I mean the gross margin it was down 70 basis points year-over-year.
FX was much worse than we expected.
The adjustable -- as I said our adjustables over performed expectations again in the fourth quarter and.
So that was a mix impact.
Where would that have taken down gross margin? What would it have taken down? Yes well gross margin rate right it would have been [indiscernible].
Right.
Well the adjustable mix would have impacted the gross margin negatively by -- North America was impacted negative on the mix by about 150 basis points.
Okay.
And then the other big factor was the rebate pacing.
And what was the impact of that? You said that was $15 million to $20 million of revenue.
So would the impact of that would be $6 million to $8 million? Not quite that high but almost.
Okay.
I was hoping for numbers too.
Okay almost.
We'll live with almost.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Good luck on the balance of this quarter.
And we'll see you in a week or two.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Josh Borstein of Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Just on the guidance is it possible to talk about what the guidance implies for each of the three segments on the top line? Yes for the year what we are -- and this is on the old segment basis.
For the year we are expecting Tempur North America to be up mid-single digits.
Now when we talk about what the guidance implies we always talk to the midpoint of the guidance.
So the high end of the guidance would be a little bit better the low end of the guidance would be a little worse but at the midpoint Tempur North America would be up mid-single digits for the year; Tempur International up high single-digits.
Now keep in mind despite our discussion of continuing issues in Europe we are rolling out Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster in Europe.
That is included in the Tempur International old segment because it's going through the Tempur distribution system and that's where we expect to see significant growth internationally.
Sealy we would expect to be up low single-digits and Sealy was heavily affected by FX.
Okay.
And then just on that International high single-digit growth rate how much do you think is organic? How much is the Sealy rollout? Well we're not going to break it down but the Sealy rollout is organic.
That's our product.
So it's our distribution channels.
So it's just adding product to our existing programs.
No that makes sense.
I guess put other way -- how much do you think is coming in from the legacy business as opposed the new Sealy products that are rolling out? The Tempur legacy business would be -- we actually expect Tempur legacy business to be kind of mid-single digits and the new Sealy products to drive that higher from an overall growth.
Okay.
And just on the gross margin expectations for Tempur North America what are your expectations? What's baked in the guidance for Tempur North America? From an overall business we're looking for gross margins to be in the 39.5% to 40% range.
We expect significant improvements in profitability in North America.
We actually expect both Tempur and Sealy North America business despite the Canadian FX headwind to see significant improvement in both gross margin and operating margin in 2015.
We saw very strong improvement in the performance of Tempur North America in the back half of the year and we think that that will continue throughout 2015.
We expect Sealy North America business next year to see good improvement in profitability through the programs and initiatives that we put in place.
And from an overall business International gross margins are going to be down and despite the revenue up.
FX affects that significantly but also we're investing in the International and we are rolling out a lower margin product line in International.
Okay thanks for the color.
And just one more for me on -- a lot of talk obviously about commodities here lately.
What are your expectations for the year? Do you have anything baked into guidance? What are you seeing in terms of either foam steel wire for the coils or on distribution cost? Yes on the commodity side what we have baked into our guidance for 2015 is actually very modest slight inflation.
Now let me explain that because there's lot of people that think that we ought to be seeing dramatic deflation.
If you look at raw materials that we buy certain chemicals foam steel that -- particularly around the chemicals and the foam that we buy those products -- the key components of those products obviously are oil or natural gas based but way down the chain you get into the chemicals that -- essentially are developed into polyol TDI MDI that you use to make the polyurethane foams.
Last year all year as we talked about on our third quarter call we saw a price inflation in those key ingredients and those chemical inputs such that the peak pricing was in December.
And so even if we start -- and we have started to see some improvement in the feed chemicals that ultimately lead to making polyol TDI MDI.
We started here recently to see some improvement in those feed chemicals but we're starting from the highest point of the year last year where we saw increasing price pressure in those inputs all year.
So we have to see significant reduction before we would ever get any benefit.
Another key component is we do have contracts in place with our suppliers.
Those contracts are three six nine depending on the supplier and the input.
And they're done that way to principally protect us on the -- in the other direction that they can’t jerk our prices around when prices are going up that we have clear visibility to price increases months in advance.
But in a situation like this that works in the negative where it delays giving price declines.
But it provides for a more stable environment.
Certainly we will work hard with our suppliers to get advantage despite the contracts of some improved input cost that they are experiencing but right now our expectation is our expectation.
And the coil or the steel costs you're not seeing any deflation there either? Not a lot.
A significant portion of our material cost is chemicals or foam.
Steel obviously is another key component that we buy but steel similarly we expect to see some price improvement there but not dramatic.
And our next question comes from the line of Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is now open.
I wanted to first ask about the heavy year-end buys and perhaps give a little more color about what do you think that did in terms of earnings impact in the fourth quarter and what kind of a drag it could present in the first quarter? Yes.
Well as I said in my comments because of the success of Tempur last year at the beginning of each year there are -- we set up these programs.
A couple of customers had a very successful year made significant improvement in their business and our business.
They coming into the end of the year were in a situation where if they took some inventory they could get up to the next rebate tier and that’s why rebates work is -- it's retroactive for the full year.
So that buy up that a couple of those customers decided to exercise really did not contribute much margin to us.
So we had a lot of moving parts the biggest moving part we had in addition to -- from where the business was and on what our outlook was on October 30th was three times worse in FX.
So from a fourth quarter standpoint revenue was higher earnings were marginally different.
The first quarter impact is we don’t have that full value revenue in the first quarter.
So that dampens first quarter from both from a top and the bottom line.
Got you.
So if I think about a contribution margin on $15 million or $20 million or revenue or 25% or 30% that might get a $0.05 or $0.07 drag.
Is that how we should be thinking about what's baked into the first quarter guidance? Yes.
Great.
And then I wanted to follow just on the Sealy side.
This is an important refresh they have underway this year.
Their big competitor is in Simmons and of course they’re getting refreshes this year.
Could you talk a little bit about what the placements look like what the initial demand from retailers looks like on that product? The product is yet to start to rolling but they will at the end of first quarter and into second quarter.
The retail reaction has been quite positive actually.
So we feel -- we’ll see it when we see it but we feel quite positive about it.
The products have been well received both from an aesthetic point of view but also very much from a feel point of view.
We’re quite proud of the way that we’ve improved the interior of the products and improve the feel as I said in my comments focused on the back support which is obviously the heritage.
That resonated well with retailers.
The aesthetics have resonated well and quite honestly we’re quite excited about how that has been received.
So the proof will be in the pudding but as of today it looks quite positive.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Jessica Mace of Nomura Securities.
Your line is now open.
My first question is on the annual 6% growth target.
Can you break that down for us as far as your assumptions for market growth as well as what your market share opportunities are especially with a significant opportunity abroad.
It’s a broad top line number but if you were to use just a rule of thumb we would say approximately 4% is what we’re kind of baking in as the global market growth.
It will vary by country and so forth and as will our performance by country.
But broadly speaking as I said in the comments our expectation is to outgrow the industry and the 6% is sort of expectation of the growth measurably faster than that of the industry.
Great.
Understood.
And then if you could just talk a little bit more about the Sealy Europe business in particular maybe if you can quantify the top line contribution you had this quarter versus your expectations and just how you see that ramping throughout 2015? I think you had mentioned in the past some expectation for EBIT contribution from leveraging the Tempur infrastructure and what you think the timing for that is in 2015 given the currency headwinds.
Yes.
Well the currency headwinds are obviously applicable across international Sealy and Tempur.
So that is a factor.
But the rollout has gone okay so far and the reason is this.
We’ve got distribution.
Our distribution has rolled out as we expected and so far customers as we anticipated want to carry the product.
We’ve been quite pleased with the reaction.
As I said we showed it in Cologne which is a big fair in Europe and the reaction there was very positive.
One thing though that has slowed the rollout is that we will -- our third party supplier was effectively the licensee that we used to have the licensee from whom we bought the rights.
Their business has frankly got into trouble not from us but from their other customers and as a result that company very rapidly went out of business.
We got an alternative supplier which is ramping up right now but it’s giving us a little bit of hiccup in the rollout here.
So what I anticipate is that we’re going to get the rollout.
The rollout will keep going.
I think that as customers get the products the sales per store per slot will continue to grow.
So overall we are seeing a little bit of a slowdown in that.
It’s not going to materially affect the overall volume for this year but it will be a little slower.
So I think the readout is going to be at least a quarter behind where I had hoped it would be in terms of the ramp speed.
But the fundamental acceptance and sell through that we’re seeing is actually not bad at all.
So that’s good.
We’ve got to get this supply situation worked out.
We've got it worked out.
It’s just going to take time to ramp up.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Peter Keith of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Mark I was curious in the prepared remarks you had said that at sort of at the high end of your guidance you should be on track with the 2016 operating margin goals of 13.5.
So I guess reading into that it sounds like [indiscernible].
I said EPS… On EPS okay.
So maybe it sounds like you are a little bit behind where you thought you should be.
Could you highlight what's sort of stalling your progress here to that 2016 goal? FX.
Yes I mean FX is there.
What I said was this.
If we were to use the FX of 2013 at the high end of our guidance I'm assuming a 15% growth again this year.
We’d be at $4 EPS.
But obviously the FX is not what it was in 2013.
But -- so right now what it says is that at the current tracking rate we'll hit that $4 threshold in 2017 assuming that we achieve the high end and we get to 15%.
That was the point I was making.
I know you are talking about that excluding FX.
So there's nothing that’s come up between now and when you flick [ph] those numbers forth that’s slowing down your progress? Is that….
No I mean obviously our revenue -- one point to make is our revenue is higher than we had anticipated at this time.
But that said obviously we gave guidance at the beginning of last year and what our final numbers were were at the lower end of that guidance.
So clearly I would have liked to have been in the middle or above the guidance in terms of being on track for that run rate.
There's a variety different things that are driving that.
One of them is the fact that we have had some issues from a productivity point of view on the spring manufacturing plants that have slowed our bottom line growth.
But we are still on track.
We’re not -- but they have -- we're not as far ahead or as far along as obviously we would like to be.
Just obviously given the fact that our guidance was -- that we’re not in the high end of our guidance from last year.
Peter just putting context from -- by the end of ’15 if everything played out exactly as we just discussed both from the top line from an execution standpoint and we were at the high end of this guidance over a two year period you would have -- from the ’13 rates to the ’15 rates we’ve lost $150 million of revenue and we would have lost 220 basis points of gross margin and 110 basis points of operating margin all just to currency.
Fair enough.
The one thing I just want to get clarification on -- last quarter there was some quality control issues as you ramped up Sealy hybrid in Europe with the contract manufacturers.
You’re now shifting over to a new one.
Are you fully ramped up with quality control or could there be some risk that you’re going through some more margin issues in the first half of 2015? I don’t think that -- this is -- it's a big -- it’s an important part of the business.
I don’t -- it's an important part of the process.
So I don’t want to trivialize it.
I think that the quality control processes we have in place I think are quite good.
So that I feel pretty good about.
And in terms of the ramp up I think -- I feel pretty good about that too.
I think that the supplier is good.
I think the issue is always though transitioning from one third party supplier to another is not a trivial activity.
So it’s not that it’s going to be -- I think that’s why I put the caution as I did to the prior person on the phone.
I just -- that sort of transition is always something we have to take with caution.
But in terms of quality I feel pretty good.
And in terms of capability of supply I feel very good.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
You talked about the launch of the Sealy products.
Just wanted to ask on Flex.
Can you give us any sort of feel of client reception how doors -- how quickly they'll be out things like that would be helpful? Again I have to caveat it by the fact that we haven’t obviously started properly shipping them.
But the reaction was very positive.
In Vegas the customer reaction was very positive and we anticipate this going to all of our major customers.
And so we had a very positive reaction.
We anticipate it getting a very good distribution.
It will roll out at the end of the first quarter and the beginning of the second quarter.
And in terms of thoughts we anticipate that we’re going to get -- there are three products in the line.
So we’re expecting somewhat -- obviously between two and three slots per store.
And we’re expecting of the order of one -- give or take one incremental slot per store; one incremental slot as a result of this product line.
So we'll see but we're quite excited.
The thing about this product as it really as I know you know it has a very different -- it provides the support and the uniqueness of a Tempur but at the same time there's a very different feel to either the Cloud or the Contour.
So we think that it is -- we hope that it will be quite incremental.
Question to Dale.
You had talked about the Tempur North America as part of your sales guidance for '15 and being up mid-single digits.
Is there some Canada currency in that number as well? There's some Canada currency associated with Tempur North America.
Yes.
Can you give us kind of rough indication as to what...
So Tempur in Canada under indexes versus what we would like it to be.
So the impact on Tempur North America of currency is much smaller than the impact on Sealy from Canada.
But there is a slight negative there.
It's not a big headwind for us.
And the final question is on advertising views for 2015.
[Indiscernible] any details you give us there what you're going to be looking to spend? We're going to spend -- roughly speaking as a ratio and -- we're going to spend very consistently with what we spent this last year in '14.
Consistent in terms of the dollar spend.
Is that what you're referring to? Percentage.
The rate.
The rate spend.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Joan Storms of Wedbush Securities.
Your line is now open.
So with the re-segmenting of the segments to North America International and Corporate and I know there were a couple of questions on this a little bit earlier but on the projected growth rates for sales gross margin I'm assuming -- so the sales on a blended rate were going to be about -- I think you said about 6% and then minus some FX a little bit lower than that.
And then on the gross margin up in TPX up a little bit in Sealy and then down in International.
So maybe you could just maybe give us a general guidance on the sales for each of those new segmented channel? Joan since you don’t have any information on the new segments we're going to send out an 8-K end of next week in advance of the Investor Day so you start to see historical numbers in these segments.
But right now with nothing to look at I think it's better just let's wait for Investor Day let's go through it then.
In advance of Investor Day you'll see historical data and the new segment format and then there'll be much better conversation once you have seen that and have that.
Okay.
So we'll just continue to model it the way we have been.
And so… Yes for the next week please.
Yes.
Okay.
Then we'll do it again.
And then also on the Flex products felt that was pretty interesting.
Was there any indication on -- it seems like although -- like Mark had just said they expect all the major retailers to take it.
Is there any fall out between Flex and the other products on the Tempur North America in that region? Yes as I said we think that we'll -- as we said what our expectations are is that we'll get two to three slots in each on average and that of that one of them will be incremental.
And so 1.5 will be taken away from other slots.
What we anticipate and in fact what most of our retailers are doing is taking out Weightless which is a product that we have had for some years but which is a relatively smaller volume product and putting in its place Flex which both from us and for Tempur and for the retailer is going to give a better turn on the floor.
So that's what we see happening.
We don’t see it affecting the core Contour or Cloud.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Karru Martinson of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
To take a big picture view here when you talk about wanting to become kind of share leader in every country that you're in what's the time horizon that we're looking at this of International investment and the opportunity incoming from there? Well that's a good question.
There's not a single -- there's not a single answer because you are quite right.
It's different in some countries than others.
In February -- I'm sorry on the 18th when we meet we will talk specifically about how we're thinking about which countries are the ones that are sort of first on the list and which is the second tier.
And so -- however we are in the top-five in more countries than you would imagine.
It's not as though this is sort a -- would be far away.
And one of the things that you may know is that in many of the countries certainly in Europe there are no very large players and that Tempur while relatively small is actually by itself a relatively major player.
The combination of Tempur and Sealy puts us in a situation where we have a portfolio that will give us that opportunity.
So what I would say is that in some countries -- in some countries we're talking two to three to four years some countries it's going to be longer than that.
But it is a strategic objective wherever we are to be able to use the combination of the organic drivers of growth and where appropriate and possible strategic acquisitions to move ourselves to be number one wherever we compete.
And forgive ignorance but when we look at the International market and recognizing that there is great variability between them as far as for long on kind of the specialty mattress equitation as our market here or is there more of an education curve that we still need to realize there.
They might say we need an education.
It depends how you look at it.
I think it really -- one of the most remarkable things about the international business is how different it is from country-to-country and how literally neighboring countries have totally different product lines but also product types.
This is somewhat modifying but I think it would be a mistake to think of the specialty of the U.S.
as an advanced thing.
It is -- the brand one of the things that I think is unique -- I know is unique is that although the countries are different the major competitors are different by country and even the types of products are different by country one of the remarkable things is that there are no brands that transcend multiple countries in a meaningful way except Tempur.
Tempur is really quite unique in this in that it exists as a material player in countries who's every other competitor is different.
But I wouldn’t think as it as sort of scale of more or less advanced.
I would think of it as more or less different.
Then I think the most important thing is brand awareness.
As we think about our single biggest requirement obviously distribution is critical but also brand awareness and that is the kind of the metric that you use to drive leadership in the country that we will use to drive leadership.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Anderson of William Blair.
Your line is now open.
Two quick ones.
Just an update on any supply chain simplification efforts and the associated cost synergies.
And then I know you made a -- I think a fairly significant investment in point of purchase materials and displays to support the new product launches this year.
I'm just wondering what the response from the RSAs and consumers has been to that? And whether you think you're getting a good return on that investment? I will take the supply chain one.
This is Dale.
And from a supply chain standpoint one of our major initiatives as we have talked about is the business with a portion of that is the distribution network realignment that we've been doing across the U.S.
We're probably at this stage about two-thirds of the way through that.
And it's one of those things that you can’t do it all at once and you've got to go region-by-region and operation-by-operation and realign how the customer orders come in realign what your trucking process is you delivery process et cetera.
That’s why it’s being done region-by-region.
The thing that led to that question was around the synergies.
We had said at the beginning of the year that we expected to have achieved $40 million cumulative synergies by the end of 2014 and we are slightly ahead of that.
And we'll talk about that a little bit more next week.
And then Mark.
Supply chain contributed the amount -- that you had anticipated to come from the supply chain was achieved in 2014.
And as far as the POS and POP in concerned it has been very well received.
The reason that the POP in my opinion has been effective is it is attractive and it attracts the consumer to come to the stand and to take a look at the bed.
But it's also actually relatively simply informative not only for the consumer but for the retail RSA.
It makes it easier to sell the product because the information is there.
And as we are rolling out Flex one of the things that we've done is that although the Flex rollout is a smaller rollout than the Contour and Cloud rollout that we did last year it’s still a very big rollout.
It’s possibly the second biggest rollout we've ever done.
So it’s another big rollout.
But what we are doing is again tying it with new POP but very much in the family the old POP.
So it capitalizes on that structure.
So we actually are quite pleased with it.
And Posturepedic too is going to have new POP and while quite different and designed for whole different purpose -- whole different structure that too was well received and that too we're going to be rolling out this year.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Reid of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Quick question here regarding the Sealy distribution in the U.S.
Just curious kind of what the follow-up was on that with relation to some of the issues you guys had in 3Q and what your outlook is on that heading into 2015? All right.
I referred to it in my comments.
So -- in some ways one could point to kind of one off things that happened that caused these inefficiencies.
So to some extent each one of them or each thing happened was in itself a one-off event.
But one of the things that I think that we will know and one of the big focuses for 2015 -- indeed it will be a big part of what we talk -- one of the things that we'll talk about somewhere in New York on 18th is a systematic review and -- from top to bottom review of the process from supply chain as well as the manufacturing process to try and systematically reduce posted inefficiencies to make the productivity higher but also to reduce the likelihood of one-off problems like this.
And it’s an improving and the systematizing of the plant.
So I don’t want to imply that the plants are broken or that they're not good.
They're good.
We just need -- what we need to do is to be able to systematize better to take the best practices from each plant and apply it across the board.
And that process is actually underway.
It’s something that we have positive traction on.
I’m quite excited about it.
But it’s not a thing that can be fixed or changed in a day.
This will take a little while.
We are well on our way through the distribution component of it.
The manufacturing component of it now is going to be a big focus.
That was very helpful.
And then one quick follow up here and apologies if you guys have already addressed it but what sort of adjustable contribution are you guys modeling in your 2015 guidance? Obviously I know it’s very preliminary.
But sort of generally speaking kind of how do you expect that to impact the top line there.
We are expecting our adjustable mix to be relatively consistent with what we’ve seen here over the last quarter or two.
It’s grown dramatically.
We’re not expecting significant further growth but we are expecting some continued growth on attach rates of adjustables.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Mark Sarvary for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
And we look forward to talking with you again at our Investor Day in New York City on February 18th.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Mr.
Mark Rupe.
Sir please begin.
Thanks Lisa.
Good evening and thank you for participating in today’s call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters are Mark Sarvary President and CEO; and Dale Williams EVP and CFO.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company’s expectations regarding sales earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company’s business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company’s SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company’s press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and information regarding the methodology used for constant currency presentation is posted on the company’s website at tempursealy.com and filed with the SEC.
In connection with the conference call the company has prepared an investor presentation which has been filed with the SEC and is also available on the Investor Relations section of the company’s website.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Mark Sarvary.
Thanks Mark.
Good evening everyone; thanks for joining us.
Today I’ll provide an overview of our performance in the first quarter and the progress we’re making against our stated sales margin and earnings growth objectives.
Dale will then provide details on the first quarter results and the updated 2015 guidance.
I’m pleased to report that the first quarter of 2015 has been strong.
Sales and profits are growing.
Correcting for currency net sales were up 9% and adjusted EPS was up 20%.
Margins are improving as we expected and were particularly strong in North America where both gross and operating margins improved materially.
These improvements are the continuation of the operating margin improvements we saw in the back half of last year.
These results are consistent with the plans that we communicated at our Investor Day in February to drive sales at above industry rates to grow adjusted EPS by 15% a year and to improve margins by more than 100 basis points in 2015 and 300 basis points over the next three years.
Our sales performance was as planned in Q1 it was driven primarily by North America but international sales were also slightly better than planned and this despite a more challenging foreign exchange environment.
Regarding FX our first quarter adjusted EPS of $0.55 included a negative currency impact of $0.09 a share compared to Q1 of 2014 and was about $0.02 worse than we had anticipated at the time we provided guidance in February.
Turning now to North America segment net sales our North America business segment net sales were ahead of plan driven primarily by higher Sealy sales.
Net sales were up 7.5% with US net sales up 8.7%.
And while Canada net sales were down 4.5% on a constant currency basis they were up 7.2%.
In the US sales of both Tempur-Pedic and Sealy products grew at a high single digit rate.
Tempur-Pedic was driven by the continued sales momentum of last year’s new product introduction as well as adjustable bases and sales through the direct channel.
Sealy was driven by strong growth of the Sealy brand sales and solid double digit growth of Stearns &amp; Foster and Optimum.
As we look to the balance of the year in North America we expect the recent launches of TEMPUR-Flex and Posturepedic products as well as continued momentum of adjustable bases and last year’s launches to continue to drive our top line growth.
Now on margins North American margins were up significantly year over year and in line with where we expected them to be.
Correcting for currency adjusted gross margin increased 150 basis points driven by the US where Tempur margins increased over 300 basis points and Sealy’s margins improved 100 basis points.
We’re particularly pleased with the overall gross margin performance given that both the lower-margin adjustable bases and Sealy products were a higher proportion of the mix than anticipated.
Pricing initiatives were implemented during the quarter and productivity particularly in the Tempur plants also contributed to margin improvement.
The Sealy US gross margin initiatives that we discussed at the Investor Day are well underway and we believe will contribute to margin improvement to some extent in 2015 and to a larger extent in 2016.
The work is proceeding well and we remain confident that we will improve Sealy’s US gross margin to 33% in the next few years.
Overall the operating margin momentum we saw in North America in the second half of last year continued into the first quarter of 2015.
Excluding the effects of the Canadian dollar North America adjusted operating margin improved 100 basis points and we expect further improvement as the remainder of the year plays out.
Now turning to international we're also seeing good performance internationally with results slightly better than planned.
Correcting for currency net sales increased about 13% with very strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America and modest growth in Europe.
Our Asia Pacific growth resulted from the contribution of the recently acquired Sealy brand rights in Japan and our established Tempur business throughout the region.
Our Latin America growth was driven by both Sealy and Tempur brands.
Sales in Europe were constrained by continued weakness in Central Europe which was down in the quarter.
Sales of Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster products in Europe contributed the majority of growth.
We transitioned manufacturing of the Sealy hybrid mattress to a new supplier and are now fully up and running.
Sealy Europe represents a $200 million growth opportunity and with the supply chain established and distribution building across Europe we are now in a position to capitalize on this potential.
From a margin perspective international margins declined as expected.
As we grow the Sealy business internationally we expect to generate higher operating profit dollars but at a slightly lower margin rate.
In the first quarter Sealy drove the majority of the growth and foreign exchange was a drag.
As we look to the remainder of the year we expect foreign exchange to continue to pressure sales and margins but we are projecting an improvement in gross profit and operating income dollars in the second half of the year versus the prior year after correcting for foreign exchange.
2015 is an important inflection point in our business.
Over the last two years we've accomplished a great deal.
We responded to the changed competitive environment in 2012 by taking decisive and effective action through 2013 and 2014 which has resulted in a doubling of the value of Tempur Sealy from September 26 2012 the day before we announced the acquisition of Sealy.
This game changing acquisition was completed in 2013 and we then drove strong growth at Sealy in 2014 with Sealy gaining US market share for the first time since 2009 and coming into 2015 with strong momentum.
We've also captured $45 million in synergies to date with another $25 million in our projections that we are confident we can achieve.
At the same time we re-energized Tempur-Pedic in North America strengthening the leading premium brand in the industry achieving a 9% sales increase in 2014 and along with significantly improved margins in the second half of the year.
We also positioned our international business for future growth through the acquisitions of Sealy brand rights in Europe and Japan.
However our opportunity to improve margins is significant particularly for Sealy.
It is a primary focus of the company and we are implementing a comprehensive program to improve operating margins by 300 basis points over the next three years.
Today we expect significant improvement to both the top and bottom line to be realized from these initiatives in 2015 and beyond.
Our team has successfully addressed the changed market and as we look to the future is executing a clear plan that will enhance results as we outlined at the investor Day.
We are pleased that our first quarter results met the benchmarks we set especially with regard to our aggressive gross margin improvement plan and believe this is just the beginning of our positive momentum.
We are confident that the continued execution of our plan by this management team will generate enhanced value for our shareholders.
With that I will now turn the call over to Dale to discuss in more detail our first quarter results and our updated full-year guidance.
Thanks Mark.
I'll focus my commentary on the first quarter results and then discuss our updated 2015 guidance.
Along with our earnings release today we also have filed a presentation which included additional color on our first quarter results.
Given the level of detail provided in the earnings release and presentation I will keep my comments brief and focus on the key areas.
Consolidated net sales for the first quarter were $739.5 million up 5.4% versus the first quarter last year.
On a constant currency basis first quarter net sales increased 9.4%.
North America net sales increased 7.5% with strong growth in the US offset slightly by a foreign exchange driven decline in Canada.
Bedding product sales increased 8% on a unit increase of 5%.
We saw good growth in both mattresses and adjustable bases in the quarter.
We also saw growth in our direct sales channel.
International net sales declined 2.6% but on a constant currency basis increased 12.8% with very strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Bedding product sales increased 14% on a constant currency basis driven by unit growth of 14%.
Other channel sales were up 30% on a constant currency basis driven by strong Tempur direct channel sales.
The first quarter consolidated adjusted gross margin was 38.5% as compared to 38.7% in the first quarter of the prior year.
On a year over year basis first quarter adjusted gross margin declined slightly primarily due to lower international segment margins and unfavorable foreign exchange of 90 basis points offset primarily by improved US margins.
North America adjusted gross margin was 35.1% up 110 basis points driven by strong US margin expansion for both Tempur-Pedic and Sealy products.
The key factors driving gross margin improvement in North America were fewer discounts and improved manufacturing efficiencies offset partially by product mix specifically adjustable bases [Technical Difficulty] and Sealy branded products 40 basis points to 52.4%.
The key factors pressuring gross margin were a higher mix of Sealy product sales in Japan and Europe which contributed more than half the decline foreign exchange which was 100 basis points and geographic mix where lower sales in Central Europe were offset with sales in other regions like Latin America.
Strong Tempur direct channel growth partially offset these pressures.
Consolidated advertising expenses of $81 million were 10.9% of net sales as compared to first quarter of last year’s $73.8 million or 10.5% of sales.
Advertising was up slightly as a percentage of sales which reflects our plan to be on air on a regular basis throughout the year and improved participation in our retail cooperative advertising programs.
We’re very pleased with the level and quality of our joint advertising initiatives as we work with our customers to improve effectiveness.
All other operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were largely unchanged on a consolidated basis.
However they were up in international due to growth in the number of direct company owned stores and infrastructure investments in Sealy Japan and Europe and were down slightly in North America.
Consolidated adjusted operating income was $68.2 million in the first quarter of 2015 or 9.2% of net sales with unfavorable foreign exchange rates impacting adjusted operating income by $8.9 million or 80 basis points.
Adjusted operating income for the first quarter of 2014 was $69.8 million or 9.9% of net sales.
North America adjusted operating margin improved 60 basis points to 11.2% and correcting for currency improved 100 basis points.
International adjusted operating margin was down 410 basis points to 18.3% and correcting for currency was down 310 basis points.
As Mark indicated the decline in international margins was expected.
The majority of the sales growth in the quarter was driven by Sealy branded sales in Latin America Europe and Japan which weighed in on mix.
Consolidated GAAP operating income was $54.4 million in the first quarter as compared to $62.4 million in the first quarter of the prior year.
Included in first quarter 2015 GAAP operating income was $11.7 million of integration cost related to the Sealy acquisition which included certain plant actions closures and openings as well as costs related to integrating Sealy into our international operations.
In addition the first quarter included $2.1 million of additional costs related to the company's 2015 Annual Meeting.
In the first quarter last year the company recorded $7.4 million of integration costs.
Interest expense was $20.4 million.
Other income was $1.3 million and included a currency benefit on a foreign denominated loan.
The first quarter pro forma tax rate was 29.4%.
Also you’ll notice in our income statement in the first quarter we have a line item titled “Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest.” This deduction to net income attributable to Tempur Sealy International Inc.
and GAAP EPS is related to our joint venture with Comfort Revolution.
Because we did not own 100% of Comfort Revolution this amount has historically included the percentage of Comfort Revolution’s accumulated earnings that we did not own.
As described in the footnote in our earnings release we’re required to recognize the cash outlay of acquiring Comfort Revolution in the expected purchase price calculated in accordance with the terms of the joint venture agreement exceed accumulated earnings of the joint venture.
We will record adjustments in future periods as necessary and it could be positive or negative.
These adjustments will not be reflected in our adjusted EBITDA or adjusted EPS.
First quarter GAAP EPS was $0.38 as compared to $0.44 per share last year.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.55 in the first quarter as compared to $0.53 in the prior year.
On a constant currency basis first quarter adjusted EPS increased 20% as foreign exchange rates negatively impacted EPS by $0.09.
Adjusted EBITDA was $90.5 million in Q1 as compared to $91.4 million in the first quarter of last year.
On a constant currency basis adjusted EBITDA grew 8% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
As of March 31 2015 the company had consolidated funded debt less qualified cash of $1.6 billion.
The ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 3.9 times down significantly from 4.6 times last year calculated in accordance with the company's senior secured credit facility.
The calculation of this ratio is included in the press release.
Now I’ll turn our attention to guidance.
Today the company updated financial guidance for 2015.
The company currently expects net sales to be in a range of $3.100 billion to $3.175 billion which reflects growth of 4% to 6% compared to 2014 and approximately a 4% headwind from 2014 based on current unfavorable foreign exchange rates.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.80 to $3.15 which included approximately $0.32 per share of unfavorable foreign exchange impact compared to 2014.
The increase in our 2015 guidance is based on the better than expected results in the first quarter of 2015 and our current outlook for the remainder of the year.
It’s important to note that our 2015 adjusted EPS guidance excludes the impact of ongoing integration cost related to the acquisition of Sealy Corporation as well as additional cost related to the company’s 2015 Annual Meeting and redemption value adjustments to the company's redeemable non-controlling interest.
In considering our guidance it’s possible that our actual performance will vary depending on the success of our new initiatives macroeconomic conditions unexpected changes in foreign exchange rates and competitive activities or the consequences of other risk factors we have identified in our press release and SEC filings.
As noted in our press release our guidance and these expectations are based on information available at the time of the release and are subject to changing conditions many of which are outside the company’s control.
Before turning the call over to Q&amp;A I’m going to turn the call back over to Mark for closing comments.
Thanks Dale.
Today Tempur Sealy is a stronger and more stable company than it has ever been.
We’re developing great products that retailers and consumers are purchasing investing our marketing dollars more effectively and positioning ourselves for substantial future growth across the world.
Our cash flows are strong and major cost reduction initiatives are underway which will improve our margins.
But today Tempur Sealy is at a critical junction.
A change in leadership at this time would inevitably result in a transition period that will put at risk the progress we’ve made to date and the initiatives that are underway and we believe would be detrimental to both on momentum and shareholder value.
We have a clear plan and strong momentum and we’re counting on the support of our shareholders as we continue to execute this plan.
With that operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brad Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets.
I wanted to first ask about raw materials and input prices and hoping you could give us a little bit of color on what that impact was in the first quarter and what your outlook is for petrochemical and steel prices through the year? As regards to commodities in the first quarter really there was no benefit from commodities.
And as we said on our first quarter call if there is benefit we don’t expect it to occur until the second half due to contractual matters that we have with our suppliers that really are designed to protect the company against price increases.
But that does give us a delay in any benefit on price decreases.
So as we look at the year as time has gone on we’re now thinking that there could be some commodity improvement in the back half of the year.
But that’s something that is not included in our current outlook because we haven’t got any yet.
Turning to the Sealy side of the business the margins on Sealy clearly is something that you all are focused on I would imagine there is a particular opportunity as we lap the Labor Day sales from last year.
Could you maybe talk about either in dollars or percentage of sales what you think that opportunity is on the Sealy side in particular this year? In the first quarter we saw Sealy US business gross margins improve 100 basis points.
We would not say that’s based on the Sealy transformation effort at this stage it’s based on strong blocking and tackling and driving efficiencies but the real longer term opportunity the significant portion of the 300 basis point opportunity we identified at our Investor Day we think will come in the coming years as opposed to little bit of benefit in the latter parts of 2015 but most of it in 2016 or beyond.
If we look at the first quarter why did Sealy do better in the first quarter a combination of things.
Just looking at basic fundamental operational improvements really a lack of operational issues in the first quarter also we had some improvement in discounts in Sealy in the first quarter based on the mix of products that were being sold.
So we feel good about where Sealy ended the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is [Bobby] filling in for Budd.
Two quick questions from me and I apologize if these are already answered I got kicked off the line and I had to get back in the queue so I missed some things.
But can you maybe comment a little bit on how the roll out for Flex and the new Sealy products has gone and what percentage of that roll out is complete? It's going well in the sense that it's on schedule and it's going out as we expected.
The bulk of the roll out is happening in the second quarter.
So we got some distribution of Flex in the last part of the first quarter but the bulk of the distribution is happening this quarter.
And so it's early.
What we've seen is we now have a better view to what number of floor models that we expect to get.
So we have a better – you never know until it's finally all distributed but we have a better view to it.
And both on Flex and on Posturepedic we're looking at getting higher levels of floor models than we had thought and double-digit levels of higher floor models than we had thought.
So so far so good.
The initial distribution where we have distribution particularly in Flex because it's a relatively – it was out first is going quite well.
And in some chains where it is it is taking quite significant part of the total balance of share.
And we are getting – it's too early to tell but it's certainly a good – it's a good place to be standing here right now.
And then Dale maybe given those comments about the roll out coming in the second quarter how should we think about gross margins for the North America segment when we look at our models here for the second quarter? In looking at last year the roll out this year obviously on the Tempur side is smaller than the roll out last year that was part of the improvement in Tempur gross margins in the first quarter it will continue to be a factor in the Tempur gross margins in the second quarter.
So Tempur margins should be better than last year.
On the Sealy side Posturepedic is a very large roll out.
It's a little bit less expensive roll out on a per unit basis than Stearns &amp; Foster but there is a lot more units.
And so for Sealy in the second quarter you should anticipate a second quarter with a significant impact from floor models because the bulk of the Posturepedic roll out is in the second quarter.
[indiscernible] to last year where most of the Stearns &amp; Foster and Optimum roll out were in the second quarter but Sealy is a higher volume Posturepedic has a much higher volume than those roll outs combined.
So overall we would look for improvement on a year over year basis in the second quarter.
In total North America we expect to see improvement in margins we need to temper those expectations a little bit just because there is big roll out effect just not as big effect as last year.
And then lastly from me can you maybe talk about what your expectations for the adjustable base growth is for the remaining of the year into your sales guidance we just start to lap some of the high growth comparisons sometime this year right? Yeah adjustables really took off in the second half of the year last year.
We saw a good growth in every quarter on adjustables last year but where it really took off was in the latter stages of last year I would say that adjustables continued to grow even on a sequential basis.
So that's a good thing that's a very positive thing for the business.
But the compares get easier the impact gets lessened as the year progresses because we don't expect the same level of growth rate this year that we saw last year.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
A little bit more color on the gross margins in North America for Tempur if you wouldn't mind specifically how much of that 300 basis points improvement did you get from price increases and how do you expect that to benefit your gross margins going forward? The impact of pricing in the first quarter was limited there was a small amount of pricing in the first quarter the related to adjustables because we had raised some price on adjustables last year in the fall so there's a little bit of impact there.
The Tempur mattress price increase that went into effect in March obviously very limited impact since it was just in the latter stages of the quarter.
But we do see improvement in price in Tempur in the first quarter just because of the new product.
If you remember last year we had price actually reduction in the first quarter last year where we had closed out the pricing on the old product line where we had a small discount on the old product line to help retailers get rid of it so just every unit that was sold in the first quarter this year was sold at a better price because it didn't have that pricing from the year ago.
So when you look at it on a prospective basis going forward would you expect your Tempur-Pedic US gross margins to be as strong in coming quarters? Yeah we expect Tempur margin growth to continue to be very strong on a year over year basis.
Now it's not going to be 300 basis points possibly every quarter we saw significant improvement in Tempur margins in the second half of 2014 as we got the new product line out and got it established and started getting volume on it but we continue to expect to see improvements in our operational cost the factory cost related to Tempur as we continue to go up that learning curve of getting the – producing those new products.
We expect to continue to – we have a small price increase coming again in Tempur in May which will provide impact in the second half of the year obviously the March price increase will have impact across second third and fourth quarters.
So there's a lot of really good things going and a lot of good momentum on the Tempur brand that we expect to have a very strong margin year in Tempur in 2015.
It's off to a great start.
It ended 2014 very good with great momentum and that's continuing.
Last question on the topic of the price increase early days but with the price increase in March have you seen any negative effects on volume? As you said it is early days but candidly no.
So far as I said it's early days we have to be careful but no.
And frankly that is what made it apparent to us that it made sense to take another small increase which is going to kick in in May.
And remember really what we're talking about with price increases is the strength of the brand.
And so far as one can take a price increase and the retailers support and the consumers are prepared to make that little bit extra investment it does talk to the strength of the brand.
And so we are pleased to see that we are able to do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
I wanted to ask just about the international segment so I can understand some of the margin pressure with the Sealy launch.
It sounded like you expected improvement in the back half are you expecting is it sequential improvement or are we going to a point where by back half international is actually now going to start trending up year on year? We are talking about from a margin improvement in the back half of international versus what we will see in the first half.
We've said that we are going to see margin pressure in the international business in 2015 as we launch and roll out Sealy and Stearns in Europe and in Japan.
Those are lower gross margin products.
And in the first half of the year in particular you're going to have a lot of pressure – there is lot of floor models.
So as we're broadening the distribution of those products here in the first half you have a lot of floor model impact.
So as we get into the second half and you get more to a normal margin we will see significant second half to first half improvement also as volume picks up we'll see better flow through to operating margin internationally because A we do have the floor model discounts as much and B as we get more volume we did have to add some infrastructure internationally related to Sealy and Stearns rolling out but we didn't have to add much.
So essentially once you get up to a decent volume on that business you're leveraging to a great extent the existing infrastructure on Tempur.
So we expect from an operating margin standpoint for Sealy to be negative internationally in the first half but improving a little bit each quarter such that for the year it will be positive for international and in terms of its total its bottom line contribution to international accretive from a rate stand point but positive.
And we'll see that improvement this year and going into 2016 without the big launch effort we should see a difficult improvement in margin rates of the Sealy business within international and there we're specifically talking Japan and Europe.
Obviously Latin America we're seeing good growth in the Sealy businesses that already operate there and that growth is very beneficial.
I guess in a related topic when you're talking about the Sealy cost in the roll out by the way I appreciate the additional disclosures in the press release so we can now see the Sealy integration costs this year versus last year and they are nearly doubled this year what they were last year I think about $13.8 million this year versus $7.5 million last year.
Could you help us understand at this juncture couple of years into the purchase those integration costs are still moving up quite a bit? Yeah the key there is in 2013 mostly what we were experiencing was transaction related activities just the beginning of the integration.
In 2014 what we saw was organizational integration combining organizations you had some retention programs to keep people there was some severance programs there was move programs as we're trying moving people physically to get the organizations together really what you're seeing in the latter part of 2014 and 2015 and will continue actually into 2016 is structural change.
We've talked a lot about the project to re-do our distribution systems so that we have merged centers and we can ship Tempur and Sealy on the same truck and significant savings that that is generating where we have it but it's still rolling out.
Also late in 2014 and what we're seeing in 2015 is related to some of those structural changes that we are making in regards to plants.
So we're opening a new plant in Indianapolis we announced that we are closing a plant in Batavia.
So the opening and closing aspects are flowing in and the cost associated with that is rolling into integration.
We just recently announced that we're opening another plant actually moving a plant because it's not big enough and the new location will give us the ability to have more space to handle the volume but also have a merged center right there with the plant and that's in Maryland.
So right now we are getting into some structural stuff.
The organizational integration is complete.
Now the structural things are really – the rubber is really hitting the road and that's what is driving the integration cost.
And then lastly from me maybe for Dale or for Mark the foreign currency drag obviously we know it's substantial.
I guess the question has come up recently about why the company doesn't hedge away some of that currency risk? And I guess could you address that what that decision was to not ever hedge or it once turned out to be a big negative impact here? Actually we do hedge.
In retrospect maybe we should have hedged more but we do hedge.
We did have hedges on the Canadian business we do have hedges on transactional exposure in the rest of our global business.
It's impossible to hedge translation.
So in 2015 a major factor of what's impacting the current foreign currency impact is translation as opposed to transactional – Canada for example we've explained part of the issue with Canada is a significant portion of the product cost is in US dollars in Canada.
So as the Canadian dollar weakens it is creating a big margin squeeze because the cost is stable.
We had hedges in Canada in retrospect it might have been good to have higher level of hedging.
The currencies had basically been flat for almost 10 years and then suddenly they moved in a big way.
They are never flat but they fluctuate up and down a little bit.
And so currency has never been a big factor but then suddenly in 2014 big moves in currencies we're looking at some structural things to make some adjustments to maybe try to get us a little bit better positioned to be able to manage currency and you can never totally protect yourself from currency because even if you have a little more hedge program you can only hedge out so far.
And ultimately you're going to get the impact of that currency you may just delay it kind of like on commodities.
Our commodity contracts are structured to protect us against price increases.
So when prices are going down it delays getting that gratification.
Same thing with currencies although it's not quite as easy to do we have hired a new Treasurer who has significant experience in exposure on global hedging programs and that's something that he is getting all over.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Actually I had follow-ups to both Peter's questions.
The first one was on the European transnational headwind you've got with the euro.
If this settles in with the rate cuts there and then on the bond buying program this might be a more permanent situation I was just curious whether you've contemplated any actions there on pricing or otherwise or is the competition there local and you really can't be much about it? The competition is largely local I mean there are anomalies like in Switzerland where there has been some movements relative to the euro where there we have been able to take pricing and there are things that you can do.
But in general we had to have pricing down.
I mean my point is you can move a bit but in general competition is local.
I think as Dale was saying there is the translation concern but there is also the intercompany concerns because all of our products essentially is made in Denmark and is shipped all of Europe and then all over the world.
And so how we hedge within that is something we are looking at doing.
Pricing is something that we’re looking at and we will look at for example pricing on sizes rather than across the board.
But it is not – we don’t have the situation in Europe that we have in America with the unilateral pricing.
So pricing is always a harder thing to do in Europe.
And then I know you don’t report at this way anymore but is there a way to get a feel for the Tempur International or more specifically I guess Tempur Europe margin you mentioned Central Europe is tough but just trying to get a feel for either margin performance earnings performance or Tempur International without all of the Sealy European ramp Japanese ramp et cetera? Not specific to Central Europe but all Tempur International if you back out the Sealy roll out half of the decline was related to the roll out of Sealy in Japan and Europe.
Another 100 basis points as we said was FX.
So geographic mix is the remainder.
It’s a small amount not that large but there is some negative geographic mix where we’re seeing growth in Latin America we are seeing growth in Asia.
Europe broadly we saw a little bit of growth in Europe but that was in countries other than Germanic region that we’ve talked about before.
So Tempur direct channel is continuing to grow but as we add stores that adds cost and then in a little bit of time it actually then take a long time it’s a matter of months but as you add stores it’s a drain on your – from a operating margin standpoint until our stores get to a breakeven point and actually they get to a profitability point pretty easy.
But the big drivers if you want to try to see Tempur to Tempur the gross margin reduction half of it is related to Sealy and then another 100 basis points is related to FX.
And my last question quickly just back to the integration cost I guess they were $4 million in corporate $8.5 million in Sealy sort of $12.5 million in the first quarter.
Any sense Dale for where that will be for 2015 and 2016 just if not exact directionally? It’s hard to give you an exact because certainly these infrastructure projects where we have an idea on some of them are not fully decided for a lot of reasons I’m sure that you could understand things that impact people things that impact plans you have to be very cognizant of the timing of when those decisions are ultimately made there is bargaining issues et cetera.
But in general we would anticipate that the integration cost should begin to moderate.
As we said at the end of last year using one project as an example the distribution realignment we said by the end of year last year was about 60% complete.
It will be essentially complete by the end of this year.
So as the year goes on the cost associated with this distribution realignment will get less.
As we get further into the Sealy transformation we’ll see if that requires something that we don’t currently have planned.
But we’ll have to continue to look at where the opportunities are but these infrastructure things are large but should start to wane.
It’s important to understand that we’ve got a lot of growth going on and we are trying to at the same time optimize the cost in the business.
And those moves and structure changes cost money.
Our next question comes from the line of Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities.
My first question is about the North American sales growth and I was just wondering if you could give us any context on how the underlying environment performed versus your expectations and maybe how you think about market share shifts versus rising tide impact? I think that there is a bit of a rising tide there’s a little bit of a rising tide however it was affected by some bumps at the beginning of the quarter because of the weather.
And there is a degree of buoyancy in it but I think that we don't have any actual data on market share.
But I would say that we would anticipate that we’ve gained some share in this quarter.
What we think though is as we go into – I think the key here is going to be we’re comparing a year last year which was very different in many ways.
Last year we were in a sellout mode because our retailers were getting rid of the old products and we were discounting the old products and bringing in new.
Now we’re on a lasting basis and now the new Flex and Posturepedic are rolling out.
So where we’re really going to keep our eye on this is in the second quarter.
My second question is just on the marketing expense and just how we should – is 40 basis point of deleverage a good benchmark to think about for the remainder of the year and are there any other major moving buckets within SG&amp;A to think about as we model? On advertising if you look back basically in the first quarter we spent right about the same level that we spent in the second half of last year.
So really the first quarter of 2014 it was our lowest advertising quarter of the year and that really was a function of the transition.
We weren’t advertising a lot because we were getting rid of old stuff and the new stuff weren’t out.
So we picked up the advertising in the second quarter continued to driving it in the back half of the year.
From a sequential basis I think the first quarter is almost spot on from a percentage standpoint or even from a dollar standpoint where the fourth quarter was.
We want to have our advertising to be more level that we wanted to be always on.
Absolutely that’s your area of expertise.
The point is there are a couple of things.
The key point is that what we talked about last year was the benefit that we saw in the second half of last year was the ‘always on’ strategy which we had – if you remember we had in previous years spiked the advertising to tie into the promotional periods.
And what we discovered it to be true in the second half of last year was the ‘always on’ advertising.
So what you’ll see is a very consistent rate of advertising from this quarter versus last fourth quarter and third quarter and we’ll continue that going forward.
And therefore the difference in the second part of the year will be best marked because we essentially lack again in the second part of the year.
The other thing is that we’re also working hard to make sure that our advertising and our retailers’ advertising is coordinated what in timing and in message.
And that too adds to the sense of always on.
So it’s a continuation of the strategy we had at the end of last year.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Just one of the Sealy roll out in Europe could you talk a little bit about maybe how many doors Sealy is in right now and geographically where you have Sealy if it’s Germany or beyond Germany at this point? It’s in several of the German-speaking countries it is in Germany it’s in Benelux it’s in France and we expect by the end of the year to have approximately 1 000 doors.
And we said that before we still think that’s the plan that we’re on.
As we said the supply chain now is up and running with the new supplier that’s now in full distribution.
So we’re still on track for what we thought.
But we’re not going to give guidelines of – we’re not saying where we’re right this minute we haven’t got that number so we’re going to publish.
But we’re on track for the 1 000.
Are you able to say what the contribution was from Sealy in Continental Europe and Japan? Combine for the two we saw about $7.5 million in the first quarter related to Sealy Europe and Japan and that was about 50/50.
You got to remember Japan has more of an established business.
So it was slightly larger than Europe.
That shows that Europe now that we’ve got a go and it’s starting off at a pretty good pace and it’s a significant improvement from what we saw in the third quarter and fourth quarter last year where Europe was almost non-existent given the start up issues we had with the old manufacturer and then we switched to the new manufacturer in the first quarter and feel good about the opportunities that we have ahead of us there.
And then just a quick one from me you talked about gross margins in Tempur North America and Sealy North America being up on a year over year basis was that the same for EBIT margins as well? Yeah the US margins were up.
Let me find that number right here from a North American standpoint on a constant currency basis adjusted operating margin is up 100 basis points on a constant currency basis it’s 60 basis points on an actual operating margin.
And just to make sure I heard it correctly both Sealy and Tempur were up on the EBIT side? The thing is we can’t give you a Tempur or Sealy operating margin.
We can still see and understand that gross margin for the Tempur brand and Sealy brands but the operating costs are so intertwined right now you can’t split them which is why we have new segment reporting because we’re required to be able to split the business in a way that the business is run today it’s run as one business.
And so the segments have to reflect how it’s run.
And as we integrated the business we can’t distinguish between who works for Sealy and who works for Tempur anymore.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Just a follow-up to the Europe comment this 1 000 stores that you’re looking to get Sealy into what percentage of the Tempur locations does that represent? From a Continental Europe that would be between 25% of the stores that Tempur is in.
Do you have any kind of feel yet or slots you’re getting as compared to your number of Tempur slots in those locations more or less? The number of slots first of all we’re going from about a third of the number of stores this year.
Ultimately for Sealy we think we’ll have as many stores carrying Sealy as we will have carrying Tempur although there won’t be a perfect overlap.
There will be some that carries Sealy that don’t carry Tempur.
But we’ll have about the same number.
But in terms of the number of slots we are expecting two to three from Sealy and one to two from Tempur.
By the way just to be clear Stearns will not be in the 1 000 stores.
Sealy is going to be in the 1 000 stores Stearns will be in less than 1 000 stores.
And our next question comes from the line of Denise Chai with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just going back to adjustable bases could you update us with where you are in your plans to create a global platform to lower your component costs? There is a big program and that is well underway but that is not something that we – where we have announced when we’re going to launch that yet but that is – I think it’s safe to say that will be next year.
And also you commented on a lack of Sealy operational issues this quarter could you go into some detail about the specific actions that were behind that? I think that we’re very focused obviously on the margin improvements that we’re seeing in Sealy that we intend to generate at Sealy to get to 300 basis points that we’ve talked about and we’ve laid out the strategy and the plan that transformation plan to achieve it.
But we’ve also talked a lot about the first step of that which is just basic blocking and tackling and a focus by all of the people throughout the organization from the most senior down to the people in the plant on this everything from inventory control to costs to cleanliness to using – implementing 5S to improving work practices so that we reduce injuries and so on lot of things that are going on.
And we’re doing some things like experimenting with level loading.
We’ve talked a lot about level loading and we’ve said it’s going to take time.
What I think is that – this is very good management focus we’ve just been on it.
I’m showing no further questions on the phone lines at this time.
I’d like to turn the call back over to Mark Sarvary for closing remarks.
Okay very good.
Thank you very much everybody for joining us and we look forward to talking to you again in July on our second quarter earnings call.
Thanks for joining us this evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will have a question-and-answer session later on and the instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference may be recorded.
Now I would like to welcome our host for today's conference Mr.
Mark Rupe.
Please begin.
Thanks Carmen.
Good evening and thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me at our Lexington headquarters are Tim Yaggi Interim President and CEO Dale Williams EVP and CFO and Barry Hytinen EVP Financing Corporate Development.
After our prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investor are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales earnings or adjusted net income or the integration with Sealy involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
The press release which contains reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and information regarding the methodology used for constant currency presentation is posted on the company's website at tempursealy.com and filed with the SEC.
In connection with the conference call the company has prepared an investor presentation which has been filed with the SEC and is also available on the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
Management comments today will supplement the detailed information provided in both the press release and the investor presentation.
With that introduction I'll turn the call over to Tim Yaggi.
Thanks Mark and good evening everyone.
Tonight we will review our second quarter results give you an update on the progress we're making on our key strategic initiatives and view our updated full year 2015 financial outlook.
We had a solid second quarter with sales and earnings coming in ahead of plan.
Net sales were up approximately 7%.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 16% and adjusted EPS was up 36%.
And in constant currency sales were up 11% adjusted EBITDA was up 21% and adjusted EPS up 46%.
Margins showed significant improvement.
Adjusted operating margin increased 140 basis points and our adjusted contribution margin was 29%.
Our North America adjusted contribution margin was 36% offset by international which was driven by higher sales of Sealy products.
In terms of our outlook our key strategic focus areas are to strengthen our industry-leading brand our ultimate goal to consistently increase our earnings quarter-after-quarter as we make progress against these initiatives.
And we are building our brand.
In the second quarter we spent more in advertising we had a compelling message and we achieved better media buying efficiency.
The benefits were clear site traffic and searches for retail locations to buy our products increased significantly and led to strong sales strong sales growth in Tempur-Pedic share gains.
We're also pleased with the level quality and participation in our joint advertising initiatives as we work with our customers to improve effectiveness.
Our product innovation continues to deliver success.
We identified an opportunity to broaden the reach of our Tempur-Pedic brand with a third field.
Most consumers sleep on and innerspring mattress.
The new TEMPUR-Flex products combined the more familiar feel of an innerspring product with the benefits of temper Tempur material.
We had good launch execution and FLEX is off to a very strong start with favorable reaction from customers and consumers.
We believe this provides us with a multi-year opportunity to grow our business.
And our 2015 Posturepedic product launch we recommitted to what Sealy Posturepedic is known for back support adding new support features that consumers have responded to.
The new Posturepedic is off to a good start with sales benefiting from a more favorable mix of high-end models like hybrid which should benefit Posturepedic pricing for the balance of the year.
Internationally the rollout of Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster is progressing.
These products are differentiated from the offerings in Europe and are starting to gain attraction.
We are confident in the appeal of these products and believe it represents another multi-year opportunity for sales and earnings growth.
For the Tempur brand we are ramping up our product development pipeline for 2016 with the goal to have a positive impact internationally by leveraging the North America strategy.
Given the investment we're making in our brands and products we believe we have a multi-year opportunity to further optimize pricing and trade spending.
Our pricing actions in the first half of 2015 on select Tempur-Pedic mattresses we will continue to seek additional opportunities where appropriate.
We are also focused on improving the effectiveness of our trade spends.
And lastly we have an enhanced focus on cost which is a top priority for the company.
We have a number of cost initiatives in place and were making good progress.
One of these is to improve productivity in our Sealy assembly facility.
You may recall that in the third quarter of last year we had significant volume in share gains which created operational challenges.
One of the solutions was to begin building inventory of high selling SKUs ahead of major holidays.
I'm pleased to report that this process helped us to reduce over time in shipping costs and improved customer fill rates around the 4th of July holiday.
We expect further improvements as we increase this capability in the future.
In addition we are defining and then embedding best practices across our manufacturing footprint.
This should enable our lower performing plants to approach the productivity of our high performing plants.
We recently opened our second multi-purpose facility in Hagerstown Maryland.
This follows the successful opening of a new facility in Indianapolis earlier this year.
Both of these new facilities have improved layouts and equipment for mattress building and function as mega-centers that merged Sealy and Tempur-Pedic shipments to improve logistics efficiency.
I'm also excited about our initiatives to reduce costs through optimize product design as well as reduce SKU complexity as we communicated previously many of these initiatives will take some time but we are very confident that we will significantly improve Sealy's U.S.
margins.
So in summary we are pleased with our second quarter results and our improved outlook for 2015.
We're making very good progress on our strategic initiatives and we have significant opportunities still in front of us.
I'm very pleased with the focus and dedication of our leadership team and of all 7 100 TemperSealy employees our team is engaged in working together to deliver on our commitments and we believe this will translate into enhanced value for our stockholders.
Before turning the call over to Dale I want to spend a moment to address the leadership transition we announced earlier today.
The company appointed Barry Hytinen to EVP and Chief Financial Officer succeeding Dale Williams.
Gary is a highly respected member of our management team and is currently managing the finance organization in North America as well as the company's global corporate development initiatives.
I've worked closely with Barry since joining the company and he's been a great partner and successfully turning around the North American business.
I look forward to Barry's continued contribution to our organizing as CFO.
I would like to thank Dale for his leadership and contributions to the organization as many of you know Dale lead the company through its IPO in 2003 and has played an instrumental role in the company's significant growth over the past 12 years.
Dale will remain with the company until August 31 to ensure a smooth transition.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dale.
Thanks Tim.
I have thoroughly enjoyed my time here.
We have achieved a great deal over the last 12 years and it wouldn't have been possible without having great products and a team of passionate and dedicated employees focused on growing the business throughout the world.
TemperSealy's opportunity is substantial and I'm confident that Barry's leadership as CFO will drive additional value for TemperSealy stockholders in the years to come.
I am very pleased to make this transition as the business performance has improved and is on the right track.
I would now focus my commentary on the second quarter results I'm going to turn it over to Barry to discuss our updated full year guidance.
Consolidated net sales for the second quarter were $764.4 million up 6.9% versus the second quarter last year and on a constant currency basis up 10.9%.
Adjusted gross margin improved 180 basis points to 39.4%.
Adjusted operating margin improved 140 basis points to 9.2%.
Margin improvement was driven principally by the North America business segment.
A discussion of adjusted operating income and margin excludes $6.7 million of integration costs as well as $11.7 million of additional costs related to the company's 2015 Annual Meeting the CEO transition and related retention expense.
As disclosed in the release the majority of the integration costs occurred North America and included costs related to the transition of manufacturing facilities and distribution networks.
In North America net sales increased 9.1% and on a constant currency basis were up 10.2%.
Strong growth of 11% in the U.S.
was driven by high teen’s growth for Tempur-Pedic's brand and mid-single-digit growth for the Sealy brands.
Our growth in the U.S.
was offset slightly by a foreign exchange driven decline in Canada.
Canada sales were down 7.8% but up 3.9% on a constant currency basis.
Tempur-Pedic's growth in North America was driven by strong demand for the new FLEX products as well as adjustable bases and Breeze while Sealy's growth was driven principally by the new Posturepedic collection.
Bedding product sales increased 10.4% on a unit increase of 3%.
With positive price growth resulting from higher mix of Tempur-Pedic sales during the period in recent pricing actions.
North America adjusted operating margin improved 230 basis points to 11.2% as a result of a 280 basis point increase in adjusted gross margin of 36.6%.
Improvement was driven principally by higher Tempur-Pedic US gross margins which increase significantly for manufacturing and supply chain efficiencies fewer floor model discounts cost productivity and pricing offset partially by product mix.
Sealy U.S.
gross margins were down slightly in the quarter compared to last year as our productivity initiatives were offset by product mix in our extensive rollout of new Posturepedic floor models.
As we look to the balance of the year we expect Sealy's margins to improve due to the new Posturepedic line being fully rolled out in less floor model discounts as well as due to our cost productivity initiatives that are underway.
North America advertising expense was higher as we supported the new FLEX rollout with higher national advertising and had more branded - cooperative retailer advertising.
Other selling and marketing expenses were lower as we laughed last year significant in-store marketing investments that supported the Tempur Cloud and Contour product launches.
And international net sales declined 2.2% on a constant currency basis were up 14.1% with continued growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America as well as Europe.
Asia-Pacific results benefited from higher Tempur brand sales as well as the contribution from Sealy sales in Japan.
Latin American sales increase was driven largely by Sealy sales in Mexico and Argentina.
Bedding product sales declined 2.6% on a constant currency basis were up 13.5% on a unit increase of 13%.
Other channel sales were up 28% on a constant currency basis driven by strong Tempur direct sales.
International adjusted operating margin was down 90 basis is to 18.1% driven by a 100 basis point reduction in gross margin to 52.3%.
The decline in margin is principally because of a higher mix of Sealy product sales as well as geographic mix.
The majority of the sales growth in the quarter was driven by Sealy branded sales in Latin America Europe and Japan which had lower margins.
Adjusted corporate expenses were higher in the second quarter due primarily to increase stock compensation.
As you will remember in the second quarter of 2014 we reported a $3 million benefit related to long-term incentives compensation which lowered last year's comparisons.
Interest expense was $20.5 million for the quarter.
Other expense was $2.2 million and included a currency impact on foreign denominated loans.
Second quarter GAAP earnings-per-share was $0.34 as compared to a $0.04 per share loss last year.
Adjusted earnings-per-share increased 36% to $0.53 on a constant currency basis increased 46% as foreign exchange rates negatively impacted earnings-per-share by $0.04.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 16% to $90.3 million in Q2 and on a constant currency basis increased 21% as foreign exchange negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA by $4 million.
As it relates to cash flow year-to-date cash flows are down versus last year due to timing of several working capital items.
This was expected and cash flow was actually ahead of plan.
We're planning for significant operating and free cash flow generation in the second half similar to the second half ramp experience in 2014.
Our leverage continue to improve and as of June 30 the ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to EBITDA for financial covenant purposes was 3.8 times as compared to 4.3 times the same period one year ago.
We expect to be approaching our three times leverage target by the end of this year for the first quarter of 2016.
In light of the continued favorable interest rate environment and as we approach our optimal leverage level we will continue to evaluate opportunities to improve our debt structure with an objective to move more of our debt to a fixed-rate.
As mentioned in the past we approach our target leverage level we will assess whether debt pay down is the optimal allocation of cash flow.
I'll now turn the call over to Barry to discuss our updated financial guidance.
Thanks Dale and thank you both for your very supportive comments and Dale sincere thanks for your leadership over so many years.
I am very pleased and excited to lead our global financial organization and look forward to interacting with the investment community in the coming weeks ahead.
Today the company updated financial guidance for 2015.
The company currently expects net sales to be in a range of 3.125 billion to 3.175 billion which reflects growth of 4.5% to 6% compared to 2014 and approximately a 3.5% headwind from foreign exchange and adjusted EPS to be in a range of $3.00 to $3.20 which reflects growth of 13% to 21% compared to 2014 and approximately a $0.30 impact from unfavorable foreign exchange.
The increase in our 2015 guidance is based on the better-than-expected results in the second quarter in our current outlook for the remainder of the year.
In the second half we expect continued solid growth in sales margins and earnings.
Similar to the last year we are expecting margins in earnings to increase in the second half relative to the first as seasonality strengthens and product heavy investments that occur early in the year dissipate.
It is important to note that our guidance is based on adjusted figures in dependent on the factors that Mark discussed at the beginning of tonight call.
In closing we had a solid second-quarter with results ahead of plan.
The key pillars of our strategy are working our advertising messages compelling and has been effective in our new product innovation has been successful.
Our enhanced focus on cost is beginning to pay off as evidenced by the increased flow-through of our revenue to profit.
We have significant opportunities ahead of us and we are focused on delivering on our commitments.
And with that Carmen would you please open the line for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Seth Basham from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hi Seth good afternoon.
My first question is on the TEMPUR-Flex it seems like you've had a good launch of that new product.
You quantified some of the expected opportunities in various places and parts around the world could you help us think about what the long-term product outlook is there? How many millions of dollars of sales you think that can do annually? Well set we're very pleased with the launch of Flex.
We think it has done exactly what we had hoped it would do and plan for to do which is to expand the reach of the Tempur brand.
We have many people who aspired to buy the Tempur brand but didn't really like the field of Cloud or Contour and we had the opportunity to deliver a feel that was more responsive.
But still have that Tempur benefit and so it has been appealing and the strategy was to try to bring as many people as possible from below $2000 to about $2000.
Previously if you wanted Tempur but you didn't like that feel you would tend to drop down to a lower price point product.
Now our trade customers and ourselves have the opportunity to sell a more premium bed.
So that strategy is working with like I said it's off to a great start.
I think it's fairly early to try to quantify what kind of upside we have and how much of the lift is going to be incremental versus some amount of cannibalism.
And also internationally I think there are long-term opportunities but we have yet to quantify that.
Okay.
That's helpful perspective.
One follow-up related to the Flex.
You probably spent a lot of advertising launching it as you think that your advertising plans for the year are you still staying the same rate of percentage of sales? Yeah.
The rate was actually a bit higher in the second quarter for two reasons.
One it was our belief that it was really good product news.
We wanted to get behind it and shout about it and make sure that Flex got off to a great start which it has.
So that was one driver.
And the second driver is you'll see a little bit more of spending in the bucket that we call integrated advertising which is the advertising we do jointly with our customers.
And our philosophy is we want to make those dollars work harder and move more of the price based kind of spends to grand building kind of spend.
So as we do that we can then track it as advertising measure it and make sure we're getting the spending rate and performance that we expect to get out of it.
So it's back to our strategy of making our trade spending work harder so that's a little bit why you saw the greater spending Q2 as well.
For the second half it will be not as high as what's in the second quarter but a little bit elevated compared to what we've guided earlier.
Got it.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And good luck and good luck to you Dale.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Good afternoon.
I guess I became Italian quickly.
First of all Dale good luck to you.
Barry congratulations to you on your new role.
I guess my question - my first question is on the Sealy progress inside the plant I know you said you - Tim I think you said you started the new Hagerstown plant can you talk a little bit about where we are in getting the same equipment footprint in the remaining plants and getting to a level where you can actually measure and maybe implement best practices.
Sure.
The two new plants and they were built from the ground up.
It's important that they're both reflective of improved equipment and layout but they are also importantly mega facility so we get the benefit of combining shipments as well.
And every time we take learning's from the new facility we decide what we can do differently in terms of both layout and equipment investments in the other plants.
But it's not just about equipment investments there are a number in my view good lean best practices that we can identify defined and then bring to the other plants.
I think there was a fair amount of lean disciplined in the past that perhaps we got away from as the great recession occurred in times got a little tough and we squeezed some personnel out.
And I think we with a little bit of reinvestment and commitment to lean we can deploy best practices.
So - but we're in the process of defining those and starting to roll those out.
And in fact I can tell you we have 15 plants and I would say 12 to 13 of them showed progress in the recent period.
We have a couple that are laggards that we've intensely gone after.
We sent some of our most seasoned veterans down to a plant in Texas for example.
And in the last few weeks we've seen a lot of progress there.
So I'm encouraged that we're seeing good progress and while it is a process we're very confident that we're going to get to the U.S.
Sealy margins that we had previously communicated.
Okay.
And my follow-up really has to do with the balance of the leadership transition that you're in progress and I realize it's a little bit maybe uncomfortable to ask or answer this question given your interim status in the retention bonuses retention payments that were made.
And I think other agreements that were done.
But where are we at it seems to me we're approaching 90 days from the date of that and as I recall during the time of the arguments were going on we were told or the investment community was told that we're talking to a lot of people we're talking to people and I think the plan was to go there the communication was the inference was that we're going to have some better timing of that were sooner than later.
Where are we on that? What's can the investors expect over the next short period of time? Sure.
But well obviously the Board formed the committee to run the search.
And I can tell you that they are actively viewing and bedding candidates.
It is a process and of course they want to make the right decisions.
I don't have any updates for you on timing and what I can assure you thought is that this team is incredibly focused on executing our strategy delivering our commitments.
I feel like we have prioritized the initiatives that are going to that are the most - matter the most in terms of driving value.
And you might think that there's some distraction but there isn't.
We're focused.
We're aligned.
We feel good about the quarter.
We feel good about the back half and that's the way we're operating.
Okay.
Good luck to you on the balance of the year.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question is from the line of Josh Borstein from Longbow Research.
Good afternoon everyone and congrats on a nice quarter.
Thank you.
Dale thank you for your service.
It's been nice working with you and Barry welcome to your new role.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Just a question on the roll out of Sealy in Europe and Japan.
Just could you go over what any newer in the rollout if it's in all the countries right now that you want or all the doors that you want? I would say it's still relatively early.
We didn't see a whole lot of traction.
We started to see a little bit of improvement towards the backend of the quarter and into July.
But as you know we had some issues with delivery of the products early on.
And so the team has now had to reinvigorate basically the channels to get them excited again about the product.
I was in Europe recently with the team and I can tell you that there is still excitement that the product is differentiated from typical offerings in Europe and it's still compelling.
But we have to kind of reinvigorate the excitement around our customers.
So lots of work to do there.
It's still an early days.
But the team believes that long-term this is still a very good opportunity.
And are all the contract manufacturer issues now work through? Yes.
Absolutely.
Okay great and then just one follow-up for you with respect to the guidance raise on the top line.
Where is the outperformance coming from that gives you the confidence to raise the revenue guide? Sure Josh.
Our North American business has been strong and as Tim mentioned we outperformed in the second quarter.
We have a positive bias is related to FLEX and Posturepedic and that is the principal driver as we think about the second half.
Okay.
So it sounds like North America is where the outperformance and within that it's FLEX and it's Sealy Posturepedic? Right I would say overall the Tempur business was very strong.
FLEX was certainly a big piece of it but we got some really nice efficiencies in our factory.
Cost productivity we talk about in Sealy but it's important in Tempur too.
We leverage the volume nicely in the plant.
We've got the benefit of pricing so a number of factors drove a really nice improvement in Tempur.
And so we feel really good about that business.
Thank you for that and good luck in 3Q here.
Thank you.
And your next question is from the line of Brad Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Dale best wishes and Barry congratulations.
I was hoping we could maybe talk about gross margin and some of the puts and the stakes here for this quarter? Sure if we look at the second quarter gross margin performance was pretty good for the overall business.
And the gross margin as I said in my prepared remarks internationally gross margin was down a little bit from a North America standpoint we saw good improvement in gross margin depending on if you want to look at it on recorded or constant currency.
But outstanding performance there gross margins in the U.S.
in North America up 280 basis points.
International was down 140.
If you look at the U.S.
gross margins were up quite a bit and we mentioned that Sealy margin was actually negative.
But that implies is the Tempur margins were up significantly to the tune of over 600 basis points.
And the drivers of that improvement in Tempur was the productivity in the plants in the volume.
We talk a lot about the integration related to distribution well a lot of that benefit accrues to Tempur because it's the Tempur products that are now writing on Sealy trucks and it makes Tempur's transportation costs much less.
You also have the price increases in Tempur et cetera.
So there are a lot of very strong improvements in the Tempur margin that makes us feel very good about the progress there.
Great.
And how are you thinking about gross margin for the third quarter and maybe specifically would you seeing in terms of the input costs? I'll take that in reverse order Brad.
From a standpoint of commodities and input costs we did experience a slight benefit in the second quarter as you might recall we had some unfavorability actually from commodities in the first quarter and so that favorability continues to ramp we've actually included in our updated guidance several million of benefit from commodities in the remainder of the year.
And as it relates to guidance for gross margin I think at the beginning of the year we indicated that we thought it be right around 40% and were at probably a tip ahead of that for the full year as the way we're thinking about it.
Great.
Thank you so much.
And our next question comes from Peter Keith from Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Hey thanks a lot and congrats on the nice results everyone.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the Tempur progress in Europe.
I know it's been one area of sluggishness.
Has there been any uptick or signs of improvement as you kind of coming out of Q2 and into Q3 for the Tempur European business specifically? No.
While we're very bullish about FLEX in the results here we haven't seen as much of a good environment certainly in Europe for example in Germany while we're starting to see a little bit of recovery it tends to be at the low end of the business as opposed to recovery in the premium segment.
So as we think about our outlook were a little bit more bullish on the U.S.
and a little bit more conservative right now on our international business mainly due to the environment.
Okay.
Thank you Tim.
And just thinking about the price increases that are been incorporated I believe you did one in March in another smaller follow-on in May.
At the Analyst Day earlier this year you thought it would be about a $25 million benefit from the price increases where do we stand now that you've had are we so it 25 or is that a little bit bigger number? Actually we're a little bit bigger.
We had a price increase in March as you recall and smaller one in May.
We got about an 8 million give or take benefit in the quarter and I would say you can analyze - annualize that and that would be about right.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Again others have said Dale it's been a pleasure working with you in Barry looking forward to being in touch.
Thanks.
[Operating Instruction] And our next question is from the line of John Baugh from Stifel.
Thank you and Dale my best wishes as well.
Very congratulations.
Quickly just on Sealy Europe could you sort of tell us where we are in terms of placements in doors in product acceptance are removing country by country.
Any feel for how that moved the international revenue.
Yes a lot of the growth in international from Sealy in particular came from Asia and Latin America.
We feel really good about that so constant currency we had a 14% revenue growth.
But again a fair amount of that came from other parts of the world.
In terms of Europe we had the probably have a few hundred doors now we have to again rebuilt the confidence rebuild the inventory levels and make sure that our trade customers are confident to get behind the product.
So as I said there's a lot of effort around retraining and re-excitement getting them going again so it's still relatively modest level of sales.
I think it will be behind where we had hoped to be by the year-end but again that's one aspect.
We have other good buys in the business that we feel good about it overall.
That's one.
That's probably going to end up being a little bit of a slow ramp but still long-term we have every confidence given the product is still as I said earlier compelling and different.
We still think it's a good opportunity for us long-term it's just going to take a little bit longer.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
And then follow-up on cash flow.
I think Dale or Barry somebody mentioned were quoted on target and we haven't generated much of any cash year-to-date from operations.
Could you walk us through kind of how the back half of the year looks and if you want some view to 2016 and maybe related to the commentary around building up inventories around holidays in course of Labor Day coming up? Thank you.
Sure John from the standpoint of the way we're thinking about the full year with obviously this in the back half we'd be looking for operating cash flow in that same kind of vicinity is what we're talking about at the beginning of the year right around 240 million give or take.
And we would anticipate free cash flow would be right about 180 million to 185 million with CapEx being plus or minus 5 million of that sort.
So as we're thinking about the second half we expected to be up considerably and obviously up dramatically from the first half and that will be driven by both improved margin performance and the seasonality with sales in the outlook for the positive second half.
In terms of the building inventory it tends to be a wash.
We build a little bit ahead but it tends to washout from a working capital standpoint.
Again I'll tell you that we did a little bit of it before Memorial Day.
We did more of it before Fourth of July.
The week after the Fourth of July we had virtually no backorders we had much less overtime.
So we keep learning and building this muscle and we think we can do even more of it prior to Labor Day and we should be in a good position relative to last year's inefficiency and we keep getting better.
But I'm pleased with what I've seen so far.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Question on the North America - I think you said Dale it was 3% unit growth in the quarter is that correct? Correct.
And....
That's for the combined North America business.
So with Sealy its launch from the earlier new products were those Sealy numbers up somewhat to mid single-digit growth in North America Sealy? If you look at the units the 3% was related to dollars sales for betting was up 10% in the quarter.
From a unit standpoint Tempur was double-digit.
But when you compare the units of Tempur to the units for Sealy there's a much higher volume of units within the Sealy business.
From a - from a sale standpoint Tempur was in the high teens growth.
Sealy was in mid- - low to mid single-digit topline growth and that's a factor of the transition of Posturepedic in getting the floor models discount out and all that kind of thing but our outstanding topline and unit growth within Tempur Sealy's topline growth and unit growth was a little bit slower because of the transition.
So on a blended basis just on mattresses what we're units for North America.
On a North America basis units were up 10% or I'm sorry 3%.
3%.
Okay.
Second question can you give us - That would be betting units.
Consistent with this is betting units.
It represents bedding units.
Correct.
Yes.
Okay.
And then just switching to currency can you give us the EBIT impact of currency in both segments of the quarter.
The dollars? For the second quarter? Second quarter.
Yes.
Yeah for the second quarter from a North America standpoint EBIT was affected about 2 million.
International was actually about a wash.
We had significant translation.
Drag internationally on currency but we had what we often call cross-currency benefit that at the EBIT level negated the translation effect.
And cross-currency we're quickly to give you an example our cost internationally is essentially in DKK so which is tied to the euro the euro goes down in value and it goes down more than the Japanese yen goes down you're selling Japanese yen you see a margin expansion in Japan.
So that's what we call cross-currency in the cross-currency offsets the translation at the EBIT level within international.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Congratulations on good results.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question is from the line of Jessica Mace from Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon and congrats on the nice results.
Thank you.
My first question is about the strong Tempur margin I think you said it was up 600 basis points in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could help us about what kind of opportunities remain for further improvement on the Tempur side and just how far along we are in realizing some of those benefits? Sure.
From a Tempur margin standpoint we absolutely believe that we can continue to see improvement in the Tempur margins as I said earlier price was a factor.
The fact that FLEX was a smaller rollout than the Cloud Contour last year so there's less discounts operations we saw very good improvement in the plants and in the supply chain.
But you know that was partly negatively offset by mix which was related to adjustables still growing faster than mattresses.
And that's going to we believe balance itself out in the second half because the second half last year was where we saw adjustables just really take off.
And also product mix around the new product.
FLEX is a little bit has a little bit lower margin than the core line as we said when we launched it is a new product new technology that tends to be introduced at a slightly lower margin rate and then as we learned to build these things we're able to improve the margins.
So will see margin improvement related to getting FLEX cost better.
Will continue to see significant margin improvements around improving the distribution we've got ongoing productivity initiatives within Tempur.
So we think there's a lot of opportunity to keep improving Tempur margins even from whether it now.
Great thank you.
And then my second question is on the forecast for operating margin to expand in the back half more than in the first.
I was wondering if you could give some color on the different buckets of sales marketing and G&amp;A that will drive that.
Sure.
As we think about looking at selling and marketing we would as Tim alluded to advertising as a percentage will come down a little bit be more consistent with the first quarter and with leverage there'll be some lower as a percentage of sales than the second quarter Jessica.
G&amp;A we would expect to be a little bit of incremental leverage as compared to the first half those would be the principal drivers.
Great.
Thank you.
All the best to Dale and congrats Barry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next question is from the line of Laura Champine from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Please go ahead.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
It's really on the back half guidance for Tempur North America.
What do you have built-in for price realization in your sales year-on-year in the back half? And how much of that do you think you give up on mix? Well we continue to expect about 8 million in a quarter.
In terms of mix it should be fairly consistent with what we saw in the second quarter.
Maybe a little bit better in that as Dale said we're now comping in the back half very good volume on adjustables.
So while adjustables was still growing year-over-year in the second quarter that will moderate a bit.
Flex growth is a little bit dilutive because of the start-up in the learning curve but I think those would be the key drivers.
Got it.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of Curtis Nagle from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good evening and thanks for taking the question.
Yeah just curious on going back to the Flex I guess any indication you have in terms of customer mix I guess existing versus new? And then any update in terms of improving the margin on the adjustable basis? I know it's very early in terms of universal platform but any updates would be appreciated.
Yeah.
On customer mix we have - if I'm answering your question we have some variation between customers as to who is doing extremely well with it and who is not as far up the curve yet.
And for those that are doing really well we're trying to understand what it is that's driving it and share those best practices.
I would also say that we rolled out on balance a little more than two lots per store per floor.
And given the success we would - we're going to push hard to get that third Flex unit which oftentimes is actually the higher end part of the line.
We rolled out more commonly the first two models in the line because the idea was that we were pulling people up on cheaper price points but given the success we're going to push hard to try to get that third product out there which we call elite.
So it's a combination of port pushing more elite in trying to share those best practices that we think will help further improve our success more broadly and more consistently across the trade.
Did I answer your question? You did.
You did.
And then just any commentary on the adjustable margin would be great? Yeah.
We have a lot of activity on cost productivity is a huge driver for us right now.
And I say there's both opportunity to continue to reduce the current products and as well as applied global leverage which we talked about previously in our buying and our R&amp;D and so forth.
And we're still working very aggressively to try to do both.
So in the shorter-term I would continue to see cost productivity in the current line and then we are at the same time moving toward with the global project that we've mentioned previously.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Thank you for letting me ask a follow-up.
I'm curious on the balance sheet Barry you talked about getting I think to three - getting close to the three times or three times leverage at the end of the year.
Can you maybe give us a target for where you think the long-term debt entity at the end of the year end? Is it about 1.4 billion or where is that? Yeah.
That's about right we're kind of expecting to be approaching that three times leverage ratio but at the end of the year so whether it's three one or right in that vicinity as Dale mentioned we're looking at approaching that long-term target at the end of the year or maybe in the first quarter.
So we're obviously very much looking forward to that as we think about how to maximize value for shareholders through capital allocation.
And that's the net debt to EBITDA Barry is that the way to think about that? That's right Budd.
And hazard guess for maybe the end of next year I know we wanted to get down closer to two at the time of the acquisition where do we think and kind of relaxed I believe a bit.
If you recall at the Investor Day you remember correctly and also at the Investor Day here earlier this year we updated that expectation for more like we felt like it would be three times after we looked at our optimal cash in capital allocation model we felt three times would be the appropriate place for the company.
And so as it relates to hazard getting guess for next year we're certainly not setting any guidance here today for 2016 but I'd say that also depends on what we're doing with our total use of cash at that point.
And so as Dale alluded to that would be something that we would be looking at as we approach the target here at the end of the year.
Okay.
And last for me Dale you said I think Tempur margins were up I think Tempur North America margins were up about 600 basis points year-over-year as I went back and looked at the numbers last year I think the number might have been 3.5% is that little watermark for the margin comparison I realize we're not necessarily apples-to-apples since the reframing of the segment data but help us understand what that comparison is to is that the operating margin or is that the gross margin? I was talking Tempur gross margins.
Talking gross margins.
Yeah.
So I think last year's gross margin was - what was it? 49 - high 40s if I remember looking back.
Tempur was about 40.5 in the second quarter last year on gross margin Tempur U.S.
So we're talking about 46.5 % growth.
Yeah.
I said over 600 basis points so a little better than that.
And how about the operating margin comparison there? You can't compare the operating margin because of the segment changes.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much and good luck again Dale.
Thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen this ends our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
Tim Yaggi for any final remarks.
We look forward to talking with you again in late October on our third quarter earnings call.
Thank you for joining us this evening and have a good night.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
And you may all disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Barry Hytinen Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please begin.
Thanks Vince.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters is Scott Thompson Chairman President and CEO.
After prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales earnings or adjusted net income and anticipated fourth quarter performance involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q under the headings Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
This morning's commentary will include non-GAAP financial measures.
The press release contains reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as well as the information regarding the methodology used for constant currency presentation.
We have posted the press release on the company's website at tempursealy.com and have also filed it with the SEC.
Also in connection with the conference call the company has prepared an investor presentation which has been filed with the SEC and is also available on the Investor Relations section of the company's website.
Our comments will supplement the detailed information provided in both the press release and the investor presentation.
And with that introduction it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Barry.
Since this is my first earning call since joining Tempur Sealy let me take just a minute to speak to why I joined the company.
First I was impressed with the knowledge and passion of each member of the board of directors of the company.
They truly are engaged and committed to the long-term success of the company.
Then in doing my due diligence on the bedding industry I was impressed with the following: the industry's consistent history of unit and pricing growth the importance of bedding products in people's lives the worth of the industry's brands marketing and services to retailers the healthy margins both for the manufacturers and the retailers lastly the great free cash flow attributes of the industry.
And looking specifically at Tempur Sealy I was influenced by Tempur Sealy's well established brands.
They truly have global reach.
The balance of the company's product offerings which cover the full range of bedding needs the strength and diversity for the company's worldwide distribution channels the company's history of nurturing win-win relationships with retail partners and key suppliers the company's long history of innovative products and world-class marketing.
And lastly the company's diverse worldwide platform which it certainly appears to be ripe for long-term growth.
Next let me take a minute or two and discuss what I found when I joined the company.
Thanks to the previous leadership of the company I found a solid long-term strategic plan and many aspects of this plan will continue to serve as a foundation for moving forward.
I found a very talented senior management team driving towards their goals.
I found a product pipeline in very good shape.
And lastly I found a passionate workforce that deeply cares about its customers products and long-term success of the company.
I could not be more pleased with my findings.
But in my career I've seen companies underperform even with great strategies.
What's critical now is how we execute.
With the strong foundation in place it is now the teams' responsibility to execute.
We have to find problems communicate problems and jointly fix problems all as quickly as possible.
Execution is where most value creation takes place.
Now to the third quarter results.
Reported numbers have several one-time items both gains and losses that create a little noise in the numbers.
Barry will walk through the items in detail in just a minute.
All of my comments are based on adjusting the GAAP results for these one-time items as I think that it's the best indication of the company's operating performance.
Overall the company had a solid quarter with net sales up 6.4% on a reported basis and 10.6% on a constant currency.
You should note that is on top of a 12.5% net sales increase in the third quarter of 2014.
The increase in net sales combined with 180 basis point increase in adjusted EBITDA margin to produce adjusted EBITDA of $142 million for the quarter.
North America slightly outperformed our expectations offsetting a slight disappointing international performance.
Barry will drill down on the details in just a minute.
Major highlights for the quarter that I'd like to call out include solid growth throughout the world on a constant currency basis.
In North America sales grew about 10% including an all-time record for the Tempur-Pedic brand driven by Flex and Breeze products.
Our Posturepedic launch has achieved record levels of distribution and improved our Sealy mix with considerable strength in our hybrid collection.
Internationally we grew 14% with solid growth across all regions of the globe with particular strength in our Sealy business in Latin America.
The next highlight is operating margin.
Adjusted operating margin expanded 230 basis points to 14.1%.
This was driven by an increase in Tempur brands' contribution to our overall sales mix improved operating efficiencies from sourcing lower commodity costs supply chain and plant improvements higher product pricing.
The team did a solid job in this area.
You should note that the margin expansion occurred despite increases in advertising and R&amp;D demonstrating we are firmly committed to investing in brand new product development and innovation.
The last financial highlight I'd like to call out is that we had great flow through of cash with operating cash flow up over 20% in the third quarter.
Manufacturing highlights our initiatives to build Sealy inventory ahead of major selling periods continues to payoff resulting in less overtime and better on-time deliveries during the key Labor Day shopping period.
Also we're experiencing lower product return as our investments in quality are paying off.
Turning to marketing and product development.
For Tempur we saw a good conversion from our media buy and effective creative.
Tempur-Pedic brand awareness is up and consumer brand perception continues to rise.
Additionally retail locator searches for Tempur-Pedic were up over 20% from last year indicating strong near-term purchasing interest.
There's also good news around the Sealy brands.
Our effort to grow awareness for Stearns &amp; Foster brand is working.
Both aided and unaided awareness is up.
Additionally Stearns &amp; Foster had a large increase in current owners likelihood to buy again.
We're seeing positive traction for Sealy as well with increases in owner satisfaction and Net Promoter Scores.
We believe these metrics indicate that our increased investment in marketing and product is paying off.
Lastly across the entire worldwide brand portfolio we made significant progress in the development of our product pipeline.
We're expecting strong product launches in 2016.
Although the quarter was solid we have some areas that fell short of our internal expectations.
As I mentioned internationally is not where we wanted to be.
A good part of this is due to the less robust international market and FX headwinds.
But that doesn't explain all the shortfall.
The balance of the underperformance we own and the international team is hard at work.
I'll be overseas next week to visit with them.
Additionally North American Sealy margins represent an opportunity for the company and the North American leadership team is focused on bringing them in line with our internal target.
We'll be launching the new Stearns &amp; Foster offering in early 2016 and expect that will help drive the margin through favorable product mix.
But that said we still have work to do in the basic blocking and tackling in Sealy manufacturing.
Next corporate overhead was not consistent with the kind of lean streamlined company which we believe is necessary to be successful in this industry.
General administrative expenses were 8.1% of net sales for the quarter versus 7.8% third quarter of 2014.
This is after solid revenue growth in the quarter.
We simply have to be structured to provide worldwide products at a competitive price.
We've recently taken actions in this area.
We've reduced our run rate of worldwide overhead by $15 million.
This was a painful process for the organization as the people affected are quality individuals but it was required to protect the company's competitive position in the industry.
We expect a one-time charge in the fourth quarter of $8 million to reflect these actions.
Lastly we've under-spent in Sealy brand advertising.
Going forward we will be more supportive of the Sealy brand.
Now Barry will walk you through the quarter's details.
Thanks Scott.
As Scott mentioned sales margins and earnings growth were strong this quarter.
Consolidated net sales for the third quarter were $880 million up 6.4% versus the third quarter last year and on a constant currency basis were up 10.6%.
Adjusted gross margin improved 250 basis points to 41.3% and adjusted operating margin improved 230 basis points to 14.1%.
As a percent of sales operating expenses were essentially unchanged with higher advertising and R&amp;D expense offset by lower other selling expenses.
The additional advertising was generally weighted toward Tempur and the R&amp;D was spread over all the brands.
The team is committed in continuing to invest in products and related marketing.
North America net sales increased 8.2% and were up 9.8% in constant currency.
Strong growth of 9.6% in the U.S.
was driven by high-teens growth for the Tempur-Pedic brand and low single-digit growth for Sealy brands.
We also had strong growth in Canada with sales increasing 12% on a constant currency basis.
However unfavorable foreign exchange translated sales into a reported decline of 7%.
Bedding product sales increased 7% on a unit increase of approximately 4% with positive price growth resulting from a higher mix of Tempur-Pedic sales during the period and the previously disclosed March 2015 and May 2015 Tempur-Pedic pricing actions.
Our new TEMPUR-Flex and Sealy Posturepedic together with Tempur Breeze products were significant drivers of growth.
Other products were up driven by solid growth in pillow sales.
North America adjusted operating margin improved 260 basis points to 16.4% as a result of a 310 basis point increase in adjusted operating margin to 39.1%.
The improvement was driven principally by Tempur-Pedic U.S.
gross margins which were strong in the quarter and benefited from improved efficiency in our operations including sourcing and lower commodity costs supply chain and plant improvement as well as pricing.
However as Scott mentioned our Sealy margin continues to be an opportunity.
Sealy U.S.
gross margin was down slightly year-on-year.
This is not consistent with our expectations.
We remain committed to Sealy margin improvement and during 2016 and beyond we expect to improve margins through operational and procurement productivity and favorable product mix as Scott alluded to.
Turning to international net sales declined 2.3% yet on a constant currency basis were up 14.1% with growth across all regions.
Bedding product sales were flat on actual rate though on a constant currency basis were up 18%.
Units increased 26% reflecting very significant growth from our Sealy brand businesses in Latin America.
Our international average selling price is down but this is entirely due to this market mix.
Other channel sales were up 30% on a constant currency basis driven by strong Tempur direct sales.
International adjusted gross margin was essentially flat to prior year at 52.7% and adjusted operating margin was down slightly to 18.5%.
GAAP interest expense was $33.2 million which includes a $12 million non-cash charge for the accelerated amortization of the associated deferred financing costs related to our recent debt offering.
Therefore our adjusted interest expense was $21.2 million.
GAAP other expense was $11.8 million.
The significant adjustments include $17 million of expense related to the German regulatory settlement and $9.5 million of income related to a partial legal settlement.
Our adjusted other expense was $3 million.
This compares to other income of approximately $1 million last year.
The year-over-year variance was due to currency impacts on foreign denominated loans.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 26% to $1.11 and on a constant currency basis increased 36% as foreign exchange rate negatively impacted adjusted EPS by $0.09.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 19% to $142.3 million in the third quarter and on a constant currency basis increased 26% as foreign exchange negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA by $8.5 million.
Since we had a number of adjustments to the reported GAAP numbers this quarter let me take a minute and bridge GAAP net income to adjusted net income.
As outlined in the press release there were approximately $30 million of after-tax adjustments.
They include first as previously disclosed in our 2014 10-K our German subsidiary was subject to a regulatory investigation of the German mattress industry.
Last week we reported that we had reached a settlement that fully resolved this matter.
The total charge was $17.6 million.
We want investors to know that we take this matter seriously.
We've taken appropriate steps to address it and don't anticipate any lingering effects.
Second non-cash interest expense of $8.3 million related to the recent debt offering.
Third integration cost of $4.2 million related to the transitioning of manufacturing facilities and other cost related to the continued alignment of the North American business segment related to the Sealy acquisition.
We are nearing completion of our integration efforts and currently expect about $3 million in the fourth quarter and only $1 million or $2 million in the first half of 2016.
Fourth executive management transition and retention compensation of $3.9 million.
Fifth the initial phase of streamlining costs of $1.7 million related to Scott's commentary on corporate head count reductions as well as certain international store closures.
And lastly netted against those was other income of approximately $6.6 million related to a partial settlement of a legal dispute with certain suppliers.
I expect that going forward; the adjustments will generally decrease in both number and amount.
Now moving on to the key balance sheet and cash flow items.
At the end of the third quarter our total debt was $1.5 billion and our total cash was $72 million an improvement from year-end 2014 levels of $1.6 billion in total debt and $63 million in cash.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $17 million.
Now for the full year we are expecting $70 million.
As detailed in the press release our leverage ratio as calculated based on our senior credit facility which limits the level of adjustments to EBITDA further improved and as of the end of the third quarter was 3.5 times which compares to 3.8 times at the end of the second quarter and 4.1 times in the year ago period.
We continue to expect to approach three times leverage by early 2016 using our bank covenant EBITDA.
In addition to the credit facility calculation if you look at our leverage ratio based on the financial statements without the bank covenant limitations our ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA was 3.3 times as of the end of the third quarter and this ratio has also improved significantly over the past year.
During the third quarter we completed a $450 million senior notes offering.
We used the proceeds to reduce term loan outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities.
We also made a $50 million voluntary prepayment.
Together these actions substantially improved our capital structure by extending our debt maturities freeing up senior debt capacity and moving more of our debt to a fixed rate.
Operating cash flow in the third quarter was $132 million up from $109 million.
We expect strong cash flow in the fourth quarter.
In addition Scott's asked me to evaluate future cash flows and future leverage targets and we're having discussions with our banking relationships as we evaluate capital allocation.
We expect to update you on this work on the next earnings call.
Now turning to our financial guidance for 2015.
We currently expect net sales to be in a range of $3 150 million to $3 175 billion.
You should remember during the 2014 year-end earnings call of about $15 million to $20 million of forward buying that occurred in the fourth quarter of last year.
We don't expect that type of year-end activity this year as we have changed our trade programs.
This factor is reflected in our guidance.
We currently expect adjusted earnings of $3.10 to $3.20 per diluted share.
At the midpoint of guidance this reflects a 19% growth rate.
Our new guidance reflects the solid third quarter as well as an increased interest expense related to the recently completed debt offering and a slight increase to share count.
These two technical adjustments combined to be a $0.06 headwind for the full year of which $0.05 are expected in the fourth quarter.
So by holding the top end of EPS range unchanged our new guidance reflects improved operating performance and outlook.
Our guidance is based on adjusted figures and dependent on the factors that I discussed at the beginning of the call.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Barry.
Great job.
I'd like to add a little bit to Barry's guidance comments.
Overall our markets feel okay stable with North America our largest market in the best shape.
We continue to watch things like consumer confidence housing turnover traffic and conversion rates at our retail partners but as we sit here today things feel pretty good.
Key items you should be looking for in the fourth quarter continued sales growth of our Tempur Flex and Sealy Posturepedic products.
Further margin expansion driven by expected improvement in North America.
Strong cash flow generation resulting in some deleveraging and lastly increased focus on product innovation as we further strengthen our product pipeline.
I've been on the job for about 50 days.
And I'm really excited about all the opportunities that lie ahead of us.
One of my key commitments is to create transparency not only within the organization but also with our shareholders.
And I'm committed to maintaining an open dialogue with all of you.
Lastly before we open the call for questions as most likely most of you saw this morning we added Rick Neu to the company's board of directors.
Rick is a seasoned public company board member who's also successfully held various senior executive officer positions.
He will further enhance the board's financial and governance expertise and the entire board is very pleased that he's agreed to join us.
Operator will you please open the call for questions? Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open sir.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes hi good morning Scott Barry and Mark and Scott welcome to the company.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> To ask my one question here I wanted to follow-up on a comment that you made Scott where you said that execution is where most of the value creation often occurs.
You did reference how Sealy and the international segment didn't live up to expectations this quarter.
But with 50 days under your belt could you maybe talk about the main areas within the company that you see the biggest opportunity to improve execution? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You probably hit on a couple of them pretty quickly.
As I mentioned before the Sealy margins are not meeting our internal targets.
The team's on it.
It's a significant opportunity but it's also a journey that will take more than a month probably take more than a quarter or two but there is significant opportunity in the Sealy manufacturing.
We're just not where we need to be from that standpoint.
We've done some great work on the supplier side but we need to do some more work on the labor side primarily.
Turning to international look international had a solid quarter when you look at it on a constant currency basis but were we expecting more? Yes we were expecting more.
The Sealy brands had growth in the quarter but the Sealy launch hasn't gone as well as we would have liked in Europe.
Tempur primarily in Europe underperformed our expectation.
And I'd tell you that when you looked at the overhead of both it would be internationally or domestically but if calling out internationally the overhead in international is a little heavy and the team is taking care of that issue.
But as far as opportunity long-term international looks like a very good opportunity long-term.
It won't be an easy road.
That's a tough execution when you're working internationally and there'll be bumps in the road going forward but long-term internationally is something I'm certainly very excited about.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you so much Scott.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thank you.
Congrats on a good quarter.
My question really revolves around Sealy.
It seems like you guys are facing some pretty easy comparisons on Sealy margins this quarter.
I was expecting to see a little bit better improvement there as you start tackling some of the manufacturing issues.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That was odd.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you talk to what fell short of expectations on your end and what the action plan is in the near-term to improve it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think I've called that out and first of all you're spot on.
The Sealy margins did not perform the way we expected them to.
Some of that's merchandizing mix and that we certainly were affected from a merchandizing mix standpoint and that's fully explainable.
And that will turn when we launched the new Stearns &amp; Foster product but that doesn't explain it all.
We've still got work to do in the area.
We've got a team on it.
They're very engaged.
In fact I think they were here at seven o'clock this morning meeting.
So the action plans in place and we expect that we're going to be able to report progress in that area.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
This is Bobby actually filling in for Budd.
Thank you for taking my questions and congrats on another solid quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Bobby.
Thanks Bobby.
Inc.</span></strong> My question's really around the Sealy rollout there in Europe.
Just looking for maybe a little bit more detail if has the strategy changed a little bit has the timing of the size changed? If so what's kind of changed and if not you've mentioned it earlier but how is it progressing and kind of what's the surprises and what's going better or worse than you originally communicated with us a year or so ago? Good question Bobby.
From a standpoint of in the third quarter our Sealy International Europe Japan that piece is about consistent from a sales and EBIT drag basis as we were seeing in the first and the second quarter.
So high single digit million and a very small drag on EBIT.
From standpoint of as we look at what's going on as you know we had some supplier issues earlier in the year those are fully behind us.
But going back in and essentially refocusing sales advocacy at the store level that's an effort and as Scott mentioned we see the international opportunity as being a very large one over time but it's going to take some time.
And so I know the team is very focused going forward into 2016 to increase both the distribution of our new Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster products there and we've got a positive outlook but it's going to take some time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Baugh of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I appreciate you taking my question.
So I'm just curious Scott culturally you've come in from the outside and only 50 days I understand it but I'm just curious as to your observations of the Tempur versus the Sealy whether you still see that within the organization; whether that's a hindrance maybe near-term to getting some of the Sealy margin improvements you're talking about.
And whether you have the right people in place in the Sealy operations to execute the plan of improvement? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
A great question.
First of all you asked about the cultural – kind of a cultural question about Tempur and Sealy.
From my perspective there is only Tempur Sealy.
And I don't feel any cultural issues related to what I'll call a Sealy people or a Tempur people.
This is not dissimilar from when I joined Dollar Thrifty and in case if you're not familiar with the rental car industry there was a Dollar and there was a Thrifty.
And they put them together and called them Dollar Thrifty.
But when I got there the way I operate and the way I think about it there really is only Tempur Sealy and I've got to tell you that I think the leadership team here thinks the same way.
We've got some great people that came over in the Sealy acquisition that are key members of this organization and we have clearly some key executives from Tempur and I think everybody is working together.
All the goals are aligned.
And so I don't think we have any cultural barriers to our future success.
So I think that would be the first part of your question.
Second part of your question was – do I have the right horses or the right team in place to fix the Sealy margin issue and drive Sealy's performance.
And the answer to that is yes.
I think we've got the right team.
They probably underestimated the challenge from a guy dropping in for 50 days.
They probably underestimated the challenge when they started the journey.
But are they doing the right things? Without question they're doing the right things.
Are they the right people? They're the people.
Are they working hard? They're working hard.
And I've got a lot of confidence in the team that we've got on the job.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Peter Keith of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Scott just following up on maybe some of the topics in the earlier questions.
With regard to the Project 650 goal that would be a bit above what the prior management team had outlined at the beginning of the year looking at whether it'd be 50 basis points of annual EBIT improvement or I think the internal goal was 100 basis points.
It seems like that that goal would be above the 100 basis point target.
With you coming in where do you think you see the specific areas of opportunity relative to those origin goals? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Great question.
First of all I'm going to call it the aspirational plan because I don't really think if it as the 650 plan.
I think our job is to make as much money as we possibly can.
And so whether it's 650 or 750 or 350 I don't know what the numbers are so I don't think really think of it necessarily the 650 plan.
It's an aspirational plan designed to reward management for aspirational performance but look it's out there.
It's a heavy lift.
But it's certainly a great plan that's got all the management team focused and it's been very good for pulling together the team in a common goal.
I did not spend a lot of time looking at what previous management had put together and presented to the Street all their internal documents.
I started kind of with a clean sheet of paper and I've asked everybody to start with a clean sheet of paper and do zero budget going forward.
And the kind of meeting we're having isn't what we tell people before the kind of meetings we're having what's possible.
Think out of the box.
What could we do? What could we do different? How could we do things better? And so I can't really reconcile you to whatever has been presented previous but quite frankly I didn't spend any time looking at it.
But I think there are a lot of opportunities in this business.
We can do some things in areas better than we've done it before and I think we've got some pretty strong competitive advantages in the marketplace that we can take advantage of.
So I hope that helps address your question.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Your line is open sir.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
You brought up when you were discussing Sealy and some of the potential changes advertising more advertising dollars towards Sealy and so it's been a dynamic year where there's been national ads in the Tempur brand and more of the co-op spend at the Sealy brand Sealy Stearns &amp; Foster brand.
So I guess my question if you're committing more advertising dollars which direction would that go in the future in your view? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think you're asking which bucket it would come out of and I think the answer is we want more effective advertising from the co-op dollars we spend and then we need to spend some more money from a direct advertising standpoint.
So I'd call it it's going to come from both bucket.
Inc.</span></strong> And would that change – I assume that wouldn't change your commitment to the Tempur brand in its ad spend is that correct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No no without question.
You spend advertising dollars investing in brand and product that you think you're going to have a real high return on.
And so we don't have a cap on advertising and then do trade-offs between the two brands.
We'll spend the amount of money that we think we need to support the product support our retailers and drive our operations.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jason Smith of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Your line is open.
How are you doing guys? Thank you for taking my question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Just kind of wanted to piggyback on some of the things we've discussed here as far as the margin expansion opportunity.
I know you've kind of addressed the long-term opportunity but could you kind of discuss or give us a little more color around what you see as sort of the low hanging fruit I mean where can we see changes quickly here? Well.
I mean I would say – good question.
I would say that we continue to see very strong gross margin out of the Tempur U.S.
business and that has been driven off of operational improvements sourcing supply chain plan improvements and pricing.
We see those continuing and further opportunity.
From a Sealy gross margin perspective Scott's addressed that we're really getting after that and driving performance.
Internationally we've addressed that but I would say that there is continued opportunity as we leverage that portion of the business and then to the earlier point of streamlining the overhead of the business is going to drive near-term performance.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd only add one thing to the list that Barry just outlined.
The other thing that we're doing and I think this happens in our all businesses.
Look we're closely looking at all of our sales and making sure that we're doing profitable sales.
And we're doing deep dives into customer profitability and to the extent if we have business that's not profitable for us we'll have to work with people in that area and make sure that we've got a good healthy long-term relationship for them and for us.
And so there may be some opportunity in that area.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Just going back to the Sealy question on the – from a cost perspective.
It was highlighted in the last Investor Day some of the cost initiatives around distribution sales force consolidation things like that between the Tempur and Sealy.
In your view are those not complete or are there things in addition to that that you think you could be doing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The distribution is going well.
Wouldn't you say Barry is that fair? Absolutely.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd say distribution is going well but I'd also say like always you want more improvement every quarter.
But I'd say distribution is going well.
In the consolidation of the sales force in our recent actions there was quite a bit of activity in that area.
And I would say now we've pretty much got the sales force exactly where it needs to be and we are through in the U.S.
on activities when it comes to personnel.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Curtis Nagle of Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much for taking the call.
So Scott I'm just curious I guess I know it's early but how are you thinking about capital return over the coming years particularly as leverage is set to go below three times? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great great question.
I called it out when I originally looked at the business.
One of the things I really liked about this business was free cash flow attributes are very strong.
And in some of my previous lives I've been in organizations where you had lots of GAAP earnings but quite frankly you didn't produce any cash because the CapEx requirements were so big to keep the engine running that there never really was some free cash so when I looked at this business I was thrilled with the cash flow attributes.
I then looked at the leverage to see kind of where the company was from a leverage standpoint before getting involved in it and it didn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that the company was deleveraging very quickly and unless you do something else with the cash that it is going to deleverage probably below any reasonable rate.
So as Barry called out in his prepared remarks I've asked him to go work with the senior bank group and to see what we can do in that area relating to covenants and they're working on that.
But let me just talk in general about the way I think about capital structure.
I think what we need to do and what we are doing is the first thing you want to look at is what the enterprise risk you have in the organization and stress test that and we're doing that.
Look long-term our responsibility is to protect the company in different business cycles.
So before we do anything in capital we need to stress test the business model and make sure we fully understand how this company will perform all throughout the cycles and that's being done currently.
The next thing I think we have to do and we're doing is you look at the nature of the debt that you have clearly if you have debt and it's a one year duration from senior lenders that's one kind of leverage and if you have long-term debt from the market and multiple lenders that's more stable debt and you like that better and it's a little less risky.
You can clearly see in the last 50 days we've put some long-term debt on the books and that feels good.
From looking at the enterprise risk and kind of the nature of your debt and duration I think from that process you develop what I'll call a risk tolerance.
And then after you have your risk tolerance I think you look to your cost of capital and we've asked some people from the outside to do some work for us on cost of capital and you combine that with your risk tolerance and you have a discussion at the board level as to what do you think and we're going to do that and we're scheduled to do that.
After you get that it's really pretty easy.
From that discussion a capital structure should pop out a leverage target should pop out and going forward then it's just a resource allocation question.
Do you want to invest the money in the business to get to that proper capital structure or do you want to give it back to the shareholders? And the way I look at that that's just a return on invested capital kind of analysis and how can the business deploy the capital and can it deploy it in a reasonable return.
And if you can't deploy it in a reasonable return with the risk associated really need to give it back to the shareholders.
Having said all of that having not also done all the detailed work that's in process I suspect that I will be comfortable with leverage greater than three terms is my expectation but I've not done the work and I've got to talk to my fellow board members who are all financially astute and having a strong opinion.
But I think we owe the market a further discussion of that by the next earnings conference call because you guys are smart and if you run your pro formas you're going to figure out real fast we're going to deleverage pretty quickly.
And so we better have that discussion with you probably on the next earnings call.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Seth Basham of Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Just a couple housekeeping questions.
For the quarter what was your advertising dollar spend? That was about $103 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And you expect the run rate to persist in the fourth quarter? Yeah.
It'd be give or take Seth yeah on a percent of sales.
Inc.</span></strong> Exactly.
And then as it relates to FX what is your FX outlook for the fourth quarter? Well for the full year our guidance has been that we'd have about a $0.30 rounded off $0.30 EPS hit and we're taking I think about $0.22 through the first three quarters and so be $0.05 to $0.08 something in that vicinity.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open sir.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes hi.
Just circling back on a few housekeeping items myself.
I was hoping that you could talk a little bit more about the cadence of business in North America in the quarter and maybe anything in particular about Texas that you're able to say in light of some of the data points that we've gotten from other retailers.
And then perhaps Barry if you could give us an update on input costs how much did they benefit you? And directionally should that be getting to be a bigger benefit as we move forward or is that leveling off? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me take some of that and then I'll give the hard stuff to Barry.
Just in general we'll report the fourth quarter when we report the fourth quarter.
I can tell you whatever trends we're experiencing have been fully dialed into the guidance but I just generally don't comment too much about trends within the quarter.
So just assume that it's been dialed into the guidance.
On Texas so I think I do owe you some comments because clearly there has been some weather down there.
And there has been a little bit of chatter in the marketplace about Texas and how oil prices might impact that area.
I can tell you that when we look at the what I call oil concentrated states Texas Oklahoma and Louisiana and we compare our performance in those states with the rest of the nation those markets in the third quarter actually outperformed the rest of the nation.
So through the third quarter I would say not only we're not seeing no impact from falling oil prices I'd like to say they actually outperformed.
Now I'm from Texas so I've been through at least three major downturns in the oil business.
And look you don't feel it immediately it takes a while.
So although the third quarter that area came in strong I would expect going forward that we would begin to feel some weakness in those marketplaces over the next few quarters.
But I've also checked with several of my friends in the car business because the car business is pretty good to tell you what's really going on in the market and their expectation is similar to mine is that it will probably trail off slightly but nobody is expecting it to be too bad in the oil markets from what I'm hearing.
And Brad I think what that leaves us is the commodity cost and input cost.
Just as a reminder in the first quarter we saw a level of unfavorable commodity impact in the results.
In the second quarter it was a slight benefit.
I said on the last call that we expected to see several million of benefit from commodities in the back half based on what we could see.
We did realize that that was built into the guidance and we did realize it.
And at this point looking forward in light of where things are we'd expect a couple of million of incremental benefit in the fourth quarter that's modeled into the guidance and that's on a variety of commodities whether it'd be steel input foam chemicals et cetera.
So all-in it's been several million of benefit here in the back half as expected.
Thank you.
At this time there's no other questions in queue.
I'd like to turn it back to Mr.
Thompson for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you operator.
To the 7 000 employees worldwide thank you for what you do every day and make this company successful.
To our retail partners thank you for your outstanding representation of our brands.
To our shareholders and lenders thank you for your confidence in Tempur Sealy its leadership team and the board of directors.
Operator this ends our call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Tempur Sealy Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer; instructions will follow at that time.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Barry Hyte (sic) [Hytinen].
Please go ahead.
Thanks Catherine.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in today's call.
Joining me in our Lexington headquarters is Scott Thompson Chairman President and CEO.
After prepared remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Forward-looking statements that we make during this call are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements including the company's expectations regarding sales earnings adjusted EBITDA or net income and anticipated 2016 performance involve uncertainties.
Actual results may differ due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the company's business.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those identified include economic regulatory competitive operating and other factors discussed in the press release issued today.
These factors are also discussed in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to annual reports on Form 10-K and the company's quarterly reports on 10-Q under the headings Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements and/or Risk Factors as well as the company's press releases.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
This morning's commentary will include non-GAAP financial measures.
The press release contains reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as well as information regarding the methodology used for constant currency presentations.
We have posted the press release on the company's website at tempursealy.com and have also filed it with the SEC.
Our comments will supplement the detailed information provided in the press release.
And now with that introduction it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Barry.
Clearly we have a lot to talk about this morning.
But the main news is the company's quarter was very solid from an operating standpoint.
We made very good progress towards our goals January has started out well and the new product launches are on track.
Now for my report.
Tempur Sealy leadership team is laser-focused on building the business for the long term.
I'm frequently asked about how we're going to achieve this.
The team has the entire organization focused on a handful of key initiatives to drive performance and build the business.
These include the following: First developing innovative bedding products and investing significant marketing dollars to communicate the health benefits of these products so that our consumers trade up to the best sleep products they can afford.
The combination of great products and significant marketing will drive traffic to our retail partners and will help both us and our retail partners achieve higher average sales price.
Second growing North American margin.
By improving our Sealy assembly operations improving supply chain and sourcing and taking opportunistic pricing actions.
Third growing market share outside of North America in particular in Europe with both the Sealy and the Tempur brands.
Lastly consistently analyzing our distribution strategy to make sure our products are properly represented in all channels and that we've taken advantage of all market opportunities.
In this area I do have some comments regarding our thoughts on the bed-in-the-box concept that I'll share in just a minute.
Turning to some recent product news we had some significant new product launches both domestically and abroad that we believe were received very well.
Additionally we have announced certain price increases that have been very helpful to us and our retail partners.
First a couple weeks ago at the Vegas Bedding Show we launched our new Stearns &amp; Foster product line which includes three collections Estate Lux Estate and a brand new Reserve collection.
The trade received these products very well.
Stearns &amp; Foster's showroom was buzzing with traffic.
We expect solid distribution of the lineup.
Retailers were very excited to learn that we'd be stepping up our Stearns &amp; Foster marketing support including investing in television advertising the first time in brand history.
With this level of innovation included in the line we also announced that we intend to keep the line in the market for three years versus the historical product life of two years.
Major retailers have been supportive of this change as it saves them from having to replace floor models as frequently and we hope others will follow.
Also for many years Tempur-Pedic has been the only brand that consistently achieved higher average sales price which clearly benefits both us and our retail partners.
Now the team is excited to deliver a similar outcome with the powerful Stearns &amp; Foster brand.
Because of all the innovation and features in the new Stearns &amp; Foster line we expect to drive higher average sales price with the highest end (5:37) product price at $5 000 for the Reserve Queen which is up from the former line's top product price of $3 300.
Although volume is not expected to be significant at the high end this product has the potential to help drive ASP for our retail partners and serve as a halo product for the brand.
On the Tempur-Pedic side of the business we introduced the new TEMPUR-Breeze line which delivers benefit of Tempur material adaptive support pressure point release and reduced motion transfer while also leveraging proprietary technology that enables consumers to sleep cooler and wake up more refreshed.
You'll recall our initial launch of Breeze in 2012 was a hit with consumers and retailers alike driving average ASP and growing volume for Tempur.
We believe the latest Breeze is a significant improvement on a product that is already very popular.
I feel great about this product.
It also happens to be the bed that I sleep on.
On the International front which represents our fastest-growing segment you'll be pleased to know that last month at the bedding show in Cologne Germany we launched our International Tempur Hybrid which is the international version of the Flex Collection we launched very successfully in the U.S.
in 2015.
In addition we also launched the Tempur and Sealy box spring offering which are the new market segments for us in Europe.
This show was very well attended and we feel very good about our international launches.
Onto the pricing front.
You'll recall that last year that we increased retail price for select Tempur-Pedic products and these price increases were comfortably absorbed by the market.
The price increase helped grow both our earnings and earnings of our retail partners in 2015.
Building on this experience we recently raised the price on a select range of Tempur-Pedic products.
In addition we recently announced a round of price increases in our Sealy brand products primarily focused on Posturepedic Hybrid as well as certain king-size offerings across the portfolio.
As we've said before we believe that strong product brands and products will lead to pricing opportunities.
Turning to our growing direct business we strongly believe that it is important to grow our direct sales to consumers as consumers are increasingly researching products online and are willing to purchase even large-ticket items directly from manufacturers.
We believe we have a natural advantage in going direct.
Many of you will recall that Tempur-Pedic actually started selling direct to consumers.
As such we have a great heritage and knowledge in the area.
We believe that Tempur-Pedic can grow the direct sale model in a way that is highly complementary to the company's third-party retail business.
In the coming months you should expect to see a new more sales-focused company website approximately 20 new company-owned stores internationally and a couple of stores in North America.
I should note that our direct-to-customer business in 2015 grew at almost twice the rate of our third-party retail business.
In addition while we're not yet clear on how big the segment's online mattress sales will ultimately be it is clear that channel at the low-end market is growing.
In our view the growth of this segment is primarily due to the appeal of a very simple and time-saving sales process as opposed to these products being of higher-quality or having features at the same price point as products sold in the traditional bedding channel.
As a worldwide branded bedding manufacturer we want to be wherever the consumer wants to shop.
So we're very pleased to announce that during the first quarter of 2016 we will be introducing a Sealy-branded bed-in-a-box sold directly online.
We'll also start to work with our third-party retailers to give them an opportunity to participate and realize incremental revenue.
We've compared our product with the competition and we feel great about our competitive position.
For now that's all we're willing to say about this competitively sensitive upcoming new launch.
Barry and I will not be taking questions on this topic.
Now turning to the fourth quarter results.
The reported numbers have several one-time items that create a little noise in the numbers.
Barry will walk us through the items in detail in just a minute.
All of my comments are based on adjusted GAAP results for these one-time items because I think it's the best indication of the company's operating performance.
Overall the company had a solid quarter with net sales up 2.9% on a reported basis and 6.7% in constant currency.
You will note this is on top of a 10% net sales increase in the fourth quarter of 2014.
As I'm sure you remember last year's fourth quarter we reported that we had some extensive buy-forwards in North America.
The increase in net sales combined with a 170-basis-point increase in adjusted EBITDA margin to produce adjusted EBITDA of $133 million for the quarter representing a $70 million increase or 14% increase versus prior year.
This is after absorbing FX headwinds.
Major highlights for the quarter that I'd like to point out include: a solid growth throughout the world in constant currency.
In North America sales grew 5% driven by TEMPUR-Flex and TEMPUR-Breeze products and our Posturepedic launch has achieved record distribution and considerable strength in Hybrid collections.
Internationally we grew 12% with solid growth in Asia-Pacific Latin America including particular strength in our Sealy business.
The next highlight is operating margin.
Adjusted operating margin expanded 160 basis points to 14.5%.
This was driven by improved operating efficiencies from global sourcing lower commodity costs supply chain and plant improvements and higher-priced products.
In addition we leveraged our operating infrastructure while remaining committed to invest in brand new products and innovation as evidenced by R&amp;D and advertising spend both being up for the quarter.
We had great flow-through in cash as operating cash came in at $101 million in the fourth quarter an increase of $57 million over the prior year.
While we are far from where we want to be I'm pleased to report we saw improving trends in our Sealy assembly margins.
As we discussed on the third quarter call clearly this has been a big focus item for our North America team.
In the fourth quarter we saw stable margins year-over-year which has marked a significant trend change from the year-on-year declines we have been facing in recent quarters.
This was more than just the impact of commodities.
We experienced improvements in manufacturing productivity from a trend standpoint.
We still have work to do but it's refreshing to begin to see the results of our work in the reported numbers.
Turning to capital allocation as we foreshadowed on the last earnings call we've gone through a thorough evaluation of the company's capital allocation strategy.
After looking at the business model in depth and the prospects across multiple economic scenarios we've concluded that the appropriate leverage target should be about 3.5 times EBITDA.
The business has reasonably diverse geographic footprint generates a lot of cash has low maintenance CapEx behaves reasonably well in recessionary stress testing due to the high variable cost structure and has no significant off-balance sheet debt.
So what should you expect? The target leverage is just that a target.
There will be times when we're above as we take advantage of opportunities and there will be times we might be below as we're viewing investment options.
Having said that it is clear that based on where we are today and our expected near-term cash flow that we have some excess capital in the system.
After reviewing several options we currently think the best way to deploy some of the excess capital is to give it back to shareholders in the form of share repurchase activity.
We are pleased to announce that the Board of Directors unanimously have authorized $200 million in share repurchase.
We expect this to be the first authorization in what will be a series of authorizations.
We'll be working on a debt agreement to align them with our new average target and long-term strategy to return capital to shareholders.
We've also been working on guidance policy.
The company the team really the team is focused on the near-term aspirational plan which is based on 2017 EBITDA.
For 2016 we're working hard to get on a glide path for success in 2017.
Also as we've talked about we're leaning towards margin versus revenue.
So where we are is we're going to give annual EBITDA guidance in a range and some commentary on revenue and other items.
As I mentioned 2016 has started off in a solid fashion.
Our guidance for 2016 EBITDA is $500 million to $550 million growth of 10% to 20%.
Barry will give you some more color on this in a minute.
Before I hand over the call I would like to briefly comment on two other matters the Danish tax matter and the recently announced streamlining of the Board of Directors.
First the Danish tax matter.
While Barry will discuss it in detail as the new guy on the team I want to share my perspective.
This is an international transfer price dispute.
It is about who gets the taxes Denmark or the United States in double-taxation under Subpart F of the Tax Code.
The company did everything it was supposed to do including relying on numerous independent firms to determine what was the appropriate royalty rate.
After a lot of review we have determined we should increase our reserves.
This is an issue that's been worked on by the company for over 10 years.
I want to put it behind us eliminate the uncertainty and move forward.
Turning to refreshment and streamlining of the Board of Directors as I'm sure you saw from our press release on Tuesday at my request the Board of Directors worked on a plan to refresh and streamline.
The results are outlined in earlier release.
I want to take just a minute and truly thank the five Board Members who have chosen not to stand for reelection for their many years of service and demonstrated leadership.
During their tenure as directors the company grew significantly established the Tempur brand worldwide successfully acquired the Sealy brand and established the company as the largest bedding manufacturer in the world.
They leave a legacy of accomplishments.
The 40% reduction in Board size is consistent with the overall organization's focus to drive to become more productive.
Now Barry will walk you through the quarter and the year results.
Thanks Scott.
As Scott mentioned consolidated net sales for the fourth quarter were $767.3 million up 2.9% versus the fourth quarter last year and on a constant currency basis were up 6.7%.
Adjusted gross margin improved 80 basis points to 41.1% and adjusted operating margin improved 160 basis points to 14.5%.
Recognizing we have several adjustments to our results which I will address later I wanted to start by going through our fourth quarter P&amp;L on an adjusted basis.
Selling and marketing expenses were approximately $144 million a decrease of 4% year-on-year with no reduction in advertising spend.
We are committed to investing in products and marketing while maintaining our focus on leveraging our infrastructure.
G&amp;A expenses were approximately $68 million an increase of 11%.
Now this includes approximately $4 million in discrete legal and professional fees $2 million in bad debt expense for a specific customer and an incremental $1 million of stock-based compensation expense associated with our long-term performance-based incentive programs.
Total operating expenses were approximately $212 million an increase of 1%.
Other income was approximately $1 million as compared to approximately $2 million of other expense in 2014.
The adjusted income tax rate was approximately 30%.
Income attributable to non-controlling interest net of tax was approximately $200 000 a decrease of 67%.
There were no adjustments to equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates royalty income or interest expense.
Adjusted net income was $62.7 million an increase of 18%.
Adjusted EPS was $0.99 an increase of 15%.
On a constant currency basis adjusted EPS increased 25.6% as foreign exchange rates negatively impacted adjusted EPS by $0.09.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 14.4% to $133 million in the fourth quarter and on a constant currency basis increased to 21% as foreign exchange negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA by $8 million.
Now since we had a number of adjustments to the reported GAAP numbers this quarter let me take a minute to walk through them.
This is outlined on Page 10 of the press release.
There were approximately $74 million of after-tax adjustments.
They included: first $61 million for the Danish tax matter which I'm going to address in a moment.
Second as we discussed on our last call we completed actions this quarter around corporate head count reductions as well as certain international store closures which resulted in a $7.7 million charge.
We should get a full payback in less than a year.
Third integration costs of $3 million related to the transitioning of manufacturing facilities and other costs related to the continued alignment of the North American business segment related to the Sealy acquisition.
We are nearing completion of our integration efforts and currently expect about $3 million in 2016.
Fourth executive management transition and retention compensation of $2.4 million.
And lastly we incurred $900 000 in non-cash expense associated with the de-risking strategy for our defined benefit pension plan.
I do expect that going forward the adjustments will decrease in both number and amount.
Now I would like to take a moment to address the Danish tax issue.
First let me provide some background information and context.
As we have been disclosing since 2008 we have pending income tax assessments from the Danish tax authority related to a dispute over the royalty rate that the Tempur United States Company pays our Danish subsidiary in connection with the use of intellectual property to produce our Tempur material.
As Scott said it's an international transfer pricing dispute on whether more profit should be in Denmark or the U.S.
It is not the result of Tempur avoiding the payment of its fair share of taxes.
Fundamentally it is about who gets the taxes Denmark or the U.S.
Absent an agreement between Denmark and the U.S.
in which both countries agree on the transfer price for the use of the intellectual property the company will incur a level of double taxation.
In addition the flow of the royalties from the U.S.
to Denmark creates an additional taxable income in the U.S.
under Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code which also creates an additional layer of tax in the U.S.
Despite the fact that the governments have a well-established process to resolve disputes between the two countries they were unable to agree on this issue and ended talks in 2013.
It is highly unusual that international tax authorities are unable to come to some agreement but in the current environment in which governments look for additional taxes from global companies occasionally the governments cannot come to a mutually agreeable solution.
This is what happened in our case.
Second it is important to point out that the company established the transfer price for this item in a manner that is prescribed under internationally recognized transfer pricing standards including relying on an independent study completed in 2001 that set what the independent firm concluded was an appropriate royalty rate.
Further we've evaluated our position thoroughly through the years and in fact we continue to evaluate our position as part of our normal quarterly and year-end financial statement preparation process.
The company has maintained and continues to maintain that its historical position is more appropriate than that asserted by the Danish tax authority and has examined all reasonable avenues to resolve this matter in a fair and equitable manner.
Third as disclosed in our SEC filings the numbers for the government's assessments are large and they continue to grow.
We strongly disagree with the government's calculation methodology which forms the basis of their assessment and believe we have solid technical merits in our position.
Fourth because of the inability of the IRS and the Danish tax authority to reach an agreement on mutually acceptable transfer pricing Tempur is left with the option of litigating the case in Danish administrative proceedings and then in the Danish court system or seeking to negotiate a compromise solution reestablishing negotiations with the Danish tax authority and the IRS.
We have been advised that there is very little history of transfer pricing litigation in the Danish courts.
In Denmark there are no courts that focus on tax matters unlike the U.S.
This adds to the unpredictability of pursuing a resolution through litigation.
So at this point the company would prefer a negotiated resolution on acceptable terms and the company has begun the process of discussing this with the Danish tax authority and the IRS.
While discussions are in the early stages the company believes that the possibility of avoiding litigation is promising.
Fifth during 2015 management and the Board reacting to the increasingly challenging European tax environment as evidenced in the financial press almost daily engaged an independent party to review the various positions and to develop an approach to attempt to resolve the matter.
In December the independent third-party provided the company with its recommendation which the company has independently analyzed and believes it represents a very fair and equitable outcome for all parties.
In connection with the preparation of the audited financial statements for 2015 the company has considered all facts and circumstances including items that occurred in 2015 that could materially impact the amount of potential exposure the company faces for all years through 2015.
We concluded that it is prudent and appropriate at this time to increase our recorded exposure for this item.
As such the company recorded a charge in the fourth quarter of approximately $61 million.
We believe that the company's tax reserve should provide the basis for negotiated settlement with both the Danish tax authorities and the IRS.
Such a settlement would result in avoiding uncertainties of the Danish courts in the current tax litigation environment.
However there are no assurances that we will be successful in which case we will pursue the matter in the Danish administrative process and then the Danish courts which would likely take several years to resolve.
We have considered this matter in our go-forward effective tax rate and expect 2016 to be approximately 30.5%.
Now turning back to our segment results.
North America net sales increased 3.8% and were up 5.3% in constant currency.
Solid growth of 4.8% in the U.S.
was driven by mid-single-digit growth for both the Tempur-Pedic brand and the Sealy brands.
This comparison was particularly impressive given the difficult compare.
As disclosed last year we experienced heavy year-end purchases from a few customers who elected to stretch to higher rebate tiers in the fourth quarter of 2014.
At that time we estimated $15 million to $20 million of incremental net sales from that activity.
We have changed our trade programs and as a result we do not have that type of year-end activity in 2015.
Therefore excluding the $15 million to $20 million from last year our North American net sales would have increased about 7%.
We've recorded a strong performance in Canada in the fourth quarter with sales increasing 10.7% on a constant currency basis.
However unfavorable foreign exchange translated sales into a reported decline of 5.8%.
Bedding product sales increased 4.3% on improved pricing and a slight unit increase.
Our new TEMPUR-Flex and Sealy Posturepedic products together with TEMPUR-Breeze products were drivers of growth.
Our other products are slightly down driven by a slight decline in pillow sales.
North America adjusted gross margin improved 230 basis points to 38.9%.
The gross margin improvement was driven principally by Tempur-Pedic U.S.
gross margin which was strong in the quarter and continued to benefit from improved efficiency in our operations which includes lower sourcing commodity costs supply chain and plant improvement as well as pricing.
Sealy U.S.
gross margins were stable year-on-year.
Though our current Sealy margin performance is below our long-term expectations we are encouraged by the progress from our operational initiatives.
We expect further good news in this area over the next year.
North America adjusted operating margin improved 320 basis points to 16.8% driven by the adjusted gross margin as well as an improvement in our selling and marketing leverage.
Turning to International net sales declined slightly yet on a constant currency basis were up 12.1% with growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Bedding product sales decreased 1.8% though on a constant currency basis were up 11.1%.
Units increased 18.2% reflecting significant growth from our Sealy brand business in Latin America and a special promotional event in our Asia-Pacific market.
As a result our International average selling price was down but this was entirely due to foreign exchange and a higher mix of Sealy products which have a lower average selling price relative to Tempur products.
Other channel sales were up 16.5% on a constant currency basis driven by strong Tempur direct sales.
International adjusted gross margin declined 410 basis points to 49.8% compared to prior year of 53.9% which drove a 400-basis-point decline in adjusted operating margin to 20%.
Our gross margin decline was driven by product and country mix from the increase in distribution of our Sealy-branded products.
As we've pointed out we are going to be mixing down internationally as we rolled out Sealy but this should be EBITDA-accretive.
Now I'll summarize the income statement for the full year 2015.
Sales increased 5.4% to $3.15 billion as compared to $2.9 billion in 2014.
North America sales increased 7.2% and International sales decreased 1.9%.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 9.4% with an 8.5% increase in North America and a 13.2% increase in International.
From a channel perspective and on a constant currency basis our Third-Party Retail business grew high-single-digits in both segments and our Direct business was particularly strong growing double-digits in both segments.
Adjusted operating income increased to $374 million as compared to $320 million in 2014.
Adjusted earnings per share in 2015 increased 20.4% to $3.19 as compared to adjusted EPS of $2.65 in 2014.
Now on a constant currency basis adjusted EPS increased 32%.
Now moving onto the key balance sheet and cash flow items.
At the end of the fourth quarter net debt was $1.4 billion an improvement from year-end 2014 of $214 million or 14%.
Our leverage ratio based on the ratio of consolidated funded debt less qualified cash to adjusted EBITDA as reported in the earnings release was three times as of the end of the fourth quarter.
And this ratio has improved significantly over the past year due to both debt pay-down and to an increase in EBITDA.
Operating cash flow in the fourth quarter was $101 million up from $44 million last year.
Operating cash flow less capital expenditures in the fourth quarter increased to $86 million from $27 million last year.
Our fourth quarter performance demonstrates the business's ability to generate strong cash flow.
Let me highlight a few points about the business's cash generation.
We are focused on improving cash cycle through inventory and supplier management and believe there is considerable opportunity for further improvement.
As to capital expenditures we expect to be returning to maintenance levels in the near future and as a reminder depreciation and amortization is running ahead of capital expenditures which we expect to continue for many years.
So the business's cash earnings potential is quite substantial.
Turning to our financial guidance for 2016 as Scott mentioned the company currently expects adjusted EBITDA to be in a range of $500 million to $550 million including approximately $20 million of commodity tailwinds partially offset by $10 million of expected foreign currency headwinds in 2016.
At the midpoint this adjusted EBITDA guidance represents a 15% growth rate on a reported basis or a 17% growth on a constant currency basis.
We are also providing the following additional full-year 2016 guidance assumptions: Sales growth of mid-single-digits on a reported basis and capital expenditures of approximately $75 million.
Our 2016 CapEx is slightly elevated due to our continued productivity initiatives.
Once we complete these initiatives we anticipate approximate $60 million to $65 million in annual capital expenditures.
We anticipate depreciation and amortization to be approximately $95 million to $100 million in 2016.
Our guidance is based on adjusted figures and dependent on the factors that I discussed at the beginning of the call.
From an adjusted EBITDA perspective our guidance reflects margin expansion resulting from improvements in North America offset partially by unfavorable merchandising mix internationally as we continue to launch our Sealy Europe operations as well as expand our distribution in Latin America and Asia.
We expect to ship a significant number of floor models as we launch the new Stearns &amp; Foster collections and the TEMPUR-Breeze offerings.
So the demand for floor models has been strong which is a great long-term sign but will put pressure on our reported numbers in the first half of the year as we expect product launch costs to be ahead of prior year in the first quarter and second quarter.
Please carefully note our 2016 earnings seasonality should be similar to what we saw in 2015 with about 40% of EBITDA coming in the first half of the year and 60% in the back half of the year.
And with the launches we discussed we expect the second quarter to be stronger than the first quarter.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Barry.
Great job.
One last topic I'd like to address since we talked last there's been a significant transaction in our industry.
I would like to congratulate Mattress Firm its Board of Directors Steve Stagner and his team on the pending acquisition of Sleepy's.
It's an exciting opportunity for Mattress Firm.
I also see as an exciting opportunity for the company to have our portfolio of brands sold in the first ever national specialty mattress retailer and one who shares the importance of advertising and driving higher ASP.
We're pleased to announce that we've reached an agreement to extend our long-term supply agreement with Mattress Firm and strengthen our relationship by offering the limited assortment of exclusive Tempur-Pedic and Stearns &amp; Foster products.
These products are designed to drive higher ASP and margins while creating broader array of products for our customers to choose from.
With that operator we open the call up for questions please.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Our first question comes from John Baugh with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and congratulations on a strong fourth quarter.
I was wondering if you could touch on Sealy International.
I think you made the comment Barry that you expect it to be EBITDA-accretive.
Obviously there was some drag on overall margins but could you give us a sense of where that rollout is? What the impact may be on revenue over the next couple of years and sort of what your expectation on profit is there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi this is Scott.
I can give you a little bit of that.
I don't do a lot a multi-year forecasting.
As I said in my part we're rolling out some newer products.
We think that it will be kind of back-loaded from an international standpoint.
Barry mentioned we're going to be mixing down but we see EBITDA growth overall from an international standpoint if you let me take out the FX which I have no idea which way it's going to go.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then quickly Barry on cash flow just quickly how would you expect working capital to play out in 2016 based on your mid-single-digit revenue forecast? You know John working capital tends to move around.
What I would say is over the long term we're very focused on improving cash cycle.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks we think that there's a significant continued opportunity in payables and we're working on inventory days.
And so I would say that that's our focus over the long term.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I'll defer to others.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning Scott and Barry.
Wanted to ask about trends that you're seeing in North America really domestically more specifically.
I think on the Tempur side you said that if we back out some of the one-time purchases that happened in the fourth quarter last year you would have been up about 7%.
I think last quarter you'd been running at about 9.6% growth.
Could you just give us a little bit more of a sense of what you've been seeing in the domestic market and how you're thinking about the outlook for the Tempur brand in particular in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure let me talk a little bit about just North America and I'll let Barry talk about particular brand.
I mean when we look at the world we split the world up between North America and Europe primarily because those are the biggest drivers of our business.
The other markets we're in are significant from a growth standpoint for the long term.
When we look at North America I mean you look at it consumers have a cleaner balance sheet.
We've got an improving housing cycle with housing starts forecasted to be up.
House prices are forecasted to be up.
GDP call it 2.1% not great but certainly not bad.
Consumer confidence looks good at 96.5% again not great but not bad.
Unemployment rate going from 5.3% this year to 4.8% or so maybe next year looks pretty good.
Wage growth not great but again not bad.
Maybe there is a wealth effect from the recent market activity.
Certainly we're feeling some pressure from the oil markets.
Texas is doing fine but I'd say Houston is a little bit weak but we're benefiting in other markets.
So when I put North America together from a macro standpoint I would call it good and we expect solid growth in North America.
Brad what I would add to that is when I mentioned the kind of 7% if you had adjusted for the buy-ups last year that was all of North America.
So that's Tempur Sealy and Canada so if you – most of that activity you're right and what you alluded to was on the Tempur-Pedic brand.
And as we said on – as I said in my prepared remarks Tempur-Pedic brand was up mid-single-digits.
So if you added the $15 million to $20 million of the buy-up last year and kind of adjusted for that you'd get a much higher growth rate kind of mid-teens which would be similar to where we've been running through the last few quarters.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and thank you for all the color this morning.
I wonder if I could coax maybe a little bit more color and assumptions on how you see going from the sales line through to the adjusted EBITDA line for 2016 in terms of cost of goods sold operating expenses and maybe Barry through a little bit on the tax rate expectation for the year? Well Budd I would say we don't want to get that granular but as we alluded to on the prepared remarks we expect a continued improvement on gross margin.
I mentioned that we'll have some commodity benefit; we'll have some pricing benefit.
Floor models obviously in the launch just because of the magnitude and the scale of the launch and the price points that we're talking about will be up.
And then as Scott mentioned we're going to increase our advertising.
And so – but beyond that getting too granular that's kind of how we think about it.
Inc.</span></strong> And tax rate for the year how should we plan...? Yeah we're using 30.5% as I mentioned in the prepared remarks.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes through Mark Rupe with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Great.
How are you doing? Doing good.
Good.
Could you share any color maybe on pricing benefit in 2016 versus 2015? Mark the way I would think about this is we've raised prices as Scott mentioned on both Tempur-Pedic and a small range of Sealy brand products.
And those were mattresses so when you think about our pricing obviously people should focus on what we specifically raised.
So that's the mattress portion of our business and only a select range.
So I'd be thinking about a low single-digit percent increase.
All right.
Perfect.
Thanks.
But for mattress.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning it's Seth Basham.
Thanks for taking my question.
I'd like to get a little bit more color around the trends on unit growth in the fourth quarter in North America specifically? I think Barry you mentioned they're up slightly.
Does that statement still stand excluding adjustable foundations? Hi Seth good morning.
Without getting too granular I can tell you that our mattresses as a component of the bedding were positive and we also had a kind of a steady attach rate on adjustables on our Tempur-Pedic brand.
We do see adjustables over the long-term as something that from an attach rate perspective has room particularly on our Sealy brand side where as you mix up within the brands and we have a sort of innovation that we've had with Stearns &amp; Foster and our Posturepedic Hybrid we think that there's an opportunity there for additional adjustable sales and attach rates.
And as you may remember from the Las Vegas Bedding Show we just recently introduced a new adjustable the Ease (43:12) by Sealy which I think has really nice features and functionality at a sharp price point.
So we expect improving performance from adjustables over time.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a follow-up if I may as you look at 2016 would you expect to see positive unit growth for Tempur-Pedic in North America? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> And that's on mattresses as well as adjustables? Yeah.
When we're thinking about what we've got going in Seth for 2016 the Breeze collection and what we're doing and as well as building on the very positive launch we've had from Flex we certainly would expect unit growth from our Tempur-Pedic brand business and the attach rate even if it was just flat you'd see growth as a result so.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities.
Your line is open.
Hello? Operator maybe we can go to the next one...
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Hey Jessica.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> I'm good.
Understanding you don't want to talk about any product launches in particular I was wondering if you could comment on the general consumer behavior around bedding purchases that you've seen in the recent quarters.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Recent quarters being third quarter and fourth quarter? Inc.</span></strong> Yes just on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Fourth quarter and January yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes and high-end or different categories and how that's really informed your decision about your product strategy in the year ahead? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah look I would tell you that we feel like – we're talking North America right now specifically we can talk about the other markets if you want to but right now we're talking about North America.
I'd tell you demand feels good.
I mean as I said in the prepared remarks January started out in a very solid fashion and from our viewpoint it looks like North American consumer is in very good shape.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
As you look at the 2016 guidance you've given at least directionally can you talk about Sealy gross margins and which way they would be moving in your view and any other detail you can give on initiatives you have around Sealy for the next sort of year or two? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean directionally it's pretty easy.
We expect it to go up.
Okay? As we talked about pretty clearly I think on the third quarter call my recollection is Sealy margin had declined 100 basis points since third quarter year-over-year.
In the fourth quarter what we're saying is that that deterioration stopped and it became stable.
So we'll call that improvement but we certainly wouldn't call that success.
So our clear indication is we would expect to have more good news about the Sealy margin initiatives that we put in place throughout the year.
And it will take several quarters to get where we probably want to get to.
But we certainly expect the Sealy margin to improve some during 2016.
We don't really have time on the call to go through the initiatives but I can tell you that the entire North America team is focused on Sealy margins.
And like I said we're beginning to see real progress as the numbers come in.
So if you give me one more quarter and ask me that question on the first quarter I think I can probably go into more detail but I appreciate the thought.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
On the advertising increase that's planned for this year across a number of different brands I don't know if you would be able to quantify the percent increase in dollar spend that would be helpful.
But one question we'll be getting is how you think about that from a cost takeout perspective? Do you want to match cost takeouts with advertising increase and drive overall SG&amp;A savings or should we just anticipate some pressure on the SG&amp;A line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean I guess I don't tie the two together and I'll let Barry take a crack at this after me.
We are committed to advertising for the long-term and I don't see a trade-off between one pot of cost and advertising.
Advertising drives this business.
We were founded on it and so we will advertise whatever we think the right number is regardless of what's going on in other cost initiatives.
Having said that do we have cost initiatives in place? Sure we are working on other cost areas but I really don't tie the two together.
Barry do you have any other color there? I think you hit the high points.
We're going to increase our advertising spend Peter and that will go up a little bit on a rate basis and that's all embedded in the guidance.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Curtis Nagle with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for taking the question.
Just a quick question I guess on the buybacks.
Just I guess given the leverage targets you guys have laid out anything more you could say in terms of the timing given that $200 would – not saying it's a mismatch but leverage should imply something maybe little bit bigger so again just initial step or how should we think about that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah your math is right.
I mean if you go through the leverage target and you look at the expected operating cash flow the current authorization the buyback looks relatively small compared to what the potential could be.
What I was trying to say in my prepared remarks is we've got authorization for $200 million.
We see this as the start of a long-term process and we expect future authorizations.
We have some debt agreements that we have to work through and Barry can walk you through that in a minute.
But no I would see this is as the initial share buyback.
Hey Curtis we have the credit facility which we are going to be working on and then we have the 2020 high-yield bonds those both would – the first step would be to as Scott alluded to work through the credit facility which is something we've got under way and then the bonds would be a factor.
Those are callable in December so that's another thought to think through and I would be happy to talk to folks about that in detail since it's all disclosed already on additional calls.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just a question regarding kind of the overall innovation level of cadence of it this year versus same time last year.
Just curious kind of how you are feeling let's say the two bigger – the TEMPUR brand as well as Stearns &amp; Foster where you have had the most innovation recently this time versus last year.
What you think is kind of the incremental newness and the impact of it and then over time if you can comment on it where you think there are opportunities for further additions to the product pipeline or added features? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
I'm going to have to be a little bit careful with your question because obviously there's competitive information that you're kind of fishing around which I'm probably not going to get anywhere close to on an open call.
I think what I would say is the first thing I did when I got here was to look at the pipeline because I do think that's a critical part for the company's continuing success and the pipeline as I've said before is robust.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks our spending in R&amp;D is up which goes to our commitment and I would tell you that there is a well developed plan for products over a multi-year period that we feel very good about.
And I don't know if you want to add anything Barry to that.
I think I would just add that as our customers and a lot of investors saw at Las Vegas in the bedding show and we feel like we brought a tremendous amount of innovation this year to the Stearns &amp; Foster collection as well as the TEMPUR brand.
Stearns we have the new Nano coils.
We've got the Precision Edge all the way around.
We totally reinvented our proprietary IntelliCoil.
In the Reserve Collection we've just created I think a tremendous ultra-premium halo collection there which will help mix up pricing.
So the Stearns &amp; Foster collection Dan is well improved.
And that's an area as we said on the last call was a focus area because our product margins and our merchandising mix really specifically merchandising mix has been a challenge.
And that's at the high end on our Sealy brand portfolio.
And then on the TEMPUR side the new Breeze as Scott mentioned in detail in his prepared remarks it is a significant advancement in cooling.
We estimate it's twice as cooling as the prior collection and the aesthetics are great.
We've increased the profiles and importantly we've introduced a Breeze for the Flex Collection our Hybrid which has been so successful this year.
So we think we brought a tremendous amount of innovation this year.
We can't wait to get it out onto showroom floors.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mark Rupe with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Well can you share any details on the exclusivity arrangement on the products with the new mattresses firm deal? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not really anymore than I already have which they are designed to drive higher ASP and be margin accretive.
Okay.
You think it's a portion of the line like a small piece of the line or is it more of an entire line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say like I said in the prepared remarks we are offering a limited assortment of exclusives.
Perfect.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for today's questions.
I would now like to turn the call back to the company for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you operator.
To the 7000 employees worldwide thank you for what you do every day to make the company successful.
To our retail partners thank you for your outstanding representation of our brands.
To our shareholders and lenders thank you for your confidence in Tempur Sealy's leadership team and the board of directors.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.