Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Thomson Reuters First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And also as a reminder this teleconference is being recorded.
And at this time I will turn the conference call over to your host Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining as we report our first quarter 2011 results.
We'll begin today with Thomson Reuters' CEO Tom Glocer who will be followed by our CFO Bob Daleo.
Now following Tom and Bob's presentations we'll open the call for questions and I'd ask that you please limit yourselves to one question each.
Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period on period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
In today's earnings release we announced that we have signed an agreement for the sale of our BAR/BRI Legal Education business which is expected to close late this quarter.
And earlier this month we closed on the sale of our Scandinavian Legal and Tax &amp; Accounting business.
We also announced today our intention to sell our Enterprise Risk and PORTIA businesses in the Markets division.
These dispositions are expected to close in the second half of this year.
Today's presentation and discussion excludes the results of these 4 disposals.
Now on our website you'll find the results for the first quarter including these businesses for purposes of comparability.
Lastly also on our website we provide 2 years of financials excluding the results of these disposals.
Now today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations department.
It's now my pleasure to introduce the Chief Executive Officer of Thomson Reuters Tom Glocer.
Thank you Frank.
And thank you all for joining us this morning.
I plan to cover 3 topics today.
First I'll discuss our first quarter 2011 results.
Second I'll comment on a few major developments in the quarter.
And third I'll provide an update on our 2011 outlook before turning it over to Bob.
But before I begin I'd be remiss if I didn't acknowledge that it's just over 3 years since the acquisition of Reuters.
And over that period we've integrated the company rolled out innovative product platforms built to #39 global brand safely navigated the financial crisis and returned to growth.
We've accomplished a lot but there's much more to do.
The investments that we've made in our new product platforms position us to compete successfully and achieve results from scale.
And we're finding new ways to leverage and combine assets across our businesses to meet evolving customer needs and to further consolidate platforms.
It's gratifying to me to see the fruits of this progress just beginning to be borne out in our financial results that I'll share with you now.
I'm pleased with the first quarter's results for both the Professional and Markets division.
The positive momentum we experienced in the fourth quarter carried into the first quarter as revenues increased 5% the strongest quarter since Q4 2008 and a significant improvement compared to a 2% decline in the first quarter of 2010.
The Professional division's revenues were up 8% and the Markets division's revenues grew 2% which would've been 3% excluding recoveries.
And Bob will provide you with more detail in a moment on this.
As I mentioned last quarter the current economic environment for us is one of rising business optimism although that optimism and the opportunities for growth are unevenly distributed across the globe.
Conditions in the financial and legal services markets continue to improve the environment in legal has certainly picked up with overall demand for services increasing and small law firms corporations government and academic institutions opening the spigot a bit more.
However large law firms are still cautious in their buying patterns and I'd certainly be worried if we didn't have a great platform like WestlawNext.
And over in the Markets division we are seeing good uptake of our new Eikon and Elektron platforms but the overall environment in financial services is still far from robust.
For the quarter our underlying operating margin was 17.2% dampened by $39 million in one-time charges to fund efficiency measures.
Excluding these charges the margin was 18.4% versus 18% flat in the prior year period.
And importantly these one-time charges highlight that even as our integration process winds down we continue to find and execute against efficiency opportunities to streamline our operations and to improve margins long-term.
And I'll discuss this in more detail on the next slide.
Adjusted earnings per share in the quarter were $0.39 compared to $0.36 in Q1 2010.
And included in this one-time charges had a $0.03 impact on earnings.
Lastly we're affirming our full year 2011 outlook given the first quarter results and the favorable trends in the business.
Against the backdrop of improving global markets our priorities for 2011 remain the same: accelerating growth and improving efficiency.
Our growth strategy has 3 components: continued to focus on our ongoing investments in core businesses such as U.S.
Legal and Sales &amp; Trading in developed markets accelerated investment in faster growing international markets; and third reallocation of investment to faster growing segments within and throughout our existing markets.
In the Legal segment the benefits of our investments over the past few years are reflected in a 10% increase in revenues in the quarter with contributions from across the unit.
And in Markets our $1.1 billion Enterprise business also grew 10% from increased demand for our low latency real-time offerings delivered over our new Elektron platform and from global expansion.
We opened an Elektron hosting center in India in the first quarter and plan to open one in Brazil this quarter.
We're also finding new ways to leverage and combine assets across our businesses and consolidate platforms.
In short to work smarter and more efficiently.
Margin improvement in the first quarter was masked by the one-time charges I mentioned earlier but will clearly show through in the coming quarters and for the full year.
Excluding these one-time charges the EBITDA margin grew 70 basis points and the operating margin grew 40 basis points both compared to Q1 2010.
The good news is that we expect to achieve savings of $40 million this year and will deliver more than that in 2012 from having taken the actions associated with these one-time charges.
Lastly we're also focused on accelerating our organic growth by reallocating capital and talent to drive growth in returns across the company.
Today we announced the planned divestiture of 2 businesses in the Markets division which when combined with the proceeds of the previously announced sales of BAR/BRI and our Scandinavian Legal and Tax &amp; Accounting businesses are expected to deliver approximately $1 billion for reinvestment in the attractive opportunities that we continue to find in our core businesses.
So in conclusion let me reiterate that I'm pleased with the start to the year.
Momentum continues to build off the turnaround we began to see last year.
My priorities are unchanged from what I outlined in February just as our outlook remains unchanged for the year.
With higher expected top line growth efficiency initiatives gaining speed integration spend ending this year and a planned reduction in capital expenditures we're positioned to achieve strongly expanding margins and increased cash flow.
And let me now turn it over to Bob Daleo.
Thank you Tom.
And good morning and good afternoon to everyone.
Today I'll cover the first quarter results and I'll provide an update on our full year outlook.
Now our results in the first quarter were consistent with our expectations that we outlined at the time of the fourth quarter results.
And they provide the confirmation that we're tracking to the outlook we discussed in February for accelerating revenue growth and strong margin and free cash flow improvement.
As in our prior quarters I will speak to revenue growth before currency.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In addition for consistency and comparability with our previously reported results all the results that I'm going to discuss today are on an ongoing basis and exclude the BAR/BRI and Scandinavia Enterprise Risk and PORTIA businesses all of which are included in disposals.
And as Frank mentioned appended to this presentation on our website are a set of slides including the results for Enterprise Risk and PORTIA.
With the consolidated business revenues in the first quarter were up 5% versus the prior year with a 3% benefit from acquisitions.
Growth accelerated during the quarter and both Professional and Markets divisions achieved organic revenue growth.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 4% in the quarter and underlying operating profit was up 1% in the quarter despite recording these $39 million of one-time charges.
Now as you can see from this chart growth has accelerated as our markets recover and we realized the benefits of the investments we made last year.
This growth was driven by 3 primary factors.
First coming off a year of investment in new product platforms such as WestlawNext Eikon Elektron the ONESOURCE global tax workstation and Advantage Suite 5.0 we've never had a more advanced set of products delivered to our customers.
Second and as Tom mentioned both the financial services and legal services markets continue to improve albeit at a slower pace that we would like to see.
Legal demand is up especially at smaller firms and in the corporate general counsel's office while large law firms remain cautious.
Our products have targeted the right markets and we're positioned to capture growth.
Lastly acquisitions and global expansion have contributed to an acceleration of growth.
Two examples to share with you.
Last year the Professional division entered Brazil through the acquisition of Revista dos Tribunais in the first quarter and we launched the online product this quarter.
This is the first online research service in Brazil and we built it on the WestlawNext platform.
Now Brazil is a market with over 600 000 attorneys.
We expect strong growth on the Brazilian legal market over the next several years.
In Markets we are positioned to continue to capture growth from rapidly developing economies including the Gulf region China and Brazil.
Now in Brazil as Tom mentioned we are launching Eikon in São Paulo later this quarter.
And we're confident that this will be a driver of growth in that market over the next few years.
So overall we expect the underlying trends will continue through the balance of 2011.
However further acceleration in the road of growth will be a bit challenged as we cycle over acquisitions in the second half of this year.
Now during the quarter we recorded $39 million in one-time efficiency-related charges $28 million in the Markets division and $11 million in Professional division.
Both these actions were taken earlier in the year so we expect to realize cost savings of $40 million this year which will contribute to an acceleration in margins as the year progresses.
As Tom mentioned these are underlying long-term improvements that reflect our continued drive for greater efficiency and effectiveness.
And they are on top of the benefits from the integration process that is drawing to a close.
Excluding these charges the adjusted EBITDA margin increased 70 basis points and underlying operating profit margin rose 40 basis points.
Our business outlook for the full year calls for a 100 basis point plus improvement in our operating profit margin and we remain on track to achieve that.
Now I'll turn to the operating divisions starting with Professional.
Professional division recorded first quarter revenue growth of 8% 4% organic and 4% from acquisitions.
This was driven by solid performance from each of the 3 business units.
EBITDA increased 6% compared to the prior year and the corresponding margin was 30.4% down 90 basis points.
This decline in margin was due to the $11 million in one-time charges and the dilutive effect of last year's acquisitions.
Operating profit was up 4% compared to the prior year and the margin declined 90 basis for the same reasons I discussed regarding EBITDA.
Now I'll talk about the results for the segments within Professional.
As mentioned we saw good growth across Professional division in the quarter particularly in Legal.
Legal first quarter revenues were up 10% 4% on an organic basis with the balance coming from acquisitions.
The Corporate Government &amp; Academic businesses grew 12% of which 8% was organic and partly aided by the acquisition of Serengeti.
The Business of Law segment which includes FindLaw and Elite was up 20% 16% of this was organic.
Revenues from small and solo firms were up 1% and current revenues also increased partly related to timing.
Operating profit increased 3% from revenue flowthrough and savings from efficiency initiatives which offset $10 million in one-time charges.
The margin declined to 24.4%.
Excluding the $10 million in one-time charges operating profit rose 8% and the margin declined 80 basis points to 25.5% from a year ago.
And again this is primarily due to the dilutive effect of the impact of last year's acquisitions.
Now turning to Tax &amp; Accounting where first quarter revenues grew 4% 3% was organic.
Growth was driven by sales of income tax software and Global Tax technology products such as our tax provision solutions.
Tax &amp; Accounting continues to show strong EBITDA growth recording its third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
The business is reaping the rewards following a period of heavy investment and acquisitions and organic growth initiatives.
Now likewise operating profit increased 17% and the associated margin was up 160 basis points to 15.1%.
Healthcare &amp; Science revenues grew 6% in the quarter which 5% was organic.
Growth was driven by the Payer business which was up double-digits and the Life Science business which was up 14% of which 8% was organic.
Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research revenues were down 2% primarily related to timing.
Operating profit was flat and the corresponding margin declined 120 basis points to 20%.
The decline in operating margin was due to timing of revenues and a difficult prior year comparable.
Now let's turn to the Markets division.
In the first quarter the Markets division's revenues grew 2% almost all of this was organic continuing to show an improving trend from both the prior year and the prior quarter.
The improvement was driven by 2% growth in recurring revenues which account for 77% of the division's revenues.
And transaction outright revenues grew 15% and 3% respectively more than offsetting a 5% decline in recoveries revenues.
In a moment I'll show you what our growth looked like excluding these recoveries.
EBITDA declined 1% and as expected the margin fell 120 basis points from the prior period to 25.3%.
This includes a $28 million in one-time charges.
Excluding these charges EBITDA increased 5% and the margin expanded by 30 basis points.
Segment operating profit in the quarter grew 4% and the margin was flat from the prior period at 17.7%.
Excluding the one-time charges operating profit increased 13% and the margin expanded 150 basis points.
We expect further improvement in both EBITDA and operating margins as the year progresses and we continue to achieve further integration savings and realize the benefits of revenue growth.
Now before I turn to the results on the individual segments within Markets let's spend a minute on the impact of recoveries revenues on the division.
Now let me remind you that recoveries are low-margin pass-through revenues generated by third parties largely exchanges.
Recovery revenues were down 5% in the first quarter as exchanges continued to move clients to a direct bill model and we lose these lower-margin exchange fees.
Recoveries had a 100 basis point negative impact on the division's reported growth in Q1 despite the fact that they constitute only 10% of the division's revenues.
This trend may lower growth but over the long term it is positive for our margins.
Our Q1 recurring revenues excluding -- our Q1 revenues excluding recoveries grew 3% versus the 2% that we have reported.
Now I will discuss the revenue results for each of the market segments.
Sales &amp; Trading revenues were up 2% driven by Tradeweb growth of 35% primarily due to the change in our ownership in the business which was partly offset by a 9% decline in recoveries revenue.
Now excluding recoveries revenues in Sales &amp; Trading were up 5%.
The Commodities &amp; Energy segment was up 9% primarily due to the acquisition of Point Carbon.
The Treasury business grew 1% while Exchange Traded Instruments declined 6% due to planned shutdowns of low-margin products and the impact of the recoveries which is in the segment.
Investment &amp; Advisory revenues declined 1% with Corporate revenues increasing 3% Wealth Management revenues rising 1%.
However Investment Management revenues declined 4% as its performance continues to be affected by competitive pressures.
Enterprise continued to perform very well growing 10% in the quarter all of which was organic.
This was driven by continued strong customer demand for its innovative data distribution platform.
Elektron now has 12 hosting centers around the world.
Real-Time Solutions grew 10% and the Enterprise Content was up 17% due to continued strong demand for pricing and reference data.
And finally Media's revenues increased 1% in the quarter driven by 2010 new sales performance.
Now let me turn to adjusted earnings per share.
Underlying profit in the first quarter was $556 million including the $39 million of one-time charges.
To arrive at adjusted earnings we make the following adjustments.
We deduct $70 million of integration program expense.
We deduct $101 million of interest expense.
We deduct $53 million of income tax expense.
Note that our tax rate in the first quarter was 22% versus 23.7% last year and this results in flat income tax despite the higher profits.
And finally we deduct $7 million of noncontrolling interests.
The net result is $324 million of adjusted earnings or $0.39 per diluted share an increase of $0.03 versus a year ago.
A complete reconciliation from net income to adjusted earnings is available in the press release which we issued this morning.
Now turning to free cash flow.
The first quarter has historically been weaker for free cash flow for the company and it is not at all reflective of what we expect for our full year performance.
Underlying free cash flow for the quarter was $13 million and this represents a $94 million decline versus the prior period primarily due to unfavorable working capital which is timing-related and as we discussed in the fourth quarter call.
For the full year we expect to generate strong levels of free cash flow.
Now just turning briefly to our 2011 outlook.
As Tom mentioned we affirmed our full year outlook as our expected performance this year and this is before any currency impact.
First quarter revenues were up 5% for the full year.
We continue to expect revenues to be at the mid-single-digits.
Our first quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.2%.
However excluding one-time charges this was 24.4% and we believe we are on track to achieve a 300 basis point plus increase from our 2010 margin.
Our first quarter underlying operating margin was 17.2%.
However excluding one-time charges it was 18.4%.
Again we believe we are on track to achieve a 100 basis point plus increase from our 2010 operating margin.
Let me remind you that the first quarter is typically the smallest quarter of the year from a profitability standpoint.
We continue to expect that strong EBITDA growth in 2011 will contribute a 20% to 25% growth in reported free cash flow.
So just wrapping up in summary our revenue growth and trends continued to improve in the first quarter signs that our markets are improving and our new products are gaining momentum.
Our results in the first quarter were consistent with our expectations and confirm that we're tracking to our outlook which we discussed with you in February for strong margin improvement and free cash flow growth.
And we continue to optimize our portfolio announcing disposals this quarter that will improve our growth prospects while enhancing our long-term returns.
Now let me turn it back over to Frank to open it up for questions and answers.
Okay.
Thanks very much Bob.
Operator we are happy to take questions now.
So if we could field the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Tom I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the adjusted EBITDA margin gain expected in the back half of the year.
How much of that is dependent on revenue growth versus completed integration programs that are sort of already in hand? And how should we think about that sort of phasing in over the back end of the year? Well as you could see from our results there is a significant phasing effect.
Bob just mentioned that the first quarter is typically the smallest quarter from a profit point of view.
And I know some of you have properly phased the expectations through the year and others seemed to have just put it through exactly equal each quarter.
And I think the best I can tell you is we've sat down and redone all our forecasts on the basis of the most recent data and the sales information we've got.
And it still looks strongly like we're tracking to the guidance 300 basis points plus over the full year and it'll obviously be more back-end weighted.
But we always expected it would be.
As between the revenues and the cost at this point in the year frankly on a subscription model the revenues still can move but we're far enough in that there's no pronounced effect whether it's cost or revenue.
Okay.
And just a last follow-up on that.
The use of proceeds out of the $1 billion from the sale how should we sort of think about where that cash gets redeployed into the business or how it will be redeployed? Since Bob grabs that cash immediately I'm going to let him answer that.
Okay.
Paul I think that this cash like any cash that we generate in our business we think of in -- as within our capital allocation model.
So our primary objective in this cash would be to redeploy it into the business.
We think we have a long runway of opportunities of growth and investments.
We're not going to be solely about this and it's not going to burn a hole in our pocket.
And like anything else if -- as we have demonstrated in the past we have as our capital strategy I think we're very well disciplined between what we allocate to reinvestment and how we return cash to shareholders.
And so over the longer term as we generate this cash if we -- and the cash we generate from the business if we can't find the appropriate uses for it which I have no doubt we will be able to do but if we can't we'll certainly find ways to return it to the shareholders either in dividends or buybacks as we have done in the past.
Our next question in queue that will come from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just my question on margin guidance for 2011 as of the end of last quarter the basis that we were using was 19.3% which excluded the divestitures that you announced last quarter.
Does that 19.3% base by which 2011 guidance is determined do the 2 new divestitures impact that at all? Should we be using something that's higher or lower as a result? I think you should continue to use that basis because those businesses in the aggregate [ph] were about the same.
Our next question in queue that will come from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
I'm hoping I can sneak in a clarification as well as a question.
On Slide 24 you say free cash flow was $2 billion last year and then you have 20% to 25% growth as your guidance.
It was my impression that 20% to 25% growth was off of the free cash flow after integration costs last year which was more like $1.6 billion.
So I'm hoping you just clarify that.
The question I have is on these new restructuring costs of $39 million.
Can you just give us some more detail on what those actually entail? And can you confirm that the 100 basis point of margin increase for the year on your guidance would absorb those $39 million in costs you'd expect to still grow 100 bps even with that drag? Well I'll answer the first one I'll turn it over to Tom for the second.
And the answer to the first one is easy.
Yes it is free cash flow after integration.
And you are right on the basis on which you were comparing 2010.
So it was a 20% 25% growth off of the underlying or actually off of the actual which was around $1.6 billion.
And in terms of the $39 million let me back up and first say I view this as a really good thing right? We have taken large integration charges associated with the Reuters integration.
That program is ending this year.
It's on track.
Obviously we produce more savings than we initially thought and that's all great.
But we don't stop looking for regular annual incremental efficiencies in the business.
And what you see us doing here with the $39 million is identifying early in the year new opportunities.
In this case to answer to your question Vince it's mostly people cost.
We did a streamlining and delayering in the Professional division and similarly in Markets.
They're beginning now that we're through with integration to go through and look at spans of control and number of layers.
So that's where most of the costs are it's severance-related.
And not only does it pay for itself in the year incurred which is how we can get back to answer your third part of the question to the still 100 basis points improvement it will pay a dividend greater than that next year because we'll get the full year effect.
Our next question in queue that will come from the line of Phillip Huang with UBS Securities.
I just want to -- actually I have a further clarification on the one-time charges.
Just given that these efficiency opportunities are ongoing I was wondering what you think in terms of how much more of such costs do you expect to see in the coming quarters.
How much more of related to this particular activity or additional activities? Is that your question? Yes or just in general given that this is sort of one-time in the quarter.
But I think you also mentioned in the release that these efficiency opportunities are ongoing.
I was wondering if we can expect to see these type of costs from I guess like every couple of quarters or so.
We really don't have anything at this particular time.
But I think that that reference was more towards just taking opportunities as they arrive.
But we don't have any.
I think that we'll probably see another $5 million or $6 million over the course of the year really maybe second quarter related to these.
But then again they're all self-funding they're all included in our ability to achieve our outlook.
But there's nothing significant beyond that on the horizon at this point.
I guess do you guys look at this on an annual like do you guys look at it every year? Or do you think that this is kind of like as you go along if you find opportunities that's something that you would do? It's just a normal course of managing the business.
As we evaluate situations change and opportunities present themselves and we encourage our businesses to always think about how to be more effective and more efficient.
And so...
Yes I think the way Phillip I look at it is this if you're on an annual guidance basis and you're looking at EPS for the year or any of the lines there should be no effect.
But because people are sensitive quarter-to-quarter we're calling out the extraordinary costs incurred early in the year so you don't think that that's actually the underlying trend in the business.
So you may have every year something similar but on an annual basis it all washes out.
Got it.
And I think you just mentioned that the 100 basis point improvement in the margin for your outlook that excludes the restructuring charges.
Is that correct? No that includes -- well what we have said was we would spend $39 million.
And during the course of this year we will recoup virtually the same amount of savings so it is netted into that number.
And our next question in queue that will come from the line of Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
This is David Lewis for Michael.
Could you provide an update on the customer conversations you were having with the rollout of WestlawNext now that we're a year in? Given the significant efficiencies of the WestlawNext drive could the value proposition support more attractive pricing as the legal market slowly recovers? It's Tom David.
The conversations continue to be very positive.
And you see that playing out in the continually upticking of the percentage of our revenues converted over to WestlawNext and the number of users.
Undoubtedly there is additional pricing room given the productivity increase.
We've been careful though and recognizing that many of the law firms are still coming out of a very difficult period.
And so we've been conservative in our approach and looking to get as much migrated and rolled out while still achieving I think quite an attractive overall increase in it.
And we look at it -- actually the people running the business who are closest to it look at it constantly and tweak these models.
And our next question in queue that will come from the line of Tim Casey with BMO Capital Markets.
First a clarification then a question.
Just on the guidance that you reaffirmed that you've reaffirmed the growth rates but it is essentially going to be off a lower base because of the divestitures.
I just want to make sure I'm looking at that correctly.
And secondly on the proceeds you mentioned $1 billion.
That includes all announced divestitures including the 2 that were announced today I'm assuming.
And is there a way you can give us a breakdown of how you're getting to the $1 billion? How much is with the Markets group and how much is with the previously announced ones? I'll take the second question Tim and leave the clarification for Bob.
Normally I'd be happy to provide that breakdown but for one thing which is we've just announced the last 2 in Markets.
These are really valuable assets and we've had a good track record at even surprising ourselves sometimes in how much comes in from them.
So I'd rather not start signaling expectations for the market.
But after the facts we'd be more than happy to do it.
But you're quite confident you'll get the cash this year Tom? Yes I think it's -- given where we are in these processes yes there's always the possibility that depending on who the buyer is that there's an antitrust delay.
But given what these particular assets are and the structure of those markets I'd expect that these can get done this year.
And to answer your first question Tim the guidance is off of the base which would exclude these businesses okay? So the percentages hold but the base is different because of the dispositions.
And our next question in queue that will come from the line of Brian Karimzad with Goldman Sachs.
On the emerging markets within the Markets division there can you give us a sense on how growth is there and kind of what's been holding it back a bit? Because the latest headline we look at the growth in Asia and EMEA and I know you have Japan and Western Europe in those numbers.
It's certainly not meaningfully above what we're seeing in the Americas.
I was wondering if you can help us understand what's going on and potentially what could accelerate it.
Well I think you're seeing -- certainly in the Asia-Pac you're seeing the sluggish for a good reason performance in Japan pulling down.
I mean last time I looked at relative breakdown Japan was about 40% of overall Asia in Markets.
And although we all hope in all of our businesses to see a recovery in Japan that did have a pronounced effect in the first quarter for us.
The other thing I just mentioned this is really in the weed for people who love to tweak their models but the way the Japanese market works the beginning of the year is actually April 1 there.
And so although we put through our price increases January 1 and the rest of the year it's April 1 in Japan and that has an effect given the size of Japan also.
All right.
And any color just on some of the developing markets themselves and what their growth rates have been and some initiatives? Well I was just through the Gulf a couple of weeks ago and that's reasonably large market for us.
And that's recovering nicely after a sort of flat to negative time in growing out of the Dubai restructuring.
Southeast Asia still strong.
Latin America really strong for us especially on the Professional side as we launched Revista Online in Brazil which looks really really promising.
And our next question in queue that will come from the line of Patrick Wellington with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of points of clarification Tom.
I mean firstly on organic growth in Markets I think twice in the presentation you refer to it as 2% in the quarter although the table on Page 10 refers to it as being 1%.
So I was wondering which is the correct number.
Second question is on the disposals in Markets.
As you say Enterprise Risk and PORTIA looked like they could be valuable businesses.
Can you give us some idea of what their organic growth rates are? Were they above or below average for the division? And really why you think it is suitable to sell these businesses? And then finally can you give us a little bit more on 2 specific markets what's going on in Sales &amp; Trading which is still sort of dropping along at 0 growth maybe a little bit disappointing? And what you think will start to move the large law market in due course? Okay.
There are a whole bunch of questions.
I'll start taking them apart and at least Bob will pick up.
So on the reasons for the divestitures in Markets you're right these are very attractive businesses.
But we're also very serious in Markets to follow the 2 platform strategy that Devin Wenig outlined at the recent Investor Day Elektron and Eikon.
The Risk Management business is really a trade risk trade management business.
It's a deployed software business as you know done on an outright basis as opposed to the rest of our business which is much more a recurring subscription basis.
So both the nature of the business itself selling large deployed software systems on a once-off consulting like basis and the business model accounting which is on an outright versus the recurring just doesn't fit the overall way we run that business.
It's attractive it's growing but it shouldn't have a pronounced effect one way or the other on the growth rates in Markets.
Now large law.
Large law is recovering but they're still quite cautious.
I see a lot of those folks.
The very strong performance you see in our Business of Law segment that's separate from WestlawNext sales of things like our Elite ERP system very strong in large law.
So you're seeing the refresh of technology cycle apply there.
And I've been out on a whole bunch of the sales calls there and that's very positive.
But law firms themselves are being cautious in adding heads.
There's still a couple of law firms here or there that haven't worked through their problems from the last couple of years.
So I think it will be steady and recovering in large law but not an instant pop.
And Patrick the organic growth is 2% excluding recoveries and 1% including recoveries.
And Tom just Sales &amp; Trading flat for the last couple of quarters.
You want it [ph] to sort of be a little bit better at this stage? Yes.
Well my view it always should be better.
The business our model always tends to be slow to slow down and slow to pick up speed.
But when it does very attractive operating leverage.
In particular in Sales &amp; Trading what you're seeing for us is the Exchange Traded Instruments unit has been slower in particular impacted by recoveries.
So if you took recoveries out which as you know is other people's revenues that we're forced to account within our own you'd see a stronger performance in Sales &amp; Trading.
It will pick up.
Fixed income has been improving for us.
Commodities &amp; Energy has been growing strongly.
And on the transaction side FX volumes have been good.
On the information terminal side there's slow progress but I do expect that will improve.
And that final question will come from the line of Jonathan Helliwell with Berenberg.
Just specifically going back to that organic growth question in Markets.
The 1% figure you're giving us or the 2% excluding recoveries you said was mainly driven by change of ownership at Tradeweb.
Can you just remind us the broad shape [ph] of what you did there and in particular whether you've treated a change in consolidation of Tradeweb as organic growth? No we did not.
That was in -- core Tradeweb actually grew 9% without change in ownership.
Right.
And the organic figure 1% that you gave us is driven by the 9% core growth not by the change of ownership.
Absolutely yes.
Okay.
That will conclude our call.
We'd like to thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference call will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time today through May 5 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing (800)475-6701 and entering the access code of 200869.
International participants may dial (320)365-3844.
And that does conclude your conference for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our second quarter 2011 results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Tom Glocer who will be followed by our CFO Bob Daleo.
Following Tom's and Bob's presentations we'll open the call for questions.
Please limit yourself to one question so we can get to as many as possible.
Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period on period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Let me point out that the second quarter results are for ongoing businesses and therefore exclude the Healthcare business which we announced on June 6 that we plan to divest.
Earlier this month we posted on our website the restated financials for ongoing businesses for 2008 2009 2010 quarterly and the first quarter of 2011.
Today's results should be measured against these financials.
The planned divestiture of the Healthcare business and several other small disposals had a $0.02 dilutive impact on adjusted EPS in the quarter.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations department.
It's now my pleasure to introduce the CEO of Thomson Reuters Tom Glocer.
Thank you Frank and thank you all for joining us.
Typically when I speak to you each quarter I begin with the review of in-period performance using a slide like this.
Today I want to do things a little bit differently.
The numbers themselves are pretty good but they don't tell the whole story.
So rather than just summarizing our results I'll leave that to Bob Daleo and I'll focus instead on the Markets division reorganization that we announced last week.
So last Friday I announced a set of organizational changes intended to close the chapter on the Reuters integration and best position us for growth in our financial services businesses.
These changes will simplify the business enhance sales effectiveness and allow us to call on the resources and talents of the entire company to serve our customers.
To move with the urgency I felt was needed I also changed our various members of the senior management team including Devin Wenig.
Our financial business will now be comprised of 2 operating units Financial Professionals &amp; Marketplaces and Enterprise Solutions reflecting our 2-platform strategy Eikon and Elektron respectively.
Financial Professionals &amp; Marketplaces will focus on services for professionals delivered to screens combining the former Sales &amp; Trading and Investment &amp; Advisory units and includes our trading marketplaces the FX Dealing ones and Tradeweb.
This unit will be led by Shanker Ramamurthy who joined the company earlier this year and has been running Sales &amp; Trading.
Enterprise Solutions will focus on services and infrastructure for financial firms as a whole continuing and expanding the current Enterprise unit and will continue to be managed by John Robson.
This structure will enable us to focus on our core strengths of content infrastructure trading communities distribution and joined-up workflow solutions.
Eikon remains our flagship desktop offering but it will be sold as part of an integrated strategy.
These changes not only simplify the Markets organization but also reflect how the financial markets are evolving and reconfiguring themselves becoming really a partnership of man and machine serving customers with the greatest capital efficiency possible.
This is something we need to stay out in front of and drive.
So why did we restructure the Markets division? It's no secret that I've been disappointed with the slow growth in Markets.
I realized that the growth trajectory was not as strong as it needed to be nor was the customer experience universally as favorable as it should be.
Much of the underperformance resulted from a poorly executed sales reorganization in Markets at the end of last year.
We've now changed the leadership in Sales and a detailed fix is already underway.
In addition I felt that we were not leveraging the strength of the entire financial business in the development and marketing of Eikon.
Again there is new leadership in place and a robust development plan.
Much of this work was actually already underway but when I saw the results were going to be slower we swung more quickly into action.
I am disappointed in the overall performance of the Markets division but these week results overall masks some underlying positive trends built on our core strengths.
So for example our Enterprise business which is now over $1.2 billion in annual revenues grew 10% in Q2 and is an increasingly important part of the Thomson Reuters market story.
Our trading marketplaces business also grew 10% and our Commodities &amp; Energy and Asia businesses grew 5% each.
Before I discuss what steps we're taking to improve performance let me say that I view my role as one of galvanizing and leading a strong Markets management team.
This is not an interim arrangement.
This is core to my performance as CEO of all of Thomson Reuters.
In order to accomplish this there are several changes the management team and I have already begun to implement.
First we've simplified the business structure.
Second we're driving an accountable performance culture and nothing speaks more loudly to this than last week's changes themselves.
Third we've begun to realign the sales force with markets customers and products.
Fourth we're drawing in proven managers and resources from other parts of the company such as Professional to support our efforts.
And last we will continue implementation of a 2-platform strategy Eikon and Elektron which I'm confident will enable us to drive growth and improve efficiency.
These changes are all about performance putting proven managers into clear and accountable roles speeding decision-making and improving collaboration all of which together makes me confident that we'll take the company to the next level of performance.
And with that let me now turn it over to Bob Daleo who'll review the second quarter results with you.
Thank you Tom.
And good morning and good afternoon to everyone.
As in prior quarters I will speak to revenue growth before currency.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In addition for consistency and comparability with our previously reported results I'm going to be discussing today only results on an ongoing basis which exclude all of our [indiscernible] announced to date including the recently announced Healthcare business.
For the consolidated businesses revenues in the second quarter up 4% versus the prior year 3% of that benefit coming from acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 26% and the underlying operating profit was up 17% in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA growth and underlying operating profit across both divisions were due to flow-through from higher revenues integration savings timing benefits in Markets and the benefits of currency.
The underlying operating profit margin expanded 140 basis points.
Now moving on to the Professional division.
As we had previously announced the divestiture of the healthcare unit results in a change within the Professional division.
The Intellectual Property business has been moved from the Legal segment and combined with our Science business into a single operating unit named IP &amp; Science.
We'll now be reporting results within Legal for -- we'll be reporting results within Professional for Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science.
And within Legal we will focus on 3 segments which are shown here on the slide.
US Law Firm Solutions which capture the results for businesses that sell into law firms such as Westlaw FindLaw and Elite.
The second is Corporate Government &amp; Academic and Risk &amp; Compliance which serve the general counsel market key government customers and law schools and the GRC unit that services customers in a rapidly changing regulatory environments throughout the world.
And lastly is our global businesses which include our Legal businesses in some of the fastest-growing markets across the world.
Now as you can see from this chart growth has accelerated as Professional markets recover and we realized the benefits of the investments we made over the past 2 years.
The second quarter marked the highest growth rate for Professional division since the third quarter of 2008.
Revenue growth trends have been strong and have been driven by 3 primary factors.
First growth in the launch of new product platforms such as WestlawNext and the ONESOURCE global tax workstation.
We've never had a more advanced set of products delivered to our customers.
Second the Legal services markets continued to improve but at a slower pace than we would like to see.
Legal demand is up especially at small firms and in the corporate general counsel's office.
Demand for client development services continues to grow.
And law firms are now investing in their financial and practice management systems to improve efficiencies.
We continue to see good acceptance of WestlawNext which is offsetting downward pressure in the core legal research market especially among large law firms.
So our products are targeted the right markets and we are capturing that growth.
And third acquisitions in global expansion have contributed to an acceleration of growth.
Last year the Professional division entered Brazil through the acquisition of Revista dos Tribunais.
And this year we launched Revista Online the first online legal research service in Brazil a market with over 600 000 attorneys.
We also made several additional acquisitions in legal and tax accounting space.
The acquisitions of Complinet and World-Check allow us to further expand our presence in the rapidly growing Governance Risk &amp; Compliance market where we will soon have a $200 million business.
So overall we expect these trends will continue to the second half of this year.
Now as noted on that previous slide the Professional divisions recorded 8% revenue growth in the quarter of which half was organic and half was acquisitions.
And this has been driven by solid performance from each of the 3 business units.
EBITDA increased 11% compared to the prior year and the corresponding margin was up with 35% up 10 basis points.
Operating profit was up 10% compared to the prior year and the margin was flat at 26.3% but this also reflects absorbing 140 basis points of margin dilution from the acquisitions that I mentioned.
Now I'll discuss the results in the segments within Professional.
Legal's second quarter revenues were up 9% 3% on an organic basis with the balance coming from acquisitions.
Law Firm Solutions revenue which includes Business of Law print and core legal research grew 2% 1% organic driven by FindLaw and Elite which were up a combined 12% partly offset by a 2% decline in revenues from U.S.
law firms.
Corporate Government &amp; Academic and Risk &amp; Compliance grew 16% of which 5% was organic.
Now our global businesses were up 19% 5% organic with strong growth in Latin America and Canada.
Revista Online continues to do very well with sales just starting to ramp up.
We already have over 100 customers and over 1 500 active users.
EBITDA increased 9% for the division compared to the prior year and the corresponding margin was 37.2% down 50 basis points.
Operating profit increased 7% from revenue flow-through and savings from efficiency initiatives.
The margins declined 90 basis points to 28% due to acquisitional dilution and product mix.
Tax &amp; Accounting had a very strong second quarter from the top line to the bottom line.
Revenues in the quarter grew 10% of which 7% was organic and this was driven by the Professional tax business related to electronic filing of tax returns strong growth in income tax provisions and indirect tax products and check point.
Tax &amp; Accounting continues to show strong EBITDA growth up 29% the fourth conservative quarter of double-digit growth.
Higher revenues and effective cost management led the increase.
Operating profit increased 43% and the associated margin was up 430 basis points to 19.8% benefiting from revenue growth efficiency initiatives and the fall off of amortization software associated with acquired businesses over the past 3 years.
This business is tracking exactly what we told you it would be doing a year ago.
Now our newly formed IP &amp; Science unit is the most global business in Professional with over 30% of its $800 million of revenues and 70% of its employees outside North America.
IP &amp; Science has strong relationship with the world's leading corporations universities law firms and governments.
We serve over 5 000 academic research institutions.
In the corporate market we have over 1 800 pharma and biotech customers 12 000 patent and trademark customers and serve over 10 000 law firms.
We operate an attractive business model with 95% of revenues being electronic software services 70% of this is recurring.
The business is also highly profitable with a 33% EBITDA margin and a 27% operating margin profit margin as was recorded in 2010.
IP &amp; Science is a large global market that is growing particularly in the RDEs.
The number of researchers grew 25% since 2002 while new patent filings grew at an average rate of 5% globally over the past 5 years.
We believe there is significant opportunities to accelerate growth through geographic expansion cross-sell opportunities expansion into adjacent markets and in general putting a commercial scheme on what has heretofore been a largely academic business with very strong products and services.
And we are excited about the prospects for this unit.
Now turning to the financial results for IP &amp; Science.
Revenues grew 4% in the quarter half of which was organic.
Growth was driven by Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research revenues which were up 5% led by the Web of Knowledge subscriptions and the Life Sciences business which were up 11% due to strong demands for biology and disease analytic products.
IP Solutions was up 2% driven by growth in patents and services.
Now EBITDA increased 1% compared to the prior period and the margin was 33.6% which was down 190 basis points.
Likewise operating profit was up only 2% and the corresponding margin declined to 27%.
The decline in both EBITDA and operating margins was primarily due to product investments related to the launch of the Web of Knowledge 5.0 educational costs to expand our important Chinese patent database and technology costs related to the new product -- new pharma product which will be launched this quarter.
Now before I turn to the Markets division results let me just spend a moment on the professional legal strategy in Latin America.
A region that we believe has significant potential as professional markets develop in line with their economies and where we have made several acquisitions over the past 18 months.
This is a region where our revenues in 2009 were less than $35 million and by the end of this year we expect they will exceed $130 million.
Professional division has been focusing on growing our footprint in Latin America.
The relative economic strength of Brazil and the rest of Latin America contrast with the low economic growth in developed economies.
These countries are quite attractive given that they have a large and growing professional class the professional markets themselves are already developed there is a low level of spend for professional as compared to U.S.
and European Markets and these professional's build at similar rates as these more developed markets.
The firms have money to spend on new electronic products and services and these markets are predominantly print-based.
So we've been capitalizing on this opportunity with the acquisition last year of the largest legal publisher in Brazil as I noted Revista dos Tribunais and last month we acquired Mastersaf one of the leading tax and accounting firms also in Brazil.
We will soon integrate Mastersaf's tax and accounting content with Revista's tax-related content and we'll launch a new robust Tax &amp; Accounting service on our global ONESOURCE platform.
So we believe we have the opportunity to quickly develop high-end online solutions by leveraging our content technology and infrastructure across the region which will lead to a much larger and faster growing set of businesses.
Now I'd like to turn to the Markets division.
In the second quarter Markets division revenues grew 1% compared to a 3% decline in the prior year.
Excluding recoveries revenues grew 2%.
Growth was driven by a 1% increase in recurring revenues which account for about 77% of the division's revenues.
Transactions and outright revenues grew 7% and 19% respectively more than offsetting a 60% decline in recoveries.
EBITDA was up 25% and the margin increased almost 400 basis points from the prior period to 28.1%.
The segment's operating profits in the quarter grew 24% and the margin was up 280 basis points from the prior period to 20.5%.
There were benefits from currency and expense timing during the quarter and believe this is the high watermark for both EBITDA and operating profit margins for the year for the division.
Now I'll return to the results for the individual segments.
Sales &amp; Trading revenues were up 1% driven by the growth of Tradeweb related to the company's increased ownership in the business and Tradeweb's core organic growth of 7%.
Revenue growth was partly offset by a 10% decline in recoveries.
Excluding recoveries Sales &amp; Trading revenues were up 4%.
The Commodities &amp; Energy segment was up 5% primarily due to the acquisition of Point Carbon as the Treasury business was flat while Exchange Traded Instruments declined 7%.
Planned shutdowns of low-margin products accounted for about half of this decline and the continued decline in recoveries accounted for about most of the balance.
Now Eikon sales are now at 28 000 desktops.
This is up 45% from the first quarter's 19 000.
The 25 000 migrations represent about 15% of our premium desktops.
The length of time -- I should point out that the length of time from purchase to activation varies and today we have approximately 6 000 active users.
New sales can be up and running i as few as 10 days as we process the order install the product and train the end-user.
For large customers the timetable can be several months as we coordinate communication lines and installation plans with the clients' rollout schedules train the end users build compliance rules and transfer the data and models.
We are continuing to work on streamlining this process.
Investment &amp; Advisory revenues declined 2% with Corporate Investment Banking and Wealth Management revenues all up.
However Investment revenues declined 8%.
Decline was driven by the U.S.
business with the European business flat and the Asian business returning to consistent sales growth.
Enterprise continued to perform very well growing 10% in the quarter which is all organic driven by a continued strong customer demand for its innovative data distribution platform.
Eikon now has 12 hosting centers around the world.
Real Time Solutions grew 9% and Enterprise Content was up 20% due to continued strong demand for both realtime data feeds and pricing and reference data.
And finally Media's revenues declined by 1% in the quarter.
Now moving on to the consolidated results.
Underlying profit in the second quarter was $669 million as noted on this chart.
And that the several adjustments which were reflected on the slide the net result is $429 million of adjusted earnings or $0.51 per diluted share.
That's an increase of $0.10 per share versus the year ago.
The increase was largely attributable to the higher underlying operating profit and lower integration costs.
Currency accounted for about $0.03 of this increase.
A complete reconciliation from net income to adjusted earnings is available in the press release issued this morning.
Now turning to free cash flow.
Year to date we reported free cash flow that's $573 million.
Underlying free cash flow which removes $140 million of integration-related cash spending is $713 million.
Reported free cash flow declined by $64 million versus the prior year primarily due to unfavorable working capital which is timing-related as we have discussed in the fourth quarter earnings call.
For the full year we expect to generate strong levels of free cash flow.
Let me also mention while not including our free cash flow we're also working closely to complete the disposal we previously announced.
They're on track to close by the end of this year.
We expect the sales we announced this year to generate net after-tax proceeds in excess of $2 billion.
As we move through the year we will continue to consider the best use of proceeds including reinvesting our business and possible share repurchases.
And let me remind you that we have in place a 15-million share Normal Course Issuer Bid facility that we renewed in May of this year and it is fully available.
As Tom mentioned earlier we have affirmed our outlook for our expected performance this year before any currency impact.
Year to date our revenues are up 4%.
For the full year we continue to expect revenues to be in the mid-single-digit range.
Year to date adjusted EBITDA margin was up 25% -- was 25.5%.
And we're on track to achieve a 300 basis point plus increase over from last year's margin.
Our year-to-date underlying operating margin was 19.1%.
Again we believe we are on track to achieve 100 basis point plus increase from 2010's operating margin.
And we continue to expect a strong EBITDA growth.
This year will contribute to the 20% to 25% growth in reported free cash flow.
So just to wrap as we look at the second half of the year we are focused on executing the action plan that Tom discussed accelerating revenue growth in the Markets division and across the company and driving efficiencies across the entire organization.
Now let me turn it back over to Frank for Q&amp;A.
Thanks very much Bob.
Okay we'd like to open the call for questions so if we could have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC.
LLC</strong> Just focusing in Tom on obviously the Markets performance 0% organic revenue growth versus 1% last quarter.
Great detail in terms of the plan going forward.
Just wondering if you could comment somewhat on -- do we take a couple of steps back before moving forward with respect to organic revenue growth? Or are you looking at kind of bumping along with at some point acceleration in 2012? Sure.
I think there are 3 factors at work here.
So the first one is that whenever you do this level of transformation there is some period of time where people are trying to get their sea legs.
So we expect and have factored into our plans some level of disruption that is mitigated also in part by a re-energy on the new team to do a whole bunch of things and take the business forward so that's factor one.
Factor two is obviously the overall health of the financial services Markets.
And we're certainly heading the ship into a bit more of the way of headwinds given the cost-cutting posture certainly on the sell side.
So three when I put it all together what it looks like to me is it may take us a quarter or so to get the thing really revving again.
But I would expect by the fourth quarter that you would see a pickup in organic revenue absent Greece defaults.
The U.S.
decides it's not going to deal with the debt ceiling et cetera.
Our next question comes from the line of Suzanne Stein from Morgan Stanley.
Can you just talk a little more about your timeframe for turning around the Markets business? And Tom I just want to make sure that I understood that this is not an interim step for you as far as running Markets.
Is that meant to be a permanent change? Well you know permanent is a long time right? I think I'm the ninth -- was the ninth Chief Executive in 160 years at Reuters before.
But yes this is -- earlier in the year we didn't talk a huge amount about it but Jim Smith flattened out the organizational structure in the businesses that comprise the Professional unit took additional direct reports.
And as you can see in the results not only didn't miss a beat but accelerated performance and really unleashed the creativity and capabilities of some very strong talents in the Professional division.
So I had planned in any case probably not until next year to mirror that across the entire company in part because some of the opportunities we have require us to work more across different units right? When I saw -- when Bob and I looked at the growth trajectory in Markets and saw that we had hit an air pocket there for a variety of reasons I basically accelerated the plan.
So it's permanently the way we're going to run more as a integrated operating company and less as sort of 2 monolithic divisions.
And in terms of your first question about the timeframe I've got a 30 a 90 and a 1-year plus plan and there are things that we've already got done including obviously the reorganization getting people in the top team.
There's a 30-day plan around the sales execution the real transmission between the business the product groups and sales that we're quite excited about.
There's a 90-day plan which is more around sort of repositioning the product strategy making greater use of our incredible resources in Enterprise et cetera.
And then there's a longer-term plan right? The 1-year plus which is more about the development plan forward for the 2 platforms and continuing that strategy.
So that's -- I'm triaging it into short medium and long-term and we've got good plans for each.
Okay.
And if I could just follow up what are your expectations for Eikon adoption for the rest of the year? And can you update us on your plans for pricing of Eikon going forward? Right now we're not making any change in the pricing of Eikon.
I think we have that right.
By the way I think the 2-platform strategy is dead on.
In fact so good that we've organized the firm to be as simple and straightforward as the platforms it takes to market.
In terms of adoption Eikon will continue to sell.
It's met a really good customer reaction.
So I think you'll see a moderate continuation of the same pattern.
We are taking a look at the development roadmap from here and we may re-prioritize some development over others.
So I would look for a continuation of the trend that Bob mentioned more sales and more installations.
But I'll be back probably around the third quarter with more to say about how Eikon fits into our entire strategy.
Our next question comes from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Two questions on the cost side.
When you took the $39 million charge in Q1 I think you indicated there could be some spillover and a little bit more of that in Q2.
I'm wondering if you can clarify if that was buried in the Professional division margins this quarter? And on the Markets side good detail on the FX impact to margins in the quarter in your release.
But these other one-time or I don't know if they're were one-time or just timing benefits you talked about within Markets.
Can you quantify those at all and talk about what they are? Well first of all in terms of the one-off impacts -- well let me talk about the -- what we had last quarter Vince was a charge for restructuring and a large bulk of that was really in Markets it wasn't in Professional.
And in the quarter we had about another $7 million or $8 million of that reflected in there.
We didn't discuss it so that kind of goes the other way.
In terms of some of these benefits they're just -- you accrue certain things throughout the year and as you -- certain costs like compensation and benefits and things.
And as the year progresses you see that the costs are changing so you modify them.
And in the quarter we have some benefit relative to that.
Those are the biggest items.
There wasn't anything more to that.
I think that the savings that you're seeing and the performance in the margin of Markets.
This really had to do with the cost savings that have occurred in the implementation of the integration.
And so those are real.
But the timing benefits bother me.
Can you give us any sense -- I mean is it closer to $10 million or closer to $50 million? I'd say it was about $20 million or $25 million -- I think was the number.
Our next question comes from the line of Colin Tennant with Nomura.
I had a question again turning back to Markets.
Tom you mentioned that one of the issues that you encountered was that the customer experience.
I wondered if you could expand a little on that.
Were you talking about the service they were getting from sales force structure or is that a product issue? And just following on from that as this transformation or reorganization takes place what sort of KPI should we be looking for in terms of -- in order to sort of track how it's actually progressing? Good questions Colin.
In my view it's very difficult to piece apart and probably should be product from service because they're intended to be deeply integrated.
But I do believe that the complexity in the Markets organization in particular post the last year's transformation of the sales force resulted in a fair amount of client disruption changing established account relationships and didn't put our best foot forward in terms of service.
So the product itself certainly in terms of Eikon the data we have show people really like the product.
They find it easier to use.
They can find our data.
We are beginning to be able to harvest rich-usage data from the product itself rather than sort of separately always with survey monkeys.
And that will lead to and enhanced customer experience.
So I wasn't referencing anything more than just -- I know we can do better both with the product as it is today and as the product evolves.
In terms of KPIs the challenging thing is to me the most relevant issue will be going forward what is our relative share of wallet whatever that wallet will be.
And I think we can do a lot to enhance the competitiveness the differentiation and the go-to market around not just Eikon but the entire product line in the Markets division.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Tom maybe you could talk a little bit just about the development plan in Eikon and the timing there in terms of major new functionality to address for example I&amp;A which seems to have sort of moved around? First the timing.
The second part of that is there any additional investment that we're going to have to make to get there? And I guess the final one that's popped out of all of the earlier questions really is is there any new restructuring charges related to the realignments -- to the reorganizations that have taken place or are taking place? Okay I'll let Bob discuss the cost side on that.
There are certainly new savings coming both from the number the seniority and the follow-on on the changes in Markets from the consolidation of the 2 business units.
In terms of the Eikon development path and extra effort we are not adding to the development budgets because actually we think they are full as is.
We are looking to re-prioritize or change what we're spending on and when.
Now in terms of the specifics of the roadmap there is a significant release coming out some time late third quarter on Eikon.
There is additional content functionality and some of the underlying capabilities that will support an investment management product.
But as I said already at the first quarter and in a couple of public appearances and conferences since I don't expect and therefore you should not expect to have a all-singing and all-dancing investment management release until well into 2012.
You will see increasing amounts of content and functionality.
Eikon is a good product today getting better and better.
But for the sort of complete differentiation of a IM product it's a ways off still.
And Paul in terms of -- I think Tom mentioned about the additional investment we don't think we need to make any more than what that we're currently anticipating in the business.
In terms of the charges any reorganization obviously has charges to it.
On the greater scheme of things they wouldn't be significant.
And we're still putting together that -- my guess would be in the range of $25 million to $50 million and we intend to include them in our operations.
So we'll be more clear about that when we get to the third quarter when we have a better understanding.
But relative to the things we've done in the past it's not material.
This is more about realigning and streamlining and it's about huge costs.
We will see some savings obviously but that was not the primary driver in making these changes.
Our next question comes from the line of Thomas Singlehurst with Citigroup.
I wanted to go -- I mean almost go back to the beginning.
And I apologize if it's going over than we -- if it's been asked a couple of times.
But you mentioned right at the beginning that you've seen a bit of a pocket of -- a pocket in terms of -- air pocket in terms of growth which now turned out to being a flat 2Q relative to plus 1 in the first quarter.
You said that in third that there'd be a negative 3Q followed by the 2011 4Q on the actions.
I started to try and balance what is either -- essentially what appears to be quite a significant change in faculty and management with what is ultimately a relatively small change in the business dynamics.
Just trying to work out where the -- absent this change there would've been a much much worse revenue profile or whether you're just coming and then already big change shift of levity? I understand the question Tom.
And it's one that not only as a management team we've talked about but as a board we obviously gave considerable attention to.
And it's the one of when do you pull the trigger on something? How long do you wait? It did not pass our attention that the actual performance in Markets the improvement you see in -- on the EBITDA line on the margin lines are very good.
My view of the world is when you come to a conclusion about that something needs to be done go fast and do it completely.
Don't sort of drag it out in various steps.
So could we have waited longer? Sure.
Would it have created a terrible financial hole? I don't think so.
But once I was really clear that I thought higher performance lays from making changes it didn't seem right to just sit with the existing plan.
And others would say Tom could you have moved 90 days earlier? Weren't these trends apparent? And we balance all those factors and I think that bias was towards early and complete action.
But one could quibble with 3 months on either side I suppose.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Karimzad from Goldman Sachs.
On the product side here -- I know that's a favorite place for you Tom to think about but this is not apples to oranges to compare a consumer-based product versus something for professionals.
But it is something we're seeing increasing over time which is the consumer-based products are becoming more powerful and much easier to use than they were in the past.
And Eikon certainly is a major improvement over the products you had before but we'll take as an example for -- with Google Finance it's much easier to do basic charting functions realtime pricing or perhaps more importantly I can pull up on my iPhone and get realtime quotes for my portfolio without any log-ins without any sort of entering codes or anything like that.
Now there's a lot of great new functionality in Eikon but I'm wondering how flexible are you with that in bringing the ease-of-use up another level from where you have today? And how quickly can you get there? Well it's amusing or I would say ironic that you mentioned Global Finance which does have some very nice capabilities because actually the person who is now 100% in charge of Eikon development Philip Brittan who's joined the firm recently his last job was actually running Google Finance.
So he understands both the form factor and the premium that exists for making it simple and attractive at the front end and putting the complexity back into the sophistication of essentially the algorithms that allow for simple search simple interface et cetera.
Most of these are inherent in your comment is another very good question we think about a lot which is you can get a free quote in realtime as a consumer on a variety of devices so why doesn't everybody just trade the markets off of their iPhone in Google Finance? And obviously you know the answer to that.
But the day you can do sort of complete depth of book when on your iPhone you can look at not only the last price of the integrated page system but you can look at the vast Triax and internalization pool in your own firm when you could do transaction cost analysis when you can do a much deeper set of functionality and you can do it in very low latency.
I'd love to trade all day against somebody who's on the other side of an iPhone just getting a realtime quote.
So you're right there is a growing level of sophistication and quality in consumer land but you don't have much further to go than the Goldman trading floor to see how the professional world continues to create a level of increased differentiation and execution above that.
And our job is to stay right in lock step with in this case your equity desk.
Fair enough.
And just to follow on that I guess a little bit.
One of the great strengths of Bloomberg obviously is the all-in-one package they have and sophistication that provides which also comes in an all-in-one price which if you step back for a second actually may be a bit of a weakness because in a situation like that it's inherent that you're effectively having lighter users subsidize the cost and expense for the heavier users who're using all the features.
To what extent do you have any intelligence or telemetry based on your usage that there may be folks who are relatively light users of Bloomberg that could be an opportunity to I won't say pick off but at least migrate to the extent that you have something you can offer at lower price? Well we don't have any particular telemetry there but we do have the very direct human feedback.
There's a large reservoir of users.
First of all Bloomberg is an excellent organization it's an excellent product and there's plenty of room -- I don't mind the market at all where there's an excellent competitor at a premium price or even a couple of good competitors.
It's good for customers and drives us to ever greater levels of excellence.
I think there is an opportunity not only vis-à-vis Bloomberg but others to win share.
The way in which we will do that is not only just a desktop versus desktop by terminal by terminal but bringing the whole range of capabilities of this organization including trading platforms including the Enterprise offer.
So we didn't talk about it because I'm focused mostly on the reorganization.
But deep in the Markets numbers we have some very good success on Eikon and also 3000 Xtra in embedding Tradeweb fixed income capabilities.
Really the first time we've begun to see the traction I talked about is possible some years ago.
And so I'm confident that strategy that isn't only just terminal versus terminal but where we line up with the full strength of the organization now made more easy to tap through the reorg.
You'll see enhanced sales performance you'll see a higher quality offer.
Our next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Could you talk a bit more about the sale structure changes that you're making in the Markets segment? And then separately if you could discuss expectations for margins in the Legal segment in the second half of the year.
Okay.
I'm going to again give Bob the drive margin one but he can help me on the sales side too.
There are really 3 things we're doing.
One is the people the talent.
We put one of our most talented aggressive managers in place to run the sales organization.
Two is the sort of simplification of the structure itself and its relationship to the product and business group.
So I'm not going to bore you with a lot of detail.
But Markets ran with 4 divisions 3 of them in finance and there were 5 segments in the sales force which gave you call it a 15 a box grid.
I think we can run in much simpler structure and that's what we're putting in place.
So one is people two is organization and the number of handoffs and three really is the work on the product line itself and the go-to-market strategy which I was just talking to Brian about a bit which is how do we bring what used to be reserved for our biggest accounts the sort of all-in Enterprise agreement.
How do we in effect privatize that and bring that to the rest of the offer? So that we're going in with more than just lining up itty-bitty against every competitor? Now Bob you've got the [indiscernible]? Yes.
I think that what we should see over second half of the year as it tracks next year -- last year rather should be a fairly consistent performance where we're seeing the first half meaning that you'll see some comparative margin erosion which is primarily related to the impact of acquisition dilution.
So I think if you look at the second half of this year if you look at that and look at the comparisons to where we are this year year to date versus last year probably a pretty good guide right now.
That's primarily what I would say would be -- the perspective should be longer-term.
And is it reasonable to think as we look into next year that once those acquisitions run off you should be able to get margin expansion in the Legal segment? Well there's no doubt that over time the margin will improve in Legal.
Will it ever get back to where they were at the high watermark which was about 33% like in 2008? We've said we don't think so.
I don't think they have to because we're seeing -- as long as we continue to accelerate growth and drive the profitability of the business you have to remember that -- and overall remember we're not -- measuring Legal of course.
And in Legal we've had this shift in core Legal research and what's going on there in terms of declining or rather slowdown in growth and that's why we have all these other -- Jim and his team have these tremendous growth initiatives.
So when we think about the performance of Legal you have to think about in comparison to the performance of Professional in a whole.
And as we talked about we've just seen the Tax &amp; Accounting business will continue to see significant margin accretion.
We have a very good performance in IP &amp; Sciences.
So across the board we would expect that even though Legal on a comparative basis is unfavorable versus the prior year that Professional as a whole will be fairly close to being flat year-to-year.
And that includes covering the acquisitions that they've made in Legal and other segments.
So that's the way we look at the business.
You have to understand that the core Legal business has a higher incremental margin.
Our growth is coming from very very good products and margins that most of other people would kill for but not up to that same level.
So we're going through a bit of a transition.
And as we kind of move to different sweet spots for growth -- and like I said we think Professional will be flat this year and we think that their scope for improvement in Professional margin in the years ahead.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Huang from UBS.
I just want to quickly go back to your earlier comment on Wall Street layoffs.
Tom with these layoffs back in the headlines I wanted to get your view on the impact to your business again.
Do you -- specifically do you expect to see the same magnitude of impact to your Markets business that we had in 2009 2010.
Since I guess the market's implying that I'm wondering if we're missing anything.
And then just quickly on the Legal side we see the industry recover and litigation activities continue to accelerate and -- but you guys mentioned that the improvement from your business is slower than expected.
So I was wondering if you could clarify -- maybe provide some additional color on why the industry recovery isn't translating to a stronger organic revenue growth for Legal? Is it because of competitive pressure particularly amongst the larger law firms? Okay.
We'll -- Bob and I will split it between us on it.
So let me start with the Markets question.
2009 2010 was a near-death experience for the Markets in general and an actual death experience for obviously several very large firms.
And I think we came through that well that the focus that we had by having 2 separate large divisions allowed us to focus on an integration take a lot of costs out of the business all of that for the good.
Going forward there are headwinds obviously within UBS itself you know more than the rest of us.
But I would characterize that as sort of retrenching a bit off of an expansion that got ahead and expected -- wasn't foreseeing U.S.
debt issues  and downgrade -- wasn't foreseeing how long it's taking to play out the European sovereign credit crisis.
So it will likely result in a reduction in headcount.
But as you see in the results of our Enterprise and our Trading markets those are growing strongly.
So that trend of replacing human beings with machines has always been favorable to our Enterprise business and I expect that to continue.
But yes I do think the headcount-related growth is going to be dampened and we'll just have to see how that plays out through the rest of the year what it looks like when people come back to their desks in September in particular in Europe.
On the Legal question I'll pass it over to Bob for specifics but I think you have to look at the overall strategy that Jim Smith and Bob and I have focused on there which is not to just sort of milk one part of a business but to actively invest and seek growth and then -- and this is what I think Jim deserves a huge amount of credit for as Bob just mentioned in his last answer absorb the dilution that comes from the amortization of these acquisitions by achieving incremental efficiencies in the business.
That is really walking and chewing gum at the same time.
And so in Legal the situation is they are finding areas of growth to grow at what looks at -- I did a quick read across competitors from competitors who reported 3 times plus the growth rate of the other established players in that market.
Bob? And as we think about the Legal marketplace more broadly there has been -- well we perceive as a fundamental shift in the relationship between law firms and their clients.
And in particular that has resulted in significant reduction particularly among large law firms of what I'd call their pricing power.
And so as a consequence they're very careful on how they spend and core legal research is a cost like any other and they manage that very carefully.
And so for our business and for our competitors as well -- where we have seen declines it's not been in the core.
Our core subscriptions to Westlaw continue to grow albeit very slowly but that's off the power of WestlawNext.
It is in ancillary spending that they have really cut back tremendously and continue to do so.
That would be additional volume additional searches of beyond what their particular contracts says.
And in that approach as Tom mentioned what we have done what Jim and his team have done really focused on where has that power shifted to.
It shifted to the Corporate General Counsel.
And acquisitions like Serengeti and other things that we're doing really now recognize that this is where the growth opportunities are.
And so the legal marketplace is still a vibrant market.
It's the power and -- d purchasing power and dynamics of it have shifted a bit and we've shifted our business footprint accordingly in focus.
So for us core legal research is an important fundamental part of the business but it is not a significant growth factor going forward because we have identified and made investments in other opportunities which will deliver for us similar kind of growth and over the longer term for the specialty group as a whole similar kind of margins.
So it's what we're expected to right to manage the shifts and dynamics in our markets by making the right kind of investments appropriately.
And so that's where we stand today.
And I think that the performance that you see in the quarter is reflective of a longer-term trend that you will see as we go to other growth sources within what is still a very large and robust market and seek out those opportunities to grow.
Our next question will come from the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Two questions.
One on the Markets group Tom you alluded to the fact that the work that Jim Smith has done in Professional is one of the templates you're following if I can put it that way.
But one of the things that happened there is as you've alluded to all call is there have been some strategic acquisitions that are driving that.
So can you talk about acquisitions related to this reorg? Are you setting us up for potential acquisitions in Markets? And the second question relates to divestitures and the buyback.
Can you give us a little more clarity Bob on timing of when you think you'll close these divestitures? And if you were to pursue a buyback are you able to execute on that before you get the cash in? Okay.
Let me hit the first one and make the transition to Bob.
I'm really honestly not trying to set you or anyone else up with any change in the acquisition agenda.
Professional has done a very good job of using all 3 levers that I think any business should organic development so look at Westlaw look at ONESOURCE and Tax &amp; Accounting partnering as well as acquisition.
Markets itself obviously had -- did an enormous acquisition if you consider the Reuters one itself and has made some smaller capability acquisitions -- a very good acquisition of a business in the carbon area Point Carbon last year.
So I'm not signaling that we're going to go and sort of fix Markets with acquisition.
The fix in Markets really is an organic set of fixes organizational talent in the way we work.
However we certainly are open to and we look at opportunities to partner and to acquire in Markets.
And I wouldn't hesitate to do that if we saw the sort of attractive fold-in acquisitions that we've been able to do in Legal.
Bob mentioned the Serengeti acquisition Pangaea3 also the legal process outsourcing acquisition helps reposition us more quickly towards the general counsel then you probably could get to if you were just doing purely an organic build but there's organic build there as well.
I'll turn it over to Bob read the timing of the proceeds but let me just say about buyback in general.
We always look as a matter of capital discipline at what is the hurdle rate we think we can achieve in an organic investment in a acquisition and we compare that with what would an investment in buying back around own shares be.
And I naturally would feel that way I suppose but I feel very good about our business and we have capacity.
We're just not going to signal exactly when you're going to see us where in the market.
Bob do you want to elaborate on that? Yes sure.
First of all Tim to answer your question we would expect to complete all these divestitures by the end of this year sometime in the fourth quarter.
And you'll also note Tim that we -- our capital strategy is an integral part of how we run the business.
And so we have built the capability and capacity of the business to drive any actions that we need.
And so these are long-term divestitures we're making.
It doesn't impact our ability to enter the market.
We have a strong capacity today.
We have lines of credit.
We have every capability and we are generating significant cash.
So that will not -- we are not determining whether we do a buyback based upon whether we have the cash from these disposals and not length.
They're more determined based upon as Tom said other opportunities internally and how we view the value of our stock vis-a-vis our own internal perceptions of the value so we can act any time we want.
Operator we'd like to take one final call.
That will be from the line of Claudio Aspesi with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> One question going back to Legal.
Reed Elsevier this morning effectively seemed to concede that the WestlawNext's gaining market share or driving market share gains for your business.
But the implication of how they formulated this concession was that fundamentally it was driven by a significant marketing and product investment and that that could be reversed once their products have rolled out.
I would like to know what steps are you taking if any to make sure that you don't have to seed back market share once the new Lexis tools are rolled out as well? Good question Claudio.
Well it's interesting that they're now -- I didn't obviously hear their call and I haven't seen the information other than just most snapshot revenue numbers which look like something like minus one to me pre-FX.
We are continuing to invest behind and enhance WestlawNext continuing the migration itself.
I think you can take as a given 2 years ago when we could have just kept on milking the old Westlaw and when obviously the world and our results even in Legal were going backwards we poured the oil on the fire.
Now with a healthier environment and a significant first mover advantage something like half of our user base already moved over onto WestlawNext we're not going to stop that at all and we've got very good plans in place to continue to invest behind it.
So I think customers should have a choice.
It won't go -- the market won't go 100% to us but we expect to get a disproportionately fair share.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Can I ask a quick follow-up question? Sure.
Inc.</strong> The other issue that's going to come up in the next year is this clearly flat pricing.
You mentioned the relatively weaker position of law firms.
Is flat pricing a source of concern for you potentially? Well I think if you look at the margins that our competitors have announced I think some of that has got to be what action they've taken on pricing to stay on desktops.
We have a pretty sophisticated commercial model in our Legal business which looks at each firm's actual usage and the value that we deliver and have always been able to take advantage of sort of premium capabilities and our leading position to get some pricing power there.
So I don't worry deeply about that.
But as Bob and I were talking about earlier we don't look at our Legal business and the growth of our Legal business as solely one of research desktops in big law firms.
We if you will step back and asked ourselves the question "How can we more comprehensively serve the needs of the entire legal community as they change and where should we position ourselves?" And the shift to a greater focus in Corporates the extension into more workflow tools the Serengeti desktop.
We have other things coming in that area which I think will enable us to continue to find growth in the legal market and to lead the legal market.
Okay.
That will conclude our call.
We thank you for joining us for the second quarter review and we look forward to speaking with you again over the next couple of weeks.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Frank Golden.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us as we report our third quarter 2011 results.
We will begin today with Thomson Reuters' CEO Tom Glocer who'll be followed by our CFO Bob Daleo.
Following Tom and Bob's presentations we'll open the call for questions and I'd ask that you please limit yourself to 1 question so we can get to as many as possible.
Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period on period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
It's now my pleasure to introduce the Chief Executive Officer of Thomson Reuters Tom Glocer.
Thank you Frank and thank you all for joining us this morning.
Here's a snapshot of our results for the third quarter.
The numbers themselves are positive but I'm not yet satisfied that they represent the sort of performance that our company is capable of delivering.
They also do not yet reflect the actions we have under way in the former Markets businesses and across the company to take up our game.
So rather than summarizing these results I'll leave that to Bob Daleo and I'll focus instead on the actions we've taken since last I spoke to you in this forum in July.
First I'll recap what our action plan was moving into Q3 then review what we've accomplished over the past 90 days.
And finally I'll provide you with our early thoughts about 2012 as we work to complete our budgets for next year.
On July 28 I told you that I'd take firm leadership for our Markets division and put it back on track for success.
To accomplish that goal I laid out a 5-point program that is outlined on this slide.
We needed to: simplify the business structure; drive an accountable performance culture through the appointment of a strong management team; realign the sales force with its markets customers and products; draw in proven managers and resources from other parts of the company to support these efforts; and reset our product strategy to emphasize new sales of Eikon and Elektron over more internally focused migration targets.
These changes are all about performance putting proven managers into clear and accountable roles speeding decision-making and improving collaboration.
All of which makes me confident that we can take the company to the next level of performance.
So let's talk about what we've accomplished so far.
The most significant change I announced during the quarter was appointing Jim Smith as COO and Stephane Bello as our next CFO.
Jim is a world-class operating executive and is excited about this new opportunity.
I'm also very pleased that Stephane will serve as CFO when Bob retires next year.
Stephane has been with the company for over 10 years having been the Treasurer and most recently the CFO for the Professional division.
Jim and Stephane bring an enormous amount of operating and financial experience as well as deep knowledge of our businesses and markets and I'm looking forward to continuing to work closely with them in their new roles.
Meanwhile at the corporate level we're replacing our former 2-division structure with a flatter streamlined organization that will drive simplicity performance accountability and collaboration across the company.
This will enable us to better leverage our scale and achieve efficiencies.
For example by building innovative technology platforms that can be shared across the company.
The divisional structure served us well during the Reuters integration.
That job is done and now is the time to marshal all of the assets and all of the people of Thomson Reuters to drive our business by focusing the full power of the company on such cross-unit opportunities like Governance Risk &amp; Compliance to help us grow.
In the sales organization we've begun to see the benefit of putting the right people in the right roles.
Chris Perry a 15-year company veteran has greatly streamlined our go-to-market approach by putting more resources on the ground in front of customers organized around global accounts regional firms and emerging markets.
Lastly we're also leveraging the strength of the entire financial business in our approach to developing marketing and selling Eikon.
We understand that a significant part of the value that we bring to customers lies in our unique ability to serve the entire firm's needs from desktops to mobile accesses to heavy-duty data feeds and infrastructure.
And so we've organized ourselves and reset the Eikon development path accordingly.
Eikon remains our flagship desktop offering and is now being sold as part of this integrated strategy alongside Elektron.
All of these changes are designed to promote agility speed decision-making and place authority and accountability as close as possible to the front line putting the customer first and thereby driving growth.
Now with all this change in parts of Markets let's not lose sight of the balance and strength of our portfolio as a whole.
As you can see from this chart 80% of our businesses grew in the first 9 months of this year and about half are growing over 5%.
And this isn't just our former Professional unit businesses such as Tax &amp; Accounting IP and Science and Legal but also Enterprise Fixed Income and Tradeweb in our former Markets division.
And we're working aggressively to strengthen the 20% of our business primarily the desktop-related business which is highlighted in red in order to deliver mid-single digit revenue growth that I believe the company is quite capable of achieving.
So how are we positioned for the balance of this year and into 2012? Well our Professional division businesses as well as the Enterprise and trading marketplaces units in Markets should continue to perform well and support overall company results.
And I'm confident that the strength of our franchises as well as the strategic product and organizational changes that we're making to those parts of our current Markets division that are not performing up to our expectations will help to improve sales performance in 2012 and drive 2013 revenue growth.
I want you to know that we will be satisfied with nothing less than all of our units performing at their best and we've begun to deliver on our plan to achieve this.
And with that let me turn things over to Bob to walk you through our Q3 performance.
But first let me just say I believe this is Bob's 53rd quarterly results presentation.
I've only been lucky enough to be at his side for 12 of those but I just wanted to say what a personal pleasure it's been and what a professional master class in doing things the right way.
Bob over to you.
Thank you Tom.
It's quite an introduction thank you.
And good morning good day.
Well as in the prior quarters I'm going to speak to revenue growth before currency.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each of these slides.
In addition for consistency and comparability with our previously reported results all the results I'm going to discuss today are on an ongoing basis and exclude all disposed announced to date including the planned sale of the Healthcare business.
For the consolidated business revenues in the third quarter were up 5% versus the prior year with 3% coming from acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 23% and underlying operating profit was up 12% in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA growth and underlying operating profit growth across both divisions was due to flow-through from higher revenues and integration savings.
Currency had virtually no impact on margins in the quarter.
The underlying operating profit margin also expanded 80 basis points.
Now let's turn to the divisions starting with Professional.
As you can see from this chart growth has continued to accelerate as professional markets recover and we realize the benefits of the investments we've made since 2009.
The third quarter marked the highest growth rate for Professional division since the third quarter of 2008.
As we discussed last quarter revenue growth trends have been strong and have been driven by 3 primary factors.
First growth from the launch of new product platforms such as WestlawNext and the ONESOURCE global tax workstation.
We've never had a more advanced set of products to deliver to our customers.
We continue to see good acceptance of WestlawNext which is offsetting downward pressure in the core legal research market especially in large law firms.
We now have over 29 000 customers including half of the Am Law 100 and more than 25 000 small law firms and 2 400 corporate legal departments.
We have and are continuing to invest in WestlawNext and in order to ensure the return on these investments we intend to continue selling our product at a premium in the market.
Second the legal services markets have improved albeit at a slower pace than we would like to see.
Legal demand is up not quite as much as we saw in the first and second quarter but demand continues to grow.
Third acquisitions and global expansion have contributed to an acceleration of growth.
Last year's acquisition of Revista dos Tribunais and this year's acquisition of Mastersaf have given us a strong presence in the legal and tax and accounting market in Brazil.
We are seeing strong organic growth from these investments.
The acquisitions of Complinet and World-Check allow us to further expand our presence in the rapidly growing governance risk and compliance market where we will soon have a $200 million business.
So overall we expect these trends will continue through the balance of this year and into next.
Now the Professional division has recorded 10% revenue growth and as noted on the prior slide 4% was from organic and 6% from acquisition.
And this is driven by solid performance from each of the 3 business units.
EBITDA increased 12% compared to the prior year and the corresponding margin was 36.1% an increase of 20 basis points.
Operating profit was up 12% compared to the prior year and the margin was up 20 basis points at 27.8% and this is despite absorbing 110 basis points of margin dilution from acquisitions.
Now I'll discuss the results of the segments within Professional.
Legal's third quarter revenues were up 8% 2% on an organic basis with the balance coming from acquisitions.
Law firm solutions revenues grew 3% of which 1% was organic driven by Business of Law which is comprised of fine line Elite which was up 17% partly offset by a 3% decline in research-related revenues.
Corporate Government &amp; Academic and Risk &amp; Compliance grew 13% of which 3% was organic.
Global businesses were up 10% of which 4% was organic with strong growth in Latin America and Canada.
Revista online continues to do very well with sales starting to ramp up.
Now EBITDA for the division increased 7% compared to the prior period and the corresponding margin was 38.3% down 60 basis points.
Operating profit also increased 7% from the higher revenues and efficiencies.
The margin however declined 40 basis points to 30.1% due to business mix and a 100 basis point impact from acquisitions.
Now Tax &amp; Accounting had another very strong quarter.
Revenues grew 20% of which 6% was organic driven by growth in income tax software sales electronic filing of tax returns Checkpoint and acquisitions.
Tax &amp; Accounting continues to show strong EBITDA growth up 24%.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth and the related margin was up 90 basis points.
Higher revenues and effective cost management led to the increase.
Operating profit increased 22% and the associated margin was up 30 basis points to 18.4% benefiting from revenue growth and efficiency initiatives partly offset by 110 basis point dilution from acquisitions.
Now this is the first quarter that reflects the results of Mastersaf and Manatron.
These transactions are important in our strategy as Mastersaf provides an extension of our Global Tax platform in Brazil a country with one of the most complex tax regimes in the world.
Manatron is focused on the fast-growing global government tax automation market and this represents a new growth opportunity for us.
While these businesses are growing double-digit and have EBITDA margins which are comparable to a greater than Tax &amp; Accounting segment as a whole they result in some near-term operating profit margin dilution from the amortization of acquired software.
As we have demonstrated in the past we expect operating profit margins will improve as these acquisition-related costs fall away after the 3-year period.
Now turning to IP and Science.
Revenues grew 10% of which 8% was organic.
Growth was driven by IP Solutions up 12% led by our sales of our IP manager software and services offering.
Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research grew 8% due to timing benefits related to a significant backfile sale -- sales I should say and growth in core information offerings.
Life Sciences increased 9% due to continued demand for biology and disease analytics products and acquisitions.
EBITDA increased 23% over the prior period and the corresponding margin was 36.7% up some 350 basis points.
And the operating profit was up 28% and the corresponding margin increased 390 basis points.
Now the increase in EBITDA and operating margins in the quarter was primarily due to timing of revenues.
The year-to-date performance on the operating profit margin is more reflective of what we expect in this business for the full year.
Now let's turn to the results for the Markets division.
In the third quarter the division grew revenues 1%.
Excluding recoveries revenues grew 2%.
Recovering revenues which account for 77% of the division's overall revenues were flat.
Transaction revenues grew 15% due to higher volumes and acquisitions including our increase in the company's ownership of Tradeweb.
Outright revenues and recoveries declined 9% and 5% respectively.
EBITDA was up 11% and the margin increased 150 basis points from the prior year to 28%.
Operating profit grew 8% and the margin was up 60 basis points from the prior year at 20.3%.
EBITDA and operating profit growth was driven by flow-through of integration savings and efficiency initiatives.
Now I'll turn to the results for the individual segments within the division.
Sales &amp; Trading revenues were up 2% driven by Tradeweb's 11% organic growth and an increase in the company's ownership in this business.
Revenue growth was partly offset by a 9% decline in recoveries.
Excluding these recoveries Sales and Trading's overall revenues were up 4%.
The Treasury business was up 1% while Exchange Traded Instruments declined 6% from planned shutdowns of low margin products and the continued decline of recovery revenues.
Eikon sales are now at over 32 000 desktops up 14% from the second quarter.
Now 27 000 of these are migrations from existing clients and 5 000 are new customers.
Active users now total around 8 000.
Investment &amp; Advisory revenues declined 3%.
Corporates increased 4% while Investment Banking was flat and Wealth Management declined slightly.
We continued to see weakness in our Investment Management business where revenues declined 8%.
We have launched a new retention program in May and are beginning to see improved customer retention already an important first step in stabilizing this business.
Enterprise continued to perform well growing 8% in the quarter and this is all organic.
Our innovative data distribution platform Elektron now has 14 hosting centers around the world.
The Enterprise Content business grew 16% driven by the continuing trend among customers to invest in pricing and reference data.
And finally Media revenues were flat in the quarter.
Now turning to some of the consolidated results for the company.
We'll start with adjusted earnings.
Underlying profit in the third quarter was $717 million.
If they're accounting for the other expenses reflected on this slide the net result is $470 million of adjusted earnings or $0.56 per diluted share.
This is an increase of $0.11 per share versus a year ago.
The increase is largely attributable to higher underlying profit and lower integration costs.
Currency actually accounted for about $0.02 of the increase.
A complete reconciliation from net income to adjusted earnings is available in the press release issued this morning.
Now turning to free cash flow.
Year-to-date reported free cash flow is $933 million.
Underlying free cash flow which removes $198 million of integration-related cash spending is $1.1 billion.
Reported free cash flow increased $81 million versus the prior period primarily due to lower integration costs.
For the full year we expect to generate strong levels of free cash flow.
Through today the company has repurchased 10.8 million shares of its stock for an aggregate purchase price of $325 million.
These purchases were pursuant to the Normal Course Issuer Bid program which was renewed in May and provides authorization for the company to purchase up to 15 million common shares.
Now this slide is an interesting one.
It talks about the highly-generated cash nature of our business with stable recurring revenue streams and robust capital structure which enables us to return a significant and increasing amount of cash to shareholders while continuing to reinvest for growth in the company.
This past year we increased the dividend 7% and we remained committed to maintaining growing dividends as an important component of overall shareholder return.
As you can see from this chart we have returned approximately $7 billion to shareholders since 2005 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
As we move through the year we will continue to consider the best use of proceeds including reinvesting in our business and share repurchases.
With integration programs coming to an end we expect to return to our target dividend payout ratio which is 40% to 50% of free cash flow and to grow dividends with free cash flow.
Now as we've noted we have reaffirmed our 2011 output -- outlook for our expected performance this year and this is before any impact of currency.
Year-to-date revenues are up 4%.
For the full year we continue to expect revenues to be in the mid-single digits.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA was up 26.6% and we are on track to achieve a 300 basis point plus increase from last year's margins.
And our underlying operating profit margin was 20.1%.
Again we believe that we are on track to achieve a 100 basis point increase from 2010's operating margin.
We continue to expect that strong EBITDA growth in 2011 will contribute to a 20% to 25% growth in reported free cash flow.
So as we look to finish out the year we continue to focus on executing on our action plan.
As Tom outlined we have made a number of changes that we believe will help drive revenue growth and achieve operating efficiencies across the organization.
These changes will speed decision-making while placing authority and accountability in the business units resulting in a better customer experience.
Now 2012 may be a challenging environment and we are planning accordingly.
Nevertheless I believe the strength and resilience of our franchises will continue to serve us well.
Now let me turn it back over to Frank to open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thanks very much Bob.
Now that concludes our formal remarks.
And at this point I would like to open the call for questions.
So we will take the first question please.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question today comes from the line Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Given what we're hearing as far as headcount reductions and cost cutting from customers in the Markets division are you seeing any changes from your competitors just in terms of pricing? And I guess you also mentioned that you are at about 5 000 new customers for Eikon.
Can you just talk about where that is relative to what your expectations were? Sure.
It's Tom.
I'll take that one.
Let's start with the Eikon one.
I mean I think we're being maybe unusually transparent.
I'd like to think as transparent as this company always is that we have a set of issues we wouldn't have taken such bold action in our Markets division absent that.
So Eikon is behind -- where certainly I and I know Bob would've wished it to be by now.
That said we've identified what the issues are.
We've got a very good plan both organizational and development around it and we'll get this right.
And then we'll be firing on all cylinders.
In terms of the pricing effect from competitors.
The biggest issue really is just the headcount action at the large institutions in particular sell side obviously it's less any explicit change in pricing strategy.
And rather that the overall pools are reducing as the overall heads in these institutions are going down.
There hasn't been a dramatic change.
It's been a competitive market as is but our big customers are looking for help from us and others to make ends meet.
Research Division</strong> Are you guys using pricing at all more aggressively now to try to migrate customers from competitors? No.
I mean I think we -- in a way we always use pricing aggressively in the following way: Which is since we just don't sell 1 product at 1 price but rather have a graduated product line where people can in effect self-select the bundles of content and functionality at price there is a built-in option to in effect buy just what you need.
And we also run a very transparent global discount program for our largest purchasers to encourage them to consolidate their activity which they do.
But beyond that no.
No particular special arrangements.
And our next question comes from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can give us an update on the divestiture of Healthcare.
Is that process still going well? And if it does conclude in the next few months any signal on the use of those funds? Given the aggressive share buybacks recently should we cue from that that you'd be looking to do even more if Healthcare closes? Well Vince we're still in the middle of that process and so I don't really want to comment on where we are.
We do expect to sell the business.
And as far as the proceeds go I think that we're always looking for the right opportunity to deploy our cash in the most effective way.
And if we feel that our stock continues to be undervalued and we continue to feel that it's good use of cash we'll use it there.
We also have as you know a lot of opportunities inside the business.
So it's always that balance between internal use of capital versus returning cash to shareholders and we're not shy certainly doing either of them.
And we do have a question from the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Tom could you maybe provide an update for Eikon.
The timing of the launch when you actually plan to push forward with the reworked plan that you talked about.
Maybe the magnitude of the investment cycle that's left in that product at this point.
Sure.
So to me the single largest requirement is that we deliver the performance and quality of the code base through all of our clients.
And that involves a server-side or a set of server-side releases which have been ongoing and a desktop release scheduled around the end of this year.
That will introduce significant new functionality and content some real exciting things in commodities and energy in particular.
But it will also herald a much more performance -- real-time data infrastructure.
So that's a big deal for us.
And that should help across the board in terms of Eikon next year.
That is by no means the last release along the development path.
I think I've signaled already at midyear that in terms of Investment Management's content and functionality some of those advanced analytics don't come until much later in the year.
But we think this will certainly help the Eikon franchise.
And in terms of actual cost you've begun to see the large amounts of spend roll-off associated with the integration and the work that was done on common platform.
Those are still working their way through depreciation so you should be sure to note that in your models.
But going forward really the Eikon development spend is in effect substitutional for the spend on the development of all the other products that migrate to it.
And there comes a point where the depreciation begins to roll off from the push.
We closed down some of those old infrastructures and we see a benefit but don't crank those in yet for next year.
And we do have a question from the line of Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A question for you Tom on the kind of soft outlook you gave -- soft isn't the right word -- the early outlook you gave for next year.
Can you just clarify? You're talking about improvement in sales and driving better revenue growth in '13.
What are you actually seeing in net sales trends at Markets? Was Markets up or down in the third quarter? And your expectation for next year is it actually for revenue growth at Markets or net sales growth? Or both? Yes.
I'm going to let -- Bob and I will tag team you.
So first let me say exactly what I meant in the closing in case I wasn't clear enough.
I wanted to point to 2 things.
First is that I'm pleased with this quarter.
I think it's good positive performance.
We have a very good business.
And I wanted to make sure that people did not yet think that the actions we took in July and are ongoing the actual plan that Bob and I talk about that you're already seeing those results in the third quarter and should say congratulations plan is working.
The fruits of those actions will play through in 2012 I'd expect in terms of better sales in Markets than we would have had in the absence of those changes.
And then part 2 is and you know this well Michael the recurring subscription model that we like so much does have an inherent lag.
So if net sales go up next year then you'll actually see the benefit in period on period growth statistics in 2013.
Now to bridge over to Bob and I'll let him talk about the numbers in particular we did run slightly negative on net sales in the third quarter.
That's not a surprise to me.
Frankly I wouldn't have fired half the team if things were going swimmingly in Markets.
But that does obviously have implications.
And Bob I don't know if you want to take that anymore.
Sure.
The sales through this year have not been as robust as we had hoped and that's why as Tom said we made the changes.
And what that plays through is to expectations for revenue growth for next year.
While we fully expect -- given the changes we made we're going to sell a lot more of our Products and services in 2012 than we sold in 2013 it doesn't have the same impact in terms of revenues.
So my guess would be -- my expectations would be that we wouldn't expect revenue growth materially stronger than it was in 2011.
And that plays through also into things like operating margins because to grow the business and expand the margins dramatically you need to have more growth than that.
So we've had significant expansions in margins in the Markets through some really incredibly robust efficiencies and cost cuttings and things like that and we will continue to do that in 2012.
But without some growth in revenues it would be a bit of a challenge to see significant margin expansion next year.
Research Division</strong> But at this revenue growth level you're I believe 1% organic year-to-date.
Do you think you could drive margins in Markets next year if you did that revenue level? I think it's too early in our planning process to answer that.
I know that we will be very much directed at making sure we continue to do that.
But it's just too early for us to really say that.
And the answer Michael is we can always do that but the art of it is can we do that and also aim for the sort of sustainable growth we're looking for in outer years? We're managing for that value in a sustainable franchise but I think we've been good on the cost lines to date.
And again I just want to reemphasize.
We're actually confident that we're going to see growth in this business next year.
It's going to be sales growth and given the nature of our model it doesn't always translate immediately to revenues.
So all the things we're doing we're very positive about the changes that we're making and the impact it's going to have on our business.
But the sales model that protects us on the downside in terms of a lag also gives us a bit of a challenge on the upside.
And our next question comes from the line of Drew McReynolds from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the free cash flow guidance for 2011.
Just getting a lot of questions on how do we kind of square off your reported free cash flow year-to-date with the 20% to 25% year-over-year increase.
Maybe Bob if you could kind of walk us through how we do that.
Yes.
Sure I'm happy to.
I think cash is one of our most challenging items to forecast and we -- traditionally the fourth quarter is usually a very big cash quarter.
And frankly we had a strong cash quarter last year at this same time.
And we're anticipating that we should have the same thing.
Now there are other puts and takes in terms of timing of cash tax payments and things.
It could work for us or against us.
But I feel significantly confident in the run rate of the business that any changes would be as a result of timing and not really fundamental business performance.
That's why we continue to guide that way because we do feel the business will continue to see significant cash generation.
And as I said that fourth quarter is a really big one for us and we feel confident that we can achieve it.
And we do have a question from the line of Sara Gubins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to continue the conversation about your early expectations for 2012 on the Professional side.
If the macro environment remains kind of as is how would you think about Professional headed into 2012? It's Tom.
At the moment we don't see any significant change to the positive trends you've seen which doesn't mean that in as large a business and made up of multiple units you don't have some swings and roundabouts there.
But those businesses are performing very well and the market outlook remains generally positive.
Although obviously if European debt crisis melts down the world's economy it will have an effect on those businesses as well.
We have not seen that to date in the way that we have seen that pall over let's say over the large sell side banking franchise.
I would add that the Professional division has a lot of momentum going into 2012.
The product innovation we've talked about which are just starting to really take hold in the marketplace the acquisitions that we've talked about that are really in growth segments of our Markets both globally and sectionally.
So like Tom said barring any global melt down we feel the business is in an excellent position to continue to sustain a very very good growth momentum.
And we do have a question from the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Bob I know you've been asked several times but can you just walk us through the margin impacts for 2012? What the drivers are within the Markets group because you've -- as Tom said the biggest movements on the pipeline sort of thing on the costs associated with common platforms.
And now we're into I guess operating efficiency or operating leverage on the revenues.
But should we anticipate significant margin declines in the absence of revenue growth? Or is the underlying cost base there kind of stable? Tim we should not anticipate significant margin declines at all.
And like I said this is the -- we're talking about we're just in the middle of our planning process.
I think the management team has done a great job of bringing effectiveness and efficiency out of the businesses and those are sustainable efficiencies.
So I think that the real question is to get more -- to get accelerated margin expansion in any business not just Markets.
In Professional in Legal we need to have organic growth rates that are like 3% 4% right? And so -- and we will see those in this business in we believe 2013 and beyond.
But we won't see them next year.
And so as a result of that it's likely that we won't enjoy the kind of margin expansion we've seen in the past.
And I'll leave it at that.
But I will tell you for sure we don't see dramatic margin decline in this business in any fashion.
In any fashion.
Our next question comes from the line of Phillip Huang of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to -- I think it was asked earlier.
I was wondering if you could provide a bit more detail on your visibility to the impact of your business from the bank headcount reductions announced through the summer.
You've mentioned that net sales is slightly negative in Q3.
But how should we think -- how do you think -- where do you think it troughs in 2012? And how do things compare relative to the last downturn? And also from your comments it sounds like 2012 is certainly a bit of a transition year.
You've talked about sales growth but I was wondering if you could potentially see organic revenue growth turn negative in 2012.
Okay.
So Bob and I will gang-tackle this one.
There are 2 -- to my mind there are 2 phenomenon going on in the overall financial Markets as they relate to our performance.
First is a set of cyclical issues and we can look to the last cycle which I hope was a deeper one i.e.
2009 and '10 for guidance there.
That one ended up being more shallow for us despite the obvious existential risks to the banking system.
And although that will affect us and you see that on lines like ETI which are more to do with market necessarily than a particular set of product issues for us we think we can weather those reasonably.
There is also going on at the same time and UBS -- you see this more perhaps more than anyone else a set of structural issues like how does UBS deal with the Swiss potential requirement of a 19% reserve requirement? What businesses that you're currently in today are no longer profitable? All of the major banks European in particular are grappling with that question.
And so what we're seeing play out simultaneously is a set of cyclical issues and that longer-term structural one.
Let me just say while addressing it though that the very same trends that do have an effect on headcount-related businesses tend to benefit our Enterprise business.
And you saw not only how it continues to grow now but right through '09 and '10 it grew at 8% 9% 10%.
We see those trends continuing and in many ways strengthening.
And finally with our trading marketplaces business Tradeweb is very well positioned from a regulatory point of view.
FX volumes have been strong in our FX businesses.
Those help by in effect sheltering around half of our Markets revenues from these very headcount-driven reductions.
So put it all together we're not immune we're not going to make a specific organic revenue projection for next year beyond what we're already doing this early in the year which is to give you a sort of early look.
But those are the factors and I think you're probably able to put them together as well as we.
Research Division</strong> If I could tag on to that with the collapse of your divisions structure.
I was wondering if you might be able to comment initially how you might look to report those results going forward.
This is Bob.
I think that right now we're in the process of determining that.
And while we're not prepared to comment on it today I am certain that when we issue our fourth quarter results we will have greater clarity.
But it's safe to say that we will certainly continue to have transparency that equals or exceeds what we currently provide today not less.
And you'll get the comparables so that...
And our next question comes from the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Earlier you addressed trends in Professional more broadly.
But can you do the same specifically for the demand environment in Legal? Which slowed organically another point in the quarter.
Are you seeing an overly intensification of the tight cost control behavior for expenditures other than productivity measures? Or is this just a rounding error in the numbers? This is Bob.
We continue to see a tightening in the marketplace for large law firms in core research and that's what you see as reflected in the numbers.
There is also some timing in the quarter relative to other segments that would have had a little bit higher sales to offset that further.
But there is a reality here that the core legal research marketplace as exemplified by large law has changed dramatically in the past couple of years.
And I would point you back to that slide that I showed for the overall Professional division.
Because I think that the Professional team has done a great job of understanding what's going on in that marketplace and with their strategic initiatives and investments have very definitely moved the business to other positions in other segments and markets to be able to sustain overall organic growth rates and indeed they accelerated then.
So I think there is a reality that core legal research is a market that has slow if no growth and perhaps declining marketplace at least in the current term.
But the opportunities that we see in Professional beyond that both in the Legal market place and in places like Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science and Investments in Brazil we feel very comfortable that any declines in that segment or the sluggishness can be more than offset by growth opportunities in other areas.
Research Division</strong> I mean has there been any progress in being able to get rate on on WestlawNext or is the aggressive pricing behavior of your competitors still a factor in the larger firms? Well I think that pricing is always a factor when businesses are challenged right?.
And large law firms even though demand has increased continue to be a bit challenge.
There is clearly a shift in -- if you want to call it the power between suppliers and purchasers and that shift moving to the corporate space.
And we have been definitely following that with investments in businesses that serve the Corporate Legal segment.
So yes there's no doubt that pricing is something that the competition has used.
And we have reason [ph] to respond but not in every case.
We continue to see premium pricing for WestlawNext in the marketplace because of the value that it provides.
And I think that this is simply a reality of today's environment.
And Matt let me tag on here because I think there's an important point to make about the action plan and what we expect in Markets.
We're disaggregating Legal here which is obviously one whole business.
And were we not separately pointing to the success we're having at the Corporate General Counsel the success in growing our GRC business the success in Latin America and other emerging markets they're all part of Legal.
And so we're sort of abstracting in saying core research is negative but we're taking a lot of the offensive weaponry away and saying well those are growth initiatives.
And when you look at our Markets business and one of the things that Jim Stephan and I are doing as we approach our plans for '12 and beyond is to say we have those comparable growth vectors in Markets.
Enterprise Commodities &amp; Energy RDE Markets our FX business we just don't have as many growth vectors and that's why you're seeing some of the headcount-related business in Markets pulling us backwards.
So that gives me confidence.
The playbook we run in Legal is a really good playbook.
I wouldn't get depressed about a couple of points back in core research because it's a bit of an abstraction.
And think about that playbook running as a growth playbook across the whole company.
And our final question of the day comes from the line of Nick Dempsey from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on that Legal question.
I wonder if you could remind us what proportion of your total Legal revenues are in print.
And to what extent a decline in print is explaining that minus 3% in the research-related revenues that we just talked about.
About 1/4 of the revenues in Legal are in print.
And they do represent --  they've declined a couple of percentage points.
So that would certainly contribute to the overall decline in the research area.
Research Division</strong> So you mean that the print revenues declined a couple of percentage points or they contributed a couple of points to decline to the revenue growth division? I looked at the wrong -- they're about flat.
They're about flat.
Research Division</strong> The print revenue growth in the quarter was flat.
Okay.
That's right.
Okay that will conclude our Q&amp;A session.
Before we close I'd like to turn it back over to Bob Daleo for some closing comments.
Well as Tom mentioned when he opened the --  when he turned it over to me I've been at this for a while.
And I'm certainly going to -- even though I am stepping down from this role at the beginning of the year I'm certainly going to assist Stephane and Tom with closing out this year and planning for 2012.
But Stephane will be sitting with Tom for the Q4 call next February as well he should be.
So this is a bittersweet moment for me.
Sweet because I've been doing this for a long time and both the organization and I are ready for change.
And this is relatively easy to do with Stephane sitting in the wings.
I hired him about a decade ago and since have watched his career progressed.
Admittedly I've had a hand in charting some of his course.
I'm confident about his succession as just -- and most of you probably know this he would be the third sitting CFO in modern history at Thomson and its successors Thomson Reuters.
He brings integrity financial discipline a knowledge of the business an incredible intellect and energy to the role.
He was a partner with me in developing the capital strategy and financial processes which are now embedded in the business and he's backed up by a strong team and they're quite experienced.
In short we won't miss a beat.
Now the bitter part is because I've been doing this for a long time and I thoroughly enjoyed my time I'd have to say some perhaps more than others.
It's been a privilege serve you the investor in our company and to work over the years with a dedicated and talented group of professionals who I count on as colleagues and friends.
It's been a great run and I will always apply the experiences and cherish the memories in the years ahead.
Thanks.
Thanks very much Bob.
And that will conclude our call.
Thank you all for joining us.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay today November 1 after 10:30 a.m.
through November 8 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 entering the access code 220102.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
We will begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by Stephane Bello our CFO.
Following Jim and Stephane's presentations we will open the call for questions but please limit yourselves to one question each.
Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare period -- performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
In addition today's results are presented on an ongoing basis and exclude disposals announced in 2011 including our Healthcare business.
Now today we announced 3 disposals: Property Tax Services a $100 million revenue business; our Law School Publishing business with revenues of $45 million; and eXimius a $10 million business in the Wealth Management unit of our Financial &amp; Risk segment.
Results for these 3 businesses are included within ongoing businesses for comparability purposes since we own them for the entire reporting period.
These disposals are expected to close by midyear and are excluded from our 2012 outlook.
On our website we have posted our full 2012 outlook as an attachment to today's presentation.
Lastly in early April we'll provide restated results for 2010 and 2011 that exclude these businesses.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our investor relations department.
It is my pleasure to now introduce the Chief Executive Officer of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and I'd like to thank all of you for joining us for my first earnings call as CEO.
If anything has been reaffirmed to me over the past several weeks it's just how strong this business really is.
Our future is bright.
Our core Professional businesses continue to deliver.
We are making real progress in fixing the execution issues in some critical areas of our Markets business and we're getting our product pipeline including Eikon back on track.
Most importantly we're seeing a number of opportunities to grow in a dramatically changing market environment.
My new team is off to a flying start.
Today I'll give you an overview of how we'll be managing the business.
We will update you on the operational changes we've already put into place and we'll give you our outlook for 2012.
But first let me review our full year 2011 results.
2011 revenue grew by 5% with particularly strong performance from our Professional businesses Legal Tax &amp; Accounting IP &amp; Science.
The Markets business grew 2% despite market headwinds and internal execution issues.
EBITDA and operating profit margins were up nicely despite a $50 million charge in the fourth quarter primarily related to the reorganization of the Markets business.
Excluding that charge the EBITDA margin was up over 300 basis points and operating margin was up nearly 100 basis points.
I'm sure you will be pleased to hear as I am to announce that we have completed the Reuters integration program having achieved aggregate savings of $1.7 billion.
This is the last time you will hear us utter the word integration.
Reported free cash flow was up slightly but was impacted by a negative swing in working capital and the disposal of several cash-generative businesses last year.
Free cash flow from ongoing businesses was up 7% for the year.
Stephane will provide you with more detail during his presentation.
Finally adjusted earnings per share for the year were $1.98 or $2.03 before the reorganization charge I previously mentioned.
Both figures exclude the impairment charge.
Professional's full year revenues rose 9% driven by solid growth across each business: Legal was up 8%; Tax &amp; Accounting was up 14%; and IP &amp; Science was up 7% a terrific performance.
The strong growth is reflective of the investments we've been making in these businesses over the past 4 years with innovative products like WestlawNext and ONESOURCE.
This organic growth has been supplemented with investments in fast-growing geography such as Latin America and in fast-growing adjacencies like tax management services for governments.
For the former Markets division businesses now Financial &amp; Risk revenues increased 2% finishing the year below what we had originally expected.
Last year's poorly executed sales reorganization into the face of a challenging market environment resulted in a negative net sales for the second half of 2011.
That of course creates a spillover effect into 2012.
Still significant parts of the Financial &amp; Risk business are performing well and provide a solid foundation.
We have a new energetic and engaged management team.
We have a refined and more focused strategy and we have a whole new environment of rigorous operating management transparency accountability and execution.
We like our position.
We have the best content broad deep and truly global.
We have a full range of solutions from desktop to enterprise at multiple price points and value propositions.
We have a model that works with clients' internal data their systems and their third-party partners to build platforms upon which they can innovate.
We have the best information architecture to tie it all together and we are far and away the leader in regulatory compliance perhaps the most significant factor driving change in financial services today.
I'm confident that David Craig and his team have the right combination of ambition urgency and pragmatism to get the job done.
At the Corporate level we are also grounding ourselves in reality this morning announcing a $3 billion goodwill impairment charge.
The fact of the matter is the external world and market valuations have changed since we completed the Reuters acquisition in 2008.
The fact also is that we did not execute up to our expectations and we've yet to achieve the performance we expected from certain parts of the Markets business.
Today we put the past in the past and set our focus squarely on the future.
This non-cash charge does not reflect the lack of confidence that we can return this business to organic growth rates in the mid-single digits nor does it impact the company's normal business operations nor will it affect liquidity cash flow from operations or financial covenants under the company's outstanding public debt securities or revolving credit facility.
I'm confident that our Financial &amp; Risk business is capable of growing mid-single digit top line over the cycle and I am committed to achieving that.
Today let me also share with you how we think about our business and my priorities for the coming year.
We are well underway in executing against these priorities.
First and foremost we're kick starting the growth engine in Financial &amp; Risk.
One of the main issues for the former Markets division was that execution was inconsistent across the business.
We can fix that and we are already making progress.
Second we will continue to shift our investment toward higher growing segments and emerging opportunities across the business.
This is the playbook that worked for years at Thomson and it's the playbook that worked so well in our Professional division.
Some of you will remember that when I was running Professional we formulated our Big Ten list which laid out what we believe were our greatest growth opportunities.
We invested and executed behind those opportunities.
And last year we achieved revenue growth of 9% in Professional.
And our growth initiatives were a big part of that story.
One of the fastest growing opportunities we're focusing on now is the intersection of regulation and finance.
Given our strong market position in financial services and in Risk &amp; Compliance we have unique opportunities to significantly expand our position in this growing market.
We've built a rapidly growing GRC business that is poised for growth in its own right and we have more opportunity to ramp up growth as we integrate those capabilities into our financial services business.
Third we will exploit the strengths of our global franchises.
No other information company has the breadth of product the geographic reach and the global customer relationships at Thomson Reuters.
I expect our new management team to work across business units to build products that meet the unique needs of customers with components contributed by all of our units.
In addition News &amp; Insight will become part of the basic fabric of all our flagship products.
We have the world's biggest and best news organization and no one is better positioned as the source for market moving news.
Fourth we must continue to accelerate development of our business in fast-growing geographies around the world.
Our new global growth unit is dedicated to exactly that.
Just getting better in our core markets will not be sufficient if the majority of global growth happens elsewhere.
That's why we spent 2/3 of our acquisition dollars last year outside North America.
And that focus has begun to move the needle of performance for our Professional businesses.
Now let me turn to how we're prioritizing our efforts within the Financial &amp; Risk business.
To begin we've reorganized the business around customers rather than our products.
We now go to market to serve investors marketplaces traders and compliance officers not to sell desktops or fees.
A subtle change perhaps but one that creates much greater alignment around customer needs.
We started 2012 with a revamped global sales and marketing organization designed specifically to upgrade our account management capabilities and to put us closer to customers around the world.
It's a simpler regional model focusing on growth and retention with specialists aligned closely with each business segment.
This group is led by Chris Perry a 15-year company veteran.
Over the past couple of weeks I've attended sales kickoffs in New York London Paris and Geneva where we discussed our priorities put issues on the table and got down to business.
These meetings are wrapping up in Asia this week and will touch every one of our 3 000 strong Financial &amp; Risk front line sales force.
The response has been very encouraging.
Our organization made a mistake in thinking of Eikon as a strategy rather than a product.
Eikon is an enabler of our strategy a product that will become a gold standard in our portfolio of products and services.
The good news is that we have made significant progress in the past few months improving stability performance and functionality.
There are a number of releases on track for this year and we're now getting real traction in segments like Wealth Management Commodities &amp; Energy Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange.
And while I'm not going to overstate where we are we are slowly and steadily building confidence in the market with the product.
We are working to ensure that Eikon meets the needs of the 21st century financial professional.
It's important to note that our customers want us to succeed here.
By year end I'm expecting a significant increase in active users of the Eikon product.
One of my key priorities is to dramatically improve customer experience.
This is absolutely essential and work has begun.
To that end we've already implemented a premium service plan for Eikon customers.
David Craig is walking the talk by requiring each member of his executive team to spend time in a customer service center in order to gain a better understanding of the issues our customers and employees face each day.
I'm confident this is getting the proper attention and we will achieve significant improvement to our customer satisfaction ratings this year.
I am very pleased with the new team we have put in place and how they're coming together to attack the issues.
They are setting the tone for change and we are reaching across the entire company taking the best and the brightest to fill the roles throughout the organization.
Finally the changes we have introduced will deliver greater transparency and accountability as we push decision-making closer to the customer.
We are building a new fact-based operational culture and we are managing by inspection not expectation.
This is the new organizational structure effective January 1 and the new leadership team.
David Craig mentioned earlier leads Financial &amp; Risk and has been with us for 5 years.
David led the creation of our fast-growing GRC business.
Gone is the desktop and non-desktop structure and go-to-market approach.
This segment has been simplified and organized around 4 end user groups that you see on this slide and brings together a common technology platform for desktop applications content feeds and underlying connectivity required to support our core investing and trading customers.
Mike Suchsland a 13-year veteran of our Legal business is now President of the Legal segment.
You will note that we've moved GRC to Financial &amp; Risk given the increasing overlap between regulation and finance.
The Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science segments are unchanged from a reporting standpoint and will continue to be led by Brian Peccarelli a 14-year company veteran and Chris Kibarian who's been with the company for 10 years.
Lastly Shanker Ramamurthy will lead our Global Growth &amp; Operations business and will work closely with the head of each of our business segments to identify opportunities in fast-growing geographies.
Shanker brings senior executive focus experience and authority to this critical task.
Now before I discuss our 2012 outlook let me provide some context.
Like everyone else we anticipate headwinds this year.
While it's still early days I'm pleased to report that we are getting our arms around the issues within our control and the management team is focused on executing and on our strategy.
I'm completely confident we can reignite growth in the Financial &amp; Risk business and continue to achieve healthy profitable growth in our Professional businesses.
The improvements we are making will serve us well in challenging times and even better as markets improve.
Better products and excellent customer service are well within our control.
However downdrafts of the big global banks are outside our control and could result in further cancellations that would temper our near-term results.
In the second half of last year we clearly saw the impact of the deteriorating banking environment especially in Europe.
Going forward we expect net sales to gradually improve as we introduce new products and improve customer service.
To the extent things stabilize in Europe and U.S.
banks grow more quickly this concern will lessen and provide us with a bit more headroom.
Lastly I am confident our strategy will enable us to identify other ways to grow the business both organically and through tactical investments in adjacent markets and in faster-growing global markets.
Now for our 2012 outlook.
First we forecast that our revenues will grow in the low-single digits for the company as a whole.
Second our adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to increase and range between 27% and 28%.
Third our underlying operating margin is forecast to decrease and range between 18% and 19%.
This is due to higher depreciation and amortization expense related to new products like WestlawNext and Eikon.
Fourth we expect reported free cash flow to grow 5% to 10% and ongoing free cash flow to grow 15% to 20%.
Lastly given our strong capital position and our confidence in the cash-generating capacity of the company we announced this morning that we're increasing our dividend by $0.04 to $1.28 per share.
This marks the 19th consecutive annual increase.
Let me conclude by saying that 2012 will again be a challenging year but we are up to the task.
I'm confident our core businesses will continue to perform.
I'm also confident that we can kick start the growth engine in our newly formed Financial &amp; Risk business on the back of a simplified organization structure a new management team and a series of product launches and service improvements this year.
Improving the consistency of our execution is critical to assure we accomplish our goals and I am confident that we have begun laying the foundation for a more successful future.
Now let me turn it over to Stephane Bello.
Thank you Jim and it's a pleasure to speak with all of you today.
It is with a great deal of humility that I succeed Bob Daleo at the helm of the company's finance organization.
Let me begin by assuring you that my intention is to provide you with the same level of transparency and granularity that you came to expect from Bob each quarter to enable you to gain a better understanding of the ins and outs of our businesses.
Now on this slide are 5 key priorities that I shared with the finance organization at the beginning of the year.
We are in the midst of a period of change and it is absolutely imperative that the finance organization provide the leadership and clarity of thought to support core businesses on the front lines each day.
First simplification.
Consistent with Jim's earlier message we need to set clear priorities focus on a limited number of key growth initiatives and invest and execute behind them.
Second we must provide complete financial transparency to our business leaders and hold them accountable for their results not just at the revenue level but all the way to the operating profit level with all the costs required to run their businesses fully allocated.
We do have this level of accountability and [indiscernible] transparency across the former Professional businesses and we are establishing the same principles in the Financial &amp; Risk business.
And third collaboration.
As Jim mentioned we must work more effectively as a team and better leverage the many assets we have across the company to improve performance.
Now our #1 priority is restarting the growth engine in Financial &amp; Risk which Jim discussed so I won't elaborate any further on this importance.
This will require investment but we can do that within our current spending envelope.
This is all about driving a more focused capital allocation and prioritization process.
And last but not least we must maintain a relentless focus on growing free cash flow.
In my mind long-term free cash flow growth is the most important metric to measure the financial success of our strategy.
Let me turn to the discussion of our 2011 results.
As Jim mentioned on January 1 we disbanded our divisional structure and replaced it with 5 business units.
Starting with our first quarter results we will break down the results both at the revenue and OI level for Financial &amp; Risk Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science separately.
The results of our fifth business the Global Growth &amp; Operations organization will be incorporated within these 4 segments.
This pie chart reflects the Legacy divisional structure.
We are reporting our fourth quarter and full year results on that basis given that we managed the business that way last year.
Despite the challenges and reorganizations that we faced in 2011 our overall performance though somewhat below our expectations was still up for revenues EBITDA and operating profit.
And as you can see on this chart 80% of our business grew in 2011 with about half growing more than 5%.
This is not just our former Professional unit businesses but also Enterprise Fixed Income &amp; Tradeweb in the former Markets division.
So the key point of this slide is that it is important not to lose sight of the scale balance and strength of our portfolio as a whole.
Throughout today's presentation I will speak to revenue growth before currency.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In addition for consistency and comparability with our previously reported results and because we managed these businesses for the entire year the 3 planned disposals we announced today are included in the results.
These 3 businesses generated approximately $155 million in revenues $45 million in operating profit $40 million in free cash flow and they contributed about $0.03 to adjusted EPS in 2011.
So turning to our fourth quarter performance.
For the consolidated business revenues in the fourth quarter were up 5% versus the prior year with 3% benefit coming from acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA was at 26% and underlying operating profit was up 8% in the quarter reflecting the flow-through from higher revenues as well as integration savings.
And the underlying operating profit margin expanded by 50 basis points.
Now for the full year.
Revenues were up 5% to $12.9 billion up 2% organic and 3% from acquisitions.
Full year EBITDA increased 20% with the EBITDA margin improving 280 basis points and full year operating profit increased 9% with the corresponding margin of 20%.
And again adjusting for the $50 million charge incurred in the fourth quarter the margin improvement would have been about 40 basis points higher both at the EBITDA and OI level.
Now let's turn to the results of both divisions starting with Professional.
The Professional division recorded 9% revenue growth in the fourth quarter 3% organic and 6% from acquisitions.
This was driven by steady performance from all 3 business units.
EBITDA and operating profit both increased 8% compared to Q4 2010 and the corresponding margins were down slightly as flow-through from higher revenues was offset by the change in business mix in our Legal segment.
For the full year revenues rose 9% to $5.4 billion up 4% organic and 5% from acquisitions.
EBITDA and operating profit both increased 9% and the corresponding margins were also down slightly.
So in aggregate the Professional division generated EBITDA and operating profit growth of 9% essentially in line with revenue growth.
Not only did the business generate strong revenue growth it also delivered equally strong growth in profits which is really what matters in the end.
Now I'll discuss the results of the segments within Professional starting with Legal and some of the underlying dynamics in that segment.
WestlawNext continues to capitalize on its position as the premier legal information service in the U.S.
Despite the challenging U.S.
legal research market we converted over 50% of our revenue to WestlawNext which was used by about 34 000 customers at year end.
Attorneys clearly recognized the product's value from greater productivity and efficiency which has enabled us to substantially sustain our pricing structure.
Nevertheless the law firm market in the U.S.
continues to be challenged with employment having declined 5% since its peak in mid-2007.
And demand for legal services was up only very modestly last year.
It's important to note that these challenges are primary impacting us in the U.S.
Law Firm research market.
Our U.S.
legal research business is $1.4 billion or 4% of the $3.4 billion revenue generated by our overall Legal segment.
The remaining $2 billion grew 16% in aggregate last year with strong growth in Business of Law GRC Risk &amp; Fraud and the RDEs just to name a few.
As Jim indicated we began allocating capital to these higher growth sectors 3 years ago as part of our Big Ten strategy in Professional and we are now seeing the benefit of this focused capital allocation process.
For perspective the orange section of the chart which is the core legal research sold to U.S.
Law Firm represented almost 50% of the total Legal revenues in 2008 versus 40% today.
Now examples of the investments we've made include the acquisition of Revista dos Tribunais in Brazil and the subsequent launch of Revista Online and in GRC the acquisitions of Complinet and World-Check and the launch of Accelus.
We also have a beachhead in the Corporate market with our Serengeti matter management software and we are developing new solutions to better serve the General Counsel.
So despite a challenging core legal research market we continue to see strong growth opportunities across our Legal business.
As you can see on this slide Legal grew 8% in 2011 3% organic despite the fact that the core legal research both print and online in the U.S.
declined by 2%.
Going forward we will follow the same approach of identifying key growth opportunities and investing behind them in a very focused way in our Financial &amp; Risk business.
We are confident that this approach will enable us to turn around our organic growth performance in that segment as we have done in the Professional businesses.
Now turning to the fourth quarter results for Legal.
Revenues were up 5% 1% on an organic basis with the balance coming from acquisitions.
The sequential decline in the earning growth rate from 2% in Q3 to 1% in Q4 was in large part the result of softness in our U.S.
legal research business and also lower print revenues.
Excluding U.S.
print revenues actually grew 2% organically in Q4 or about the same level as Q3.
Fourth quarter EBITDA increased 4% compared to the prior year period and the corresponding margin was down 50 basis points.
This is due to the business mix effect I referred to earlier.
Our high-margin core legal research business declined by 3% while the rest of the portfolio which has attractive margins but just not as high is growing strongly.
Operating profit increased 5% in Q4 and the margin increased by 10 basis points.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another strong quarter.
Revenues were 19% 6% organic driven by the growth in income tax software sales Checkpoint and acquisitions.
Tax &amp; Accounting continues to show strong EBITDA growth up 10%.
This was the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth.
Fourth quarter operating profit increased 7% and the associated margin was down 350 basis points to 32%.
Now EBITDA and operating profit margins were down primarily due to expense timing.
And I'd like to remind you that small movement in the timing of expenses can have a meaningful impact on margins in any given quarter for both our Tax &amp; Accounting business and our IP &amp; Science business that's due to the law of small numbers.
The full year margins are much more reflective of the underlying performance and in that regard the full year EBITDA margin expanded 70 basis points and the operating profit margin expanded 50 basis points reflecting my earlier comment that strong growth in revenues 14% for the year did translate in even stronger growth in profits.
Now turning to IP &amp; Science.
Revenues grew 9% of which 7% was organic.
Growth was driven by IP Solutions which was up 10%.
The other units performed well also with Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research up 7% and Life Sciences up 12% of which 5% was organic.
EBITDA increased 23% compared to the prior year period and operating profit was up 21%.
Once again you should not focus on our quarterly margin performance for this business but rather look at the full year margin.
The full year EBITDA margin expanded 140 basis points and the operating profit margin expanded 130 basis points translating in this case into a 13% rise in profits.
Now let me turn to the former Markets division.
In the fourth quarter Markets revenues grew 2% of which 1% was organic.
Recurring revenues which account for 75% of the division's revenues grew 1% over the prior year.
Transactions revenues grew 4% mainly due to Tradeweb.
Recoveries declined 2% and Outright revenues were 23% primarily driven by strong onetime revenues in the Enterprise segment.
Operating profit grew 4% in Q4 and the margin was up 40 basis points from the prior year period to 16.7%.
For the full year former Markets division revenues were up 2% full year operating profit was up 10% and the margin grew 90 basis points to 18.8% due to integration savings and efficiency initiatives.
Now I'll discuss the results for the individual segments within Markets.
Sales &amp; Trading fourth quarter revenues were up 2% and excluding a 5% decline in recoveries revenues rose 3%.
Tradeweb grew 5% organically during the quarter.
In Investment &amp; Advisory revenues declined 3%.
Corporate revenues were up 1% and Investment Banking revenues were flat in a very difficult market.
Investment Management declined 4% despite improving but still negative sales.
The 4% decline in Investment Management while still weaker than our aspirations was its best performance since Q2 of 2009 and represented a sequential improvement from an 8% decline in both the third and the second quarter.
Enterprise again achieved a strong performance growing 10% in the quarter all organic.
Growth was driven by demand for innovative data distribution platform Elektron which now has 14 hosting centers around the world.
The Enterprise Content business grew 17% as new regulations and compliance requirements drove customers to invest in pricing and reference data.
And finally the Media revenues were up 1% in the quarter and were flat for the full year.
Let's now turn to adjusted earnings per share which exclude the impairment charge we announced today.
Adjusted EPS for the full year was $1.98 and excluding the $50 million reorganization charge EPS was $2.03.
Currency had a $0.06 favorable impact on the full year EPS and no impact in the quarter.
Of the 27% improvement in EPS about half was driven by underlying profit improvement and the other half resulted from lower integration-related cost.
The fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.54 a share an increase of $0.17 versus the year ago period.
Excluding reorganization charges adjusted EPS was $0.59 per share.
A complete reconciliation from net income to adjusted earnings is of course available in the press release issued this morning.
Now turning to free cash flow.
Typically we have generated about 40% of our free cash flow in the fourth quarter making it one of the more challenging metrics to forecast.
For the full year reported free cash flow was $1.6 billion up $39 million or 2% primarily due to lower integration costs.
Free cash flow was below our expectations primarily due to 2 main factors.
First our DSO deteriorated by 3 days with the biggest impact felt in our Markets business.
This is essentially another reflection of the difficult market environment.
Some of our customers are holding cash and taking a bit longer to pay their bills.
Cash taxes were about $130 million year -- higher than last year and that was due to higher profits and also due to unexpected prior period tax settlements.
One final cut on free cash flow for 2011 and our expectations for 2012.
Divestitures negatively impacted free cash flow as we only received cash flow from these businesses during the first half of the year under our ownership.
So if you exclude the free cash flow from all the divestitures we have either closed or announced to date the free cash flow from ongoing businesses was at about $100 million up 7% in 2011.
I should point out that free cash flow will be negatively impacted in 2012 because of the various disposals we have announced over the past year.
In total these businesses generated $215 million of free cash flow in 2011.
We expect to lose most of this free cash flow in 2012.
The exact amount will of course depend on the exact timing on when these deals close.
Let me stress that the divestitures are tied directly to our disciplined investment process.
We are freeing up capital that can be redeployed in higher growth businesses.
We continue to have a strong pipeline of small tactical opportunities which we will consider to supplement our organic revenue growth.
For this reason we expect free cash flow from ongoing operations to grow between 15% and 20% next year -- or this year I’m sorry while reported free cash flow which includes disposal is forecast to grow 5% to 10%.
As I previously said free cash flow is the most important metric for us to determine our ability to create value for our shareholders while also fueling reinvestment back into the business.
We are not satisfied with our 2011 performance and we are redoubling our efforts across the organization to ramp up free cash flow growth in 2012 and beyond.
But despite a disappointing 2011 free cash flow performance this remains a highly cash-generative business with stable recurring revenue streams and a robust capital structure which enables us to return significant amounts of cash to shareholders while reinvesting for growth.
This morning we increased the dividend by $0.04 and we remain committed to maintaining and growing dividends as an important component of shareholder return.
Last year we also repurchased 11 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $326 million.
We have returned approximately $7 billion to shareholders since 2005 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
As we progress with our dispositions in 2012 we will continue to consider the best use of proceeds including reinvesting in our businesses and share repurchases.
Now let me finish where I started.
The 5 points on this slide are what we are focusing on each day.
It won't be a quick fix but we are already making progress and importantly our customers want us to succeed.
Yes the environment will likely continue to be challenging but the more dynamic and changing the environment and the more complex the regulations the more value we can provide to our customers.
We know the challenges ahead but we are confident we can meet them.
And with that let me turn it back over to Frank.
Thank you Stephane and that concludes our formal remarks.
And now we would like to open it up for questions so if I could ask the operator to give us the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of Michael Meltz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have one clarification on the guidance and then a question for you.
Just the revenue guidance for 2012 does that anticipate -- does that just assume acquisitions already done or is there some other expectation of acquisitions to come in there? That essentially is the projection for total revenues so it does include the acquisitions that we've already completed today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jim just a bigger picture question on free cash flow priorities.
What's your view on acquisitions going forward relative to what the company's done the past few years in terms of just general free cash flow priorities? I think we have had a very disciplined strategy around what we're going to do with our cash and we look for all opportunities to create the greatest long-term value for shareholders.
I think we will continue to favor the kind of tactical acquisitions that we've made over the past couple of years that strengthen the long-term growth engine of the company.
I think you can see we've continued to maintain our faith in the cash-generative ability of the company.
We believe that the dividend is an important part of the value for our shareholders and we're committed to that as well.
And we're going to keep all options open and all tools available to make the smartest decision at that point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And should we expect continued portfolio repositioning in terms of other divestitures? I think we've announced the significant things that we can see.
There will always be some tweaking around the edges of our portfolio.
I think that's just a fact of life.
I do not anticipate major portfolio shifts at this time.
Our next question will come from the line of Suzi Stein at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about what you're seeing competitively in Markets? And if you can distinguish what you're seeing by region that would be kind of helpful.
And also can you just update us on your plans to divest the Healthcare business? Sure.
Why don't we tag team that and I'll talk about what we’re seeing competitively and then I’ll ask Stephane to provide an update on where we stand with the Healthcare divestiture.
I think we're seeing a very very competitive environment out there.
I think we're seeing customers really the large banks around the world and then particularly everyone in Europe right now rethinking their businesses and re-evaluating what the competitive landscape looks like.
I think that makes for product-by-product real hand-to-hand combat in terms of the selling process.
But I also think that as our customers are thinking through major structural changes in their environment that the kinds of conversations that they're now entertaining are pretty encouraging to me and the level of conversations that we're having about providing a variety of solutions are encouraging.
So to the extent that we can be part of the solution in a changing environment the more encouraged that I am.
So there's a great deal of change out there no question but that change also produces opportunity.
I have to say I particularly like our position on the regulatory front and all the work we've been doing the past few years to strengthen our regulatory content and tools.
And as you all know the one place the big banks are spending more money and the one place they're still hiring is around regulation and compliance.
Stephane? Yes.
And Suzi in answer to your question regarding the Healthcare divestiture.
We did announce that we were suspending the process a few weeks ago and that really was a reflection of the fact that the market conditions have changed dramatically from the time we announced the divestiture of that business.
Interestingly the business has performed quite well last year actually exceeding the projections we had included in the offering memorandum.
So you have kind of a big variance between the way the business was performing and the way the market conditions were evolving and we were simply not ready to dispose the business at a fire sale.
We absolutely intend to reinitiate that same process as soon as market conditions allow us to do that.
Next to the line of Tim Casey at BMO.
A couple of things.
Just a clarification the contributions from Healthcare are they included in your guidance? Tim we provided guidance on free cash flow on 2 bases.
One is the reported free cash flow which does assume a small amount of contribution from the businesses that are announced for disposals and one on the ongoing businesses which excludes it.
All the other items in the guidance do not include Healthcare because they only cover ongoing businesses.
I understand.
Jim could you provide a little more color on Eikon? You've talked about how it's -- you're thinking about it more as a product.
Are there -- should we anticipate any rollouts this year? Or how should we think about that product and how it's going to be positioned in the portfolio? Yes we're thinking about it as a product and it's an important part of our product strategy.
I don't want to minimize it either.
I think it's not the whole strategy but it is a gold standard product for us and you should anticipate continued rollouts of Eikon this year.
The way we're approaching it is on a sector-by-sector basis as opposed to broad universal desktop basis.
So we're going to continue to develop Eikon and develop new functionality throughout the year.
In fact we have a robust pipeline of developments that we will add to Eikon and capabilities that we will add to Eikon.
And we will introduce it kind of sector by sector where we have a functionality that will really compete strongly and compete most strongly.
So you will see Eikon rollouts throughout the year.
I do anticipate we'll see increasing number of users and we'll see increasing activity on the Eikon platform.
I think we'll largely have functionality built out by the end of the year and then we'll begin migrating customers and rolling out -- concurrently we'll be rolling out throughout the year in certain sectors and then we'll complete that rollout of products in 2013.
So you should think about Eikon as a really important part of the product strategy.
But we're not waiting until we get everything right for Eikon to put that out into the market.
We came through the door at the end of last year.
We realized that we needed to make certain we were providing our sales people with everything that they could have and our customers with everything they needed and we re-prioritized a bit of our new product development spend to make sure we had not only Eikon in the bag but also other tools in the bag that we could sell like a new and more robust version of Datastream the new Datastream Pro project that's coming out like iPad apps for -- built on the Thomson ONE backbone for investment bankers like new compliance instruments in exchange-traded instruments like a whole manner of specific products that build off of other platforms and sell into other sectors.
So where we're strong enough on the Eikon platform to lead with Eikon we'll lead.
And where our Legacy products still have advantages and where we can still build new features and functionalities into those Legacy products we'll continue to do that to make certain we have a broad array of products to sell.
We'll go next to the line of Paul Steep at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Actually it’s Scotiabank.
But I guess we'll -- Jim maybe you could talk about with Eikon the product launch date.
What's the I guess the critical element here? If Eikon was to move out or at all does that impact the outlook for the year or is it pretty much neutralized in the numbers? No I think that -- I don't think there's anything to watch for.
I think the numbers and the guidance that we've given reflects our current expectations for what the Eikon rollout will look like.
I can tell you that we have done a very good job of getting the product stabilized the customer feedback that I've heard myself has been very very positive as to the stability and the functionality.
That is a major improvement over where we were.
So I don't think you should sit back and expect that there's going to be some big bang of “Aha the major next new version of Eikon is out.” In fact you'll see exactly the opposite.
We're going to have a kind of continuous slow improvement and rollout of Eikon sector by sector as it's fit for purpose.
And if anything we will go more slowly behind our marketing efforts right? We're not going to lead with marketing.
We're not going to lead with hype.
We're going to lead with beta releases into customers make sure we're ready make sure we're fit for purpose and then follow it up with the marketing and sales efforts behind it in that order as opposed to the other way around.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just to clarify as well anything near term on the sales changes in terms of any implementation risk related to just timing of getting the teams back up to speed? I don't see it.
And as I say I have been with more salespeople over the past 2 and a half weeks than I have ever been with in the regional meetings as well.
And I think the sales team -- the energy is really solid in the sales team.
I think that in many ways what we did was to undo some of the issues that we had in the execution of the last reorganization and we put people who have been closer to customers and for whom those relationships are pretty strong kind of back into position to represent the company.
So I feel very very good about where we are in the sales organization right now.
I feel particularly good about the leadership that we've got in that sales organization.
We have salespeople leading our sales teams again and they're down to basic blocking and tackling.
And always as a general manager you have to temper your enthusiasm when you come back from the rah-rah sales conferences.
But I tell you it's really good to feel that rah-rah spirit again in the troops because that's not the way we were executing last year.
We'll go next to the line of Brian Karimzad at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first one would be can you give us some color on some of the dynamics in U.S.
Legal that you think are lean deceleration given you had a good WestlawNext rollout and it sounds like you've been getting pricing on that.
So aside from print curious if there’s been some competitive dynamics going on.
And then on the parts that you can't control in Markets can you give us a sense for how net sales have been shaping up over the last couple of months and some of the conversations you're having and kind of conservatism that you've baked in all those factors you can't control in the revenue outlook? Well perhaps we should tag team that because I think Stephane will have some more granular observations.
But let me start generally with Legal.
I don't think we've seen any material change in the broad dynamics in the Legal sector.
I think the fourth quarter was surprisingly soft across the board.
If you look at what Legal demand -- what was happening with Legal demand I think everybody was a bit surprised.
But it just reflects I think the level of economic activity that we're seeing across lots of sectors of the economy in the fourth quarter of last year.
For us it manifested itself as Stephane pointed out in that core legal research particularly on the print side particularly in U.S.
state and local governments who are big consumers of print.
It manifested itself in a weak core research environment in the U.K.
in difficulties in Spain which are not surprising.
We did not see massive swings in the competitive dynamic.
However it's playing out as it has played in the last couple of years and I think it really just continues to encourage us to pursue the strategy we've been pursuing for the past several years which is to broaden the value proposition that we bring at the law firms and to bring our legal and regulatory solutions toward the buy side of this market into general counsels into corporations and into other areas and consumers of legal and regulatory information.
So no big dramatic dynamic changes there.
We expect going forward that our growth will be led by that 60% of our business that's not core legal research that Stephane was referring to earlier.
Stephane? Yes.
And let me then cover the other question you had Brian which was about net sales in the financial services industry.
And as Jim mentioned net sales were clearly negative in the second half of last year and that obviously creates a negative momentum for revenues as we enter in 2012.
I think what's going to be quite important is to look at the momentum and the trend of net sales over the course of 2012.
And what will be critically important it's not so much what the overall average level of net sales will be in the year but more what the run rate is as we exit the year because that's what's going to be critical as we enter in 2013.
And what we are expecting is a gradual improvement in net sales over the course of the year.
We'll go next to the line of Matt Chesler at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on free cash flow just to get my arms around the trends you're seeing there.
So it sounds like the markets declined DSOs.
What was the impact on the fourth quarter? Do you think that those recover along with net sales? Or is there anything you could do operationally to accelerate and stabilize those? Okay.
Matt it's Stephane.
I'm going to try to address this.
There were several factors that impacted free cash flow negatively last year and most of them were really concentrated in the working capital category which in aggregate ended up dragging free cash flow down by about $240 million.
As I mentioned the first point that we experienced was about 3-day deterioration in our DSO.
And the biggest impact was in Markets.
And frankly in previous years we have managed to achieve progressive improvements in our DSO but 2011 went the other way.
And that's a reflection both of the fact that there is a difficult market environment also a reflection of the fact that we are actually introducing some new order-to-cash systems across the businesses.
And that always has a temporary negative impact on DSO.
Now I certainly would not want you to think that we will be able to reverse that trend in a major way because there's further introduction of this order-to-cash process across the business coming over the next couple of years but it's an impact that we're obviously going to try to mitigate very very closely.
The second point I mentioned is higher cash taxes and this was as I said largely attributable to higher taxable income in '11 but also to the settlement of prior tax issues.
And finally the last big item was the impact of the disposals and that's why we've tried to provide you with guidance on free cash flow both on an ongoing basis and also on a reporting basis to try to help you measure us on both metrics.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of -- Jim I think you had talked about your corporate goals for Eikon by year end.
It sounds like you're leading more operationally than with sales but you're also expecting a significant increase in active users.
What's the baseline that you've got in your mind? And kind of what are the ranges you’d consider a success for you if you've accomplished at the end of the year? I'm not doing it based on seats.
It's hard for me to sit here and say to you that I want to go from our baseline of roughly 15 000 users today to x thousand users at the end of the year.
I think that number will be materially higher significantly higher.
But we're not targeting just the number of seats.
What we're targeting is sector by sector where we can add real functionality and go in and make a real difference for customers and not just be in this race of terminal to terminal to terminal but how do we incorporate that into the total value proposition that we give to our customers.
We are expecting to see material improvement in the number of terminals out there and in the levels of usage and also in our customer satisfaction.
But at this point I'm not comfortable sharing kind of terminal-based targets rather we're going at it sector by sector.
We'll go next to the line of Drew McReynolds at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just hopped on the call so I apologize if you've covered this one off.
Just Jim a little bit of an obscure one for you.
Obviously there's a lot of noise out there on kind of the RIC codes and obviously with the EC investigation around that.
Just wanted to kind of get from you how important or relevant is this issue how important is it to keep this proprietary to yourselves.
And we obviously know competitors are trying to muscle in.
Just get a lot of questions on this so I just wanted to get the right perspective from you guys in terms of the relative importance of maintaining these codes as proprietary.
Well the RIC codes are important to us.
There's no question about that.
They're an important part of the fabric of the symbology that we’ve built and that tie us into all of our kind of underlying infrastructure.
My hands are a little tied at this point about how deep I can go.
As you know we have proposed a solution to the regulators.
They have concluded their market testing and they have not gotten back to us as to the conclusion of that market testing.
So I sure don't want to say anything today that's going to be obviated by our ongoing discussions or that's going to put us in a position where we are telling you something that's different from where we are.
So I just have to be in a bit of a quiet period about this.
I'll just say they're very very important.
We think we’ve proposed a reasonable solution that would allow us to license those out in a very fair way and more to come when we hear the ultimate resolution of that case.
We'll go next to the line of Sara Gubins at Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping that we could get some more details about your expectations for 2012 across the segments.
I'm guessing that you're expecting Professional to continue to grow and perhaps for Markets to shrink given the negative net sales.
And any commentary you can give around margin expectations by segment? Sara as you know we don't really provide like segment-related guidance.
We prefer to do that at the corporation's level.
And -- but I think that you can deduct from the guidance that we've provided and the recent performance that we do in general I can say we do expect the Professional the x Professional businesses to continue to do well.
And we do expect that in the Financial &amp; Risk business we're going to see a gradual improvement in net sales but that improvement in net sales is not going to translate immediately in revenue growth in 2012.
That's something that's obviously going to have a lag because of the subscription nature of the business.
And so we have modest expectations for Financial &amp; Risk in terms of revenue growth in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And perhaps any color on the margin front particularly on the Markets side? I would give you the same comment.
I mean the -- what we’re going to try to do in Financial &amp; Risk as Jim stated the #1 priority is to reignite the growth in Financial &amp; Risk.
This will require some investments in order to do that.
But as we said also we absolutely think that we can do that within the spending envelope that we have today.
So we are not projecting or expecting a bump in our CapEx spending or anything of the like but we will need to make some investments in the business in order to restart the growth engines because that's really at the end of the day what will ultimately drive growth in free cash flow and expansion in margins.
We'll go to the line of William Bird at Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about any factors that could increment margins in 2012 that aren't in guidance.
William I think -- it's Stephane again.
I think if you look at margin movements in 2012 and you're trying to look at the company's margin performance this year there's a number of factors to take into consideration.
Now obviously on the positive side we have as Jim said officially completed the Reuters integration program in '11.
And since that spend was about $215 million in 2011 you should expect that to flow through margins in 2012.
We'll also see the positive impact of the various restructuring actions that we took last year both in the first quarter and the fourth quarter.
But all these benefits will be offset by a number of factors.
The first one is the one that I think Bob used to remind you which is that until we reach an organic revenue growth rate of 3% or 4% it's going to be difficult to expect much growth on EBITDA or high margin level.
The second one are the investments I mentioned we need to make in the businesses.
But again I don't want to scare you in making you believe that there will be a significant impact on capital expenditure or margins because of the investments.
That's not the case.
I mentioned also the negative revenue mix in Legal which is about 40 or 50 basis points on the margins of Legal.
That's just the fact that I just said that their most profitable business which is core legal research is not growing.
And the other 60% is growing fast.
It has attractive margins but simply not margins that are as high as the core legal research business.
So you've got by definition a negative mix impact.
And last but not least the most important factor I think to account for on margins for 2012 is what Jim referred to.
And that's why you see I think a dichotomy between the way the EBITDA margin’s evolving and the way OI margin’s evolving it's essentially the fact that there's going to be a marked increase in depreciation and amortization expense next year.
This is obviously noncash but it is a reflection of the investment that we've made in the past.
So hopefully that helps you a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Yes very helpful.
And on the revenue guidance I know you don't want to drill down by divisions.
Can you tell us what on a consolidated basis what do you expect for organic constant currency revenue growth for 2012? I think we provided guidance that we're going to grow low-single digit and that includes a very modest impact from acquisitions that we've made last year.
We'll go next to the line of Vince Valentini at TD Securities.
I just wanted to make sure I'm clear on the free cash flow and on the disposals.
So did I hear you correct Stephane is it $250 million loss of free cash flow from all the disposals that were announced last year plus the new 3 ones today? This must be my French accent I apologize Vince.
I meant $215 million not $250 million.
2-1-5 okay.
2-1-5 yes.
And that includes essentially -- that's the entire contribution to free cash flow from all the disposals either that we've closed today or that we have announced and that are still to be closed.
Sorry is Healthcare in that when you...
Yes.
That does include Healthcare okay.
It does include Healthcare.
But you still get the free cash flow from Healthcare throughout the year until you sell it? Absolutely.
Okay.
And then on the terms of the guidance the base for a 5% to 10% growth would be the $1 602 figure from 2011 that's correct? That's correct.
And then your underlying free cash flow last year if you've taken out the integration costs which will now be 0 going forward was actually $1 888 so the 5% to 10% on top of the $1 602 you're still going to end up below what your underlying free cash flow was this year.
And I guess that's largely related to the disposals.
Is that the way to think about it? Yes.
Okay.
I guess another big point.
I mean somebody asked about working capital.
It sounds like you don't think you'll reverse it but do you think it actually gets worse? Is that what your guidance implies that there'll be even a further increase in the DSOs this year or some other working capital item? No.
I would certainly not put it like that.
We will obviously -- as I mentioned Vince free cash flow is really a key metric for us so I will tell you we will absolutely redouble our focus on free cash flow.
And in the near term this will mean following a very disciplined capital allocation process just to make sure that we direct our capital to the best opportunities that we have not simply adding up on the amount that we spend on capital in order to pursue these opportunities.
It's really redeploying in the right places more than spending more.
And on working capital I actually don't expect any major worsening trend next year.
That's certainly not the intent I wanted to give.
I mean ultimately what's going to drive free cash flow as I said once again is going to be top line growth.
And that's really what we're focused on and that's going to be the ultimate driver of free cash flow.
Okay.
Sorry for the multiple questions but depreciation and amortization can you just clarify there is there anything temporary about the -- what seems like a pretty large spike in 2012 like do WestlawNext and Eikon have some sort of sunset to it where you have accelerated depreciation upfront and then it starts to roll off in '13 or '14 or is this just a new baseline number that we should extrapolate forward? I think that depreciation and amortization as a percentage of revenue will remain high for the next 2 or 3 years.
And it will be higher than CapEx as a percentage of revenue.
What we're really focusing on because that's what we can influence today is CapEx as a percentage of revenue.
And you've seen Vince that [indiscernible] has been that essentially it’s going to remain pretty much flat.
Depreciation and amortization will remain higher than CapEx for the next 2 3 years until that essentially reflects the amortization of the big spending we've done on these large portions that you mentioned in the last couple of years.
Operator I'd like to take one final question please.
And that will come from the line of Claudio Aspesi at Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
In investor meeting in March of 2011 the old manager of Markets indicated they do not expect -- does not expect at the time the rollout of Eikon to materially improve the market share of the terminal business.
Is this changed in any way going forward? Do you have a view? Have you now looked into the business whether those goals were not aspirational enough? And the second question is related also to the Markets division.
And considering the uncertainty in the employment in the financial institutions with the significant restructurings announced are you comfortable with the cost structure of the businesses that are driven by headcount? Okay I'll try to address both of those.
And if I miss something I'll ask Stephane to jump in and correct me or support me.
Obviously the March call and guidance on markets is not something with which I'm intimately familiar other than listening to it.
I can tell you that I have pretty solid aspirations about what we're going to do going forward Claudio.
And I think that I don't really look at it as terminal to terminal and product to product and share that way.
I look at it as what are we able to provide in terms of broad solutions into various sectors and into various customer groups.
And I think one of the great advantages for us is that we can sell total solutions from desktops to feeds to middleware front office back office.
We have a broad array of products of services of solutions in multiple price points across the whole range of solutions we can provide.
So I do have pretty solid aspirations about our ability to tie that together.
How much of that is terminals and how much of that is feeds? I can't say at this point.
Our customers will determine what is more valuable.
And while I don't want to talk largely about market share because it depends upon how you define the market and you kind of go down a rat hole there I do think about our competitive position and I think about our competitive position by sector not by product.
And I think about improving our competitive position in the sectors that make the most sense for us right.
If that's an all-encompassing-enough answer for you that's the way I look at it.
We're pretty ambitious about what we're biting off and we're pretty optimistic about what our chances are.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On the cost structure? On the cost structure I think we're always looking at the cost structure.
And I also think we have very solid opportunity to improve our cost structure over time.
Two things to remember: first and foremost is the point Stephane has made.
We've got to get the revenue growth going and that's what we're focused on today that's number one; number two our greatest ability to take costs out of our cost structure come when we complete the platform technology buildout of Eikon right? And once we get that underlying technology platform built then we can begin sunsetting Legacy systems and that's where we have an opportunity I think for significant margin expansion on the back of those 2 things: one revenue growth; and two the ability to sunset Legacy systems.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question.
Did I understand correctly when you mentioned earlier however that in the replacement cycle of the old platforms you may actually go slower than you thought originally in order to make sure that the product fits what the customers need? Yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So actually what is the realistic time frame for the completion now of the sunsetting? I'll give you that time line when we have a better picture as to what it is.
I feel confident that features and functionality on Eikon the product will be largely built out by the end of this year.
There are still some significant decisions we need to make about customer migrations off of underlying platforms and the commercial implications of those that we've yet to work our way through.
We're working on them right now.
And when we have a better picture of that and we understand it we'll be happy to share that with you at that time.
So that will be our last question.
And I'd like to thank all of you for joining us today.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This conference will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time today through February 16 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 232271.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Frank Golden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report first quarter 2012 results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by Stephane Bello our CFO.
Following Jim and Stephane's presentations we will open the call for questions.
Please limit yourselves to one question each so we can get to as many as possible.
Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
In addition today's results are presented on an ongoing basis and exclude disposals announced to date including our Healthcare business.
Before we begin let me point out that on our website today you will find a small change to the Financial &amp; Risk restated financials we provided to you on April 1.
Neither the total company annual revenues nor total company quarterly figures have changed nor have the Q1 growth rates for any of the business units changed.
The changes relate solely to the allocation of revenues among the 4 Financial &amp; Risk business units based on the new structure we announced on January 1 of this year.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations department.
It is my pleasure to now introduce the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we will review the first quarter results and update you on the progress we're making toward the priorities I outlined during our year-end earnings call in February.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who will provide you with further details on the results for the quarter.
I would characterize the first quarter's results as on-track and consistent with our full year expectations.
In short so far so good.
Total revenues were up 4% as the Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science units all did a bit better than expected.
Overall Financial &amp; Risk grew modestly in what continues to be a very choppy environment particularly in Europe.
EBITDA increased 15% with healthy margin improvement.
Operating profit rose 2%.
Adjusted earnings per share in the quarter were $0.44 compared to $0.37 in Q1 2011 a 19% increase.
Last week we announced an agreement to sell our Healthcare business for $1.25 billion in cash.
We expect to realize net after-tax proceeds of about $1 billion.
The sale is not subject to financing conditions and we expect the deal to close late Q2 or early Q3.
We expect to use the proceeds for tactical acquisitions organic investment and for share buybacks on an opportunistic basis.
Lastly but importantly we are reaffirming our full year 2012 outlook.
Now let me return to our results by business segment.
This slide reflects the new organization structure I outlined last quarter.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues rose 1% and now include the Governance Risk &amp; Compliance business.
Good growth in marketplaces and GRC were offset by weakness in the trading and investor segments.
Revenues by geography saw Europe Middle East and Africa rise 2%; the Americas were up 1%; and Asia was flat due to softness in Japan.
Overall Financial &amp; Risk net sales performance in Q1 was slightly better than Q4 but it was still negative.
A modest improvement in the Americas was largely offset by a difficult environment in Europe.
As we've previously stated we do not expect net sales to turn positive until the end of the year and therefore it's important to look at the momentum and run rate trend as we exit 2012.
We are targeting a gradual improvement in net sales over the course of the year driven by service improvements new product rollouts including Eikon.
Tax &amp; Accounting had a terrific quarter with revenues up 31% 9% organic.
Growth was strong across the business.
IP &amp; Science revenues grew 4%.
Legal had a good start to the year across the board with revenues up 3% 2% organic in what appears to be a slightly better legal market environment.
We are particularly encouraged by the sales performance in our Legal and Tax &amp; Accounting units which were slightly ahead of our expectations.
We also have a good story to tell about our fast-developing global growth businesses which represent about $800 million in revenue and grew 18% in the first quarter 7% organic.
Those numbers are included within each of the 4 business segments.
In summary our businesses performed largely as expected during the first quarter.
Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science continued to perform well and we're particularly encouraged by the sequential improvement in organic revenue growth in our Legal segment which was 2% in Q1 versus 1% in Q4 2011.
Each of these businesses has a clear and compelling growth strategy against which we are executing and our progress should continue to be reflected by good growth and profitability this year.
Financial &amp; Risk is now executing against a more focused strategy as we work to deliver better products and improve the customer experience.
We've begun the task of simplifying our product offerings and we've launched several new products including Datastream Pro a new offering for investment managers which consolidates 12 Legacy desktop products and incorporates best-in-class macroeconomic content of Datastream; the Accelus Compliance Manager in GRC; a new Elektron hosting center in São Paulo Brazil; and specific versions of Eikon that are tailored to the commodities and energy sector and to the wealth management market in Asia and EMEA.
At the end of March we had over 60 000 Eikon desktops up 30% from December.
In addition to those already mentioned we continue to add Eikon desktops particularly in segments which best fit for purpose such as commodities and energy foreign exchange and fixed income and we're making solid progress in building out tools and features that will make Eikon even better in the future.
On the customer experience side in Financial &amp; Risk there's a lot of work being done to improve our service.
We've undertaken a number of tactical initiatives to improve responsiveness especially to the top 1 000 accounts.
And in select areas like Investment Management we're increasing our level of expert support.
We are making steady progress and I will have more to share with you on this throughout the balance of the year.
Now despite this progress F&amp;R is still dealing with a tepid global economic recovery and uncertainty in Europe.
RDEs are growing but that growth has slowed while the U.S.
has been showing modest improvement.
Against that external environment it's important for us to stay focused on the things in our control and that we continue to improve our ability to execute.
Let me conclude by saying that since I last reported to you on February 9 there has been no change in the big picture.
My key priorities remain unchanged and we're making good progress against them.
Our new management team is gelling well we have the right combination of ambition urgency and pragmatism to get the job done.
The vast majority of our businesses are performing well.
Our work in Financial &amp; Risk is far from done but we are making headway.
As I said a few minutes ago we are on track.
Now let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim.
Before reviewing the first quarter results I want to discuss our new organization structure and highlight 2 particular changes.
First we reorganized the business around our customers rather than products.
Now when we go to market in Financial &amp; Risk we're going out to serve traders and investors not to sell desktops or feeds.
Similarly our US Law Firm segment includes both our core legal research platform WestlawNext as well as software and services offerings such as Elite in large law firms or FindLaw for small and solo law firms.
This new market approach is better aligned with what our customers expect from us: a more integrated approach to deliver all the capabilities and assets we have.
The second change I would like to remind you of is that we moved our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance unit which was part of Legal to Financial &amp; Risk.
The intersection of regulation and finance is one of our fastest-growing opportunities.
Our strong market position in financial services combined with our deep regulatory content are unique franchise strengths that we can leverage to expand our position in these growing markets.
There is also an opportunity to integrate our Risk &amp; Compliance capabilities into our financial services products and we expect that this will further improve growth across the Financial &amp; Risk business.
Looking at the organization through this lens you can see that all of our market segments grew last year but for investors with the strongest growth coming from our Tax &amp; Accounting IP &amp; Science and Legal businesses.
And as Jim mentioned earlier we are now focused on improving the growth profile of our Financial &amp; Risk business.
With that let me turn to some of the details of our first quarter results.
Throughout today's presentation I will speak to revenue growth before currency.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In aggregate our first quarter revenues were up 4% with acquisitions contributing 3%.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 15% and the related margin expanded to 260 basis points reflecting the elimination of integration expenses and the flow-through from higher revenues.
As you may recall our first quarter results last year included $40 million of reorganization costs which impacted primarily the Legacy Markets division.
This year we incurred approximately $30 million of reorganization costs representing the tail end of the actions we announced in connection with our Q4 results.
As Jim and I stated on our year-end call we are no longer carving out those severance costs separately from our results but we want to provide you with the visibility on these expenses when we incur them.
So the year-over-year EBITDA performance is relatively comparable as the reorganization costs were roughly similar in each period.
The major difference is the conclusion of the integration program at the end of last year.
Underlying operating profit rose 2% and the underlying operating profit margin decreased 30 basis points to 17.1% reflecting higher depreciation and amortization expense from new product launches.
Finally foreign exchange had no impact on either revenues or operating margin in the quarter.
Now turning to the first quarter results for our Legal segment.
Conditions in the U.S.
legal market improved modestly in the first quarter.
Overall demand for legal services was up slightly after being down in the fourth quarter.
In particular demand for litigation services which is the largest segment in the market was up from the fourth quarter.
Legal's revenue were up 3% 2% on an organic basis.
And as Jim indicated earlier this represents a modest sequential increase from Q4 2011 when the organic growth rate was 1%.
If you break down the first quarter growth rate by revenue type subscription revenues were up 4% transactions revenues were up 7% while U.S.
print revenues were down 3%.
Now looking at the performance of our 3 subsegments in the Legal business.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions is the largest subsegment representing about 55% of the total and revenues for U.S.
Law Firm Solutions grew 2% in the quarter.
This was driven by a 12% increase in Business of Law while research-related revenues were flat versus the prior year period.
In Corporate Government &amp; Academic which is about 25% of the Legal business revenues grew 4% all organic driven primarily by the performance of our Legal process outsourcing business.
And finally revenues in our Global Legal segment which is 20% of the total were up 7% of which 4% was organic.
This was once again driven by strong growth in Latin America.
And as a reminder our Global Legal segment includes both our more mature businesses outside of the U.S.
such as the U.K.
Canada Australia and New Zealand as well as businesses in fast-growing geographies such as Latin America and Asia.
Now turning to the profitability performance in our Legal business EBITDA increased 5% and the corresponding margin was up 60 basis point helped by a favorable year-over-year comparison.
Operating profit increased 5% and the margin rose 50 basis points.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another terrific quarter.
Revenues were 31% out of which 9% was organic.
This was driven by acquisitions and strong performance across the business in particular software sales to professional accounting firms and revenues derived from our ONESOURCE platform.
This strong organic revenue growth performance reflects a healthy U.S.
accounting market as hiring is picking up at accounting firms as well as good adoption of some of our new products.
In particular we are very pleased with the success of the ONESOURCE corporate tax platform which was built over the last few years both organically and through acquisitions.
It's a great example of how we have developed a truly unique and integrated solution to better serve our customers in this case corporate tax departments by successfully integrating a number of small to mid-sized acquisitions.
This approach temporarily depressed operating margins but it is now generating significant profit and value.
And in fact in the quarter EBITDA grew 50% the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth and operating profit increased 58% with the related margin up 380 basis points to 21.9%.
Now please remember that Tax &amp; Accounting is a seasonal business with a significant proportion of its operating profit traditionally generated in the fourth quarter.
Also I'd like to point out that we believe that the first quarter is likely to be the high watermark for organic revenue growth as well as margin improvement this year.
We do expect growth in the next 3 quarters to remain strong but probably not as strong as this quarter.
Now over in IP &amp; Science revenues grew 4% of which 3% was organic.
Growth was driven by a 7% increase in IP Solutions and a 4% increase in Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research.
Life Sciences revenues declined 1% due entirely to the timing of renewals and a difficult comparison from Q1 2011.
Again let me remind you that quarterly revenue growth for IP &amp; Science can be uneven due to the impact of large sales in the Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research business namely Web of Knowledge and Web of Science.
EBITDA increased 9% with the margin expanding 160 basis points to 34.4% and operating profit was up 6% with the margin expanding 40 basis points to 26.3%.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues were up 1% with 2% contribution from acquisitions so organic revenue growth was down 1% this quarter.
Recurring revenues which represent about 76% of F&amp;R's revenues grew 1% due to acquisitions and the benefit of a price increase.
Excluding acquisitions recurring revenues were down 1% reflecting the negative net sales performance of the last several quarters.
Transaction revenues which represent 11% of the total were up 4% due to higher fixed income volumes at Tradeweb.
Recovery revenues also 11% of the total grew 2% as a result of a price increase on third-party exchange fees.
And finally Outright revenues which is 2% of the total and are essentially onetime software sales grew 9% driven by GRC.
EBITDA declined by 1% and the margin was down 50 basis points.
Excluding currency EBITDA actually increased 1% and the margin wasn't changed from the prior year.
Operating profit declined 8% and the margin declined 140 basis points to 16.7% due to higher depreciation and amortization from the new product investments.
Excluding currency operating profit declined 4% and the margin declined 100 basis points.
Now I'll briefly review the results for the individual segments within Financial &amp; Risk.
Trading revenues declined 2%.
Growth in Commodities &amp; Energy and foreign exchange was offset by desktop cancellations in Exchange Traded Instruments and Fixed Income.
Investors revenue declined 3%.
Within that business unit Enterprise Content revenues increased 16% while Wealth Management revenues declined 3% and Investment Management revenues declined 10%.
Now while this represented a decline in Investment Management revenues from the fourth quarter it is important to note that we saw a sequential improvement in net sales in the Investment Management segment from Q4 to Q1 thanks to a marked improvement in the Americas.
However market conditions in Europe remain challenging.
Revenues in Corporates were at 1% and Investment Banking revenues were flat.
Turning to marketplaces their revenues increased 10% driven by acquisitions and by Tradeweb which grew 11% organically.
And finally GRC revenues increased 16% organically.
There has been a strong interest in our new Accelus Compliance Manager product which we just launched during the quarter.
Let me now turn back to our consolidated results.
Our first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.44 per share which represented an increase of $0.07 versus the year ago period.
This $0.07 increase was attributable primarily to lower integration expenses which accounted for about $0.06 of the increase and to higher underlying EBITDA which accounted for about $0.04.
These increases were partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization of $0.03.
Finally interest and taxes had no impact in aggregate on the year-over-year increase in EPS as the increase in interest expense was offset by a slightly lower tax rate in the quarter.
Lower interest expense in Q1 was higher than in the prior period due to an accrual of interest related to tax liabilities.
So for the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance of $400 million to $425 million for interest expense as the higher accrual we took in Q1 should be offset by higher interest income we expect to receive on the proceeds from the Healthcare disposal.
Turning to free cash flow the first quarter is usually our weakest quarter from a cash generation perspective and this year was no exception.
It is not at all reflective of what we expect for the full year performance.
Nevertheless we are encouraged by the $54 million improvement in reported free cash flow and more importantly free cash flow from ongoing businesses which excludes cash flow from businesses which have either been sold or put up for sale over the last 12 months was at $100 million better than a year ago.
Half of the improvement is from low integration spending with the balance coming from an improvement in EBITDA.
As I discussed last quarter we have placed an increased focus on free cash flow across the organization.
And to emphasize this we have made a slight but important modification to the performance metrics we use in our annual bonus plan for managers.
45% of the bonus payout is now based on cash OI rather than operating profit.
And we define cash OI simply as current year EBITDA minus current year CapEx.
We believe that this change will drive an even greater focus on our capital allocation process going forward.
The other 2 components of our management intensive plan remain unchanged.
45% is based on revenue growth with the remaining 10% based on total free cash flow improvement.
Let me now briefly discuss our capital position because I think it is important to reinforce our commitment to a strong balance sheet and disciplined investment process.
Overall we ended up the first quarter with $6.8 billion in net debt and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.8.
Having a strong balance sheet and a solid capital structure is of paramount importance to us.
It gives us the flexibility to execute our business strategy and the ability to generate a consistent and attractive return of capital to our shareholders.
As Jim indicated earlier last week we signed a definitive agreement to sell our Healthcare business to Veritas for a total purchase price of $1.25 billion.
We expect this transaction to close by the end of the second quarter or early in the third quarter and to generate about $1 billion in after-tax proceeds bringing the total net proceeds from disposals completed this year to $1.8 billion.
Now we will not let this cash burn a hole in our pocket.
However we do see a number of very attractive opportunities to reinvest a majority of these proceeds across the key growth areas we have in our portfolio.
These opportunities would primarily be in the form of small to mid-sized acquisitions which we will consider over the next 12 to 18 months and which would help us support our goal to improve the organic revenue growth trajectory across our business.
This is essentially what we did across the Legacy Professional division between 2009 and 2011.
Over this period of time we spent over $2 billion in capital across the various Professional businesses.
In aggregate this capital redeployment strategy delivered solid results as demonstrated by the fact that the Professional businesses grew both revenues and EBITDA by 9% in 2011 while maintaining pretax ROIC in the mid-teens.
So in summary we will seek to redeploy the proceeds of our recent disposals in the highest areas of growth across our business and we will continue to focus on driving long-term value creation for our shareholders within the parameters of a strong capital structure.
As always we will also consider returning cash to shareholders by way of share buybacks.
And let me remind you that we have repurchased just under 12 million shares under our existing NCIB program and that therefore you should expect us to seek board approval to renew this program in May as we do every year.
This brings us to our 2012 outlook which we reaffirmed today.
For the full year we continue to expect revenues to grow low-single digits.
We also expect our EBITDA margin to range between 27% and 28% and our underlying operating profit margin to range between 18% and 19%.
Let me point out that we expect a more pronounced improvement in margins in the fourth quarter due to easier comparisons resulting from the elimination of reorganization costs and integration expenses which we incurred in the fourth quarter last year.
Our reported free cash flow is expected to be up 5% to 10% while free cash flow from ongoing businesses is expected to increase between 15% and 20%.
As Jim has said we have just embarked on a multi-quarter journey to transform this business and after one quarter we are on track.
We understand the challenges ahead but we remain confident that we can meet them.
And now let me now turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Stephane and Jim.
And now we would like to open it up for questions.
So if we could have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about the tone of conversations on contract renewals in your market data business? And are you having to negotiate more on price during this time? And I guess can you just distinguish between the tone on the buy side and the sell side? Yes I would say that this is totally what you would expect in an industry that's going across – been going through the kind of change that it's going through.
So I think everybody's concerned about cost reduction.
Everybody's concerned about kind of total cost of ownership.
Everybody's concerned about the depths of relationships that they have with various vendors.
I don't find it so much to be the kind of brutal price competition that you might expect as I find it more particularly on the largest customers to be more about how you can talk about the breadth of the partnership all right and what we can do in a holistic fashion.
So it's certainly -- every single contract is certainly a difficult negotiation these days but particularly on the sell side.
But in some ways it kind of depends upon where you sit.
The negotiations in Europe are a little bit different than the negotiations in the U.S.
are a little bit different than the negotiations in Asia because the prospects look a lot different.
The negotiations on the sell side are a bit different from the negotiations on the buy side where a lot of this disruption is creating opportunity.
So you're correct in assuming that each of the negotiations is difficult but if I have a comfort in it it's been the amount of time we spent with customers over the first 4 months of this year and how pleasantly surprised I have been about the depth of the relationship that we have with those customers and how we've been able to engage in a broad discussion with them not just a product versus product and product price feature set for feature set but rather how we could provide solutions across the range of their needs.
Remember we're in a particularly unique position where we're rather agnostic as to whether or not they place the value on desktops or feeds or other types of solutions because we have a broad array of solutions to sell.
And that's been the type of engagements we've been engaging in particularly with our largest customers.
The next question is from Drew McReynolds from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe Jim if you can just talk a little bit more about just the firming up of organic growth within Legal.
Specifically could you address pricing whether that has improved or whether you expect it to improve going forward? And just a follow-up here as you look at WestlawNext and the 65% penetration is there any change in either kind of organic revenue growth or margin dynamic as you kind of migrate the remaining 35% of that base? No it's -- look it's been -- obviously Legal is a pleasant surprise to see the strength.
As we said it's a bit ahead of our expectations.
It was driven primarily on the back of our software solution sales and those were surprisingly strong in the quarter.
But also within the quarter actually our Legal research services were surprisingly strong in the quarter.
I wouldn't want to jump in and conclude any trends from one quarter's performance right? And this was a relatively light quarter as is the next one for contract renewals or large contract renewals.
I would say that we've had some success with efforts recently to add more transparency into our pricing and to explain exactly why we charge what we charge to our largest customers and to prove the volume of our premium price position.
So I don't -- we haven't noticed any change in the dynamic.
We just had a surprisingly productive first quarter.
I hope that whole -- we hope it's a trend.
We have a question from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
I'm wondering about your acquisition strategy in trying to find the growth factors in the Financial &amp; Risk segment.
Would you say that you're still at sort of the discovery stage of that? Or have you sort of formed a pretty good idea of where you want to go and you've got a bunch of targets identified so that by the time you get the Healthcare proceeds you'll be ready to deploy that money right away? Or are these things perhaps going to take longer to gestate? Well it's really difficult Vince to predict the exact timing on acquisitions because we don't control that.
It would be safe to say that in each area in our Financial &amp; Risk business we are pursuing the growth vector right? And we are -- we've come up with a strategy and said "Here's what we need to do to grow how we're to grow what do we need to build what do we need to buy how would we know we could win in that sector." And within that strategy within each sector we would have a list of potential acquisition targets identified and we would be working that list right? The timing will be completely and utterly dependent upon when you have a seller who's willing to buy and on how the discussions progress and how promising indeed upon further investigation the synergies will actually be between a target and what we would acquire.
So we're still working that path.
That said we do have an attractive list particularly in the areas that are our higher growth areas that we're working all the time.
But that's just what we do.
As far as timing goes one can never predict.
Sometimes these things come to fruition very quickly and sometimes they take much longer but we're actively working the pipeline as we do and have done on -- certainly on the Professional side for a long time.
That's just kind of the playbook we've run before and we're running it again.
I would just add to that Vince that the pipeline is not obviously just on the finance side it's still pretty robust on the x Professional businesses too.
That's a very good point Stephane.
And it's -- as we look across and we see a number of opportunities within the growth vectors that we've already identified.
And I think just to add some color to that what you can expect is that if we deploy proceeds from this sale to an acquisition they will be in places that won't surprise you.
They will be in identified growth vectors right? Or they will be in the strongest areas of our Financial &amp; Risk business.
We have a question from the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
As you look through the year can you talk to us a little bit about how you expect the quarters to fall out? I mean you've had an encouraging start to the year and I think you're set up for an easier comp for the fourth quarter.
But what are your expectations as we go through the year and maybe a little more color on your comment about net sales improving through the year as well? I'll leave that one to Stephane.
Sure Tim.
Well obviously we provide our guidance for the full year and such.
We don't really go into too much detail with regard to the quarterly growth rates and margins.
But let me just remind you of a few items which will impact the quarterly saving of our performance.
If you look at revenue growth first we have said that we expect to grow low-single digit for the full year and the first quarter was obviously higher than that at 4% primarily due to the impact of the acquisitions that we did last year.
Now obviously the impact of last year's acquisition on the overall revenue growth rate will diminish over the course of the year which you need to factor in as you look at our performance over the remaining quarters.
From a margin perspective if you look back at last year you will know that the margins both at the EBITDA and the OI level were actually much higher in the second and third quarter than was the case in the first and fourth quarter.
And this was due entirely to timing factors.
For instance we incurred some large severance costs in Q1 and even larger costs in Q4 while there were some positive timing impact in the 2 middle quarters if you want Q2 and Q3.
And this year I'd say we would expect a more steady improvement in margins when we look at things sequentially over the course of the year with as Jim's pointed out the largest improvement likely to take place in the fourth quarter.
Now in terms of the net sales trajectory and I assume that you refer primarily to the F&amp;R business here as Jim mentioned we have seen a sequential improvement in net sales for F&amp;R from Q4 to Q1.
They were still negative which is absolutely what we expected.
And as we've mentioned we do expect them to only turn positive towards the end of the year which is going to be really the outcome of the upgrades we are making to Eikon over the course of the year and also to new product introductions as we go through the year.
Obviously the exact trend of the necessary improvement would also depend on the evolution of the environment in which we play and we'll watch that very closely.
As Jim said during the first quarter we did see an improvement in the Americas but that was essentially masked by a very very tough environment in Europe so we'll continue to monitor that very closely but that's essentially the trend we're expecting.
Hopefully that answers your question Jim.
We have a question from the line of William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Has the cost transparency project identified any new cost save opportunities? And just as a follow-on can you talk about just how we should think about the buybacks through the next couple of quarters? Stephane I think that's in your wheelhouse.
Yes let me speak a little bit about this cost transparency project we talked about in the fourth quarter.
Let me first say that we're making solid progress.
You remember in the prior earnings call I mentioned that we only had 25% of F&amp;R's expense base which was directly under the control of the businesses and 75% of the expense base which was managed centrally.
And as I mentioned at the time our ultimate goal is to really reverse this ratio and to end up with about 80% of the expense base either directly under the control of the businesses or managed centrally but with a very clear line of sight back to the businesses on how they can manage and reduce these expenses.
Now at the end of the first quarter we had about 40% of the expense base that was directly under the control of the businesses with another 20% in what we refer internally as the controllable expense bucket.
And what we mean by that is essentially that the businesses do not manage these expenses directly but that they have the leverage to influence them.
And to give you one example of what would fall into that bucket I would refer to real estate which is obviously an activity that we manage centrally but the cost is allocated back to the businesses based on the actual amount of space they use and the business can control that by managing their headcount or managing the amount of space that they give to everyone on their lease [ph].
So at the end of the first quarter we essentially moved from 25% of the expenses base being directly controlled by the businesses to close to 60% being either directly or indirectly controlled.
And I would say we really got to the low-hanging fruits first so the remaining 20% or so will take us another few months to sort out but we're starting to drive for more accountability by having this greater transparency.
You're going to see the result of that greater accountability really happen over the next few quarters because we just -- I mean managers of the business are really just starting to get their hands around their cost basis and so they're really going through areas of opportunities to identify saving opportunities.
Your other question really to the buyback program and as I mentioned we will continue to look at buying back shares opportunistically over the course of the year.
We bought back a fair bit of shares under the existing NCIB program.
We bought 12 million of the 15 million authorization that we have.
And so as we do as a normal course of business we will essentially ask authorization from our board to renew that program most likely at the upcoming May meeting.
We have a question from the line of Phillip Huang with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask maybe the other side to Vince's question earlier.
As you private playbook that you've used for the former Professional division to the F&amp;R unit do you see any challenges if at all in using the same strategy for the Financial &amp; Risk unit? Like for example do you see the unit as being perhaps a little bit more integrated and interdependent between each of the businesses which should make it a little bit more difficult in exiting or selling certain businesses in order to turn the entire unit back to growth? And I guess to the extent that you can answer what are some of the areas that you think may be less core to the company's overall strategy in the long term? Yes.
Well it's way too soon to talk about what units wouldn't be core to the company's strategy.
And I think you're right in identifying that those businesses are more tightly integrated than some of our other businesses have been.
However it's just way too soon to make a call as to what the differences would be.
I don't think there's a material difference to coming up with a growth plan that starts by identifying a set of customers looking at those customer needs figuring out what tools and services that they need how they need to connect with their customers and what they need to be successful and then figuring out what we've got and what we need to add.
I think that's frankly a tried and true strategy that we've deployed time and again across multiple business units.
And I think that to the extent we find interdependencies that are really really strong we can build on those and they should make us stronger.
To the extent that a business isn't benefiting from being part of us and that business unit is lagging I think that we've always been able to find ways to redeploy capital in one form or another whether that's a divestment or whether that's some form of partnership or whether that's some form of change in the profile of what we invest.
We have lots of different kinds of businesses within our portfolio.
We have those that we go aggressively for growth and invest behind pretty voraciously and we have others that we manage for cash flow and profitability for a period of time.
So we're just pretty judicious in the allocation process.
And while it might be a bit different because there are more shared fundamental data and that sort of stuff between the various units to the extent we can really tie them together on common platforms they'll be core going forward.
And to the extent we find that they do indeed sit along on their own and the growth opportunities are what they are in other growth vectors that we have we still look to divest if we came to the conclusion that we couldn't win in a particular space.
And the strategy for us has all been about identifying a customer set identifying those markets identifying what we need to win and then going hard at those places where we know we can win and getting out of places where we can't.
The next question is from Adam Shine with National Bank.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim a question on Eikon I think you were very clear on the last call back in February that look there was going to be a reformulation maybe of the strategy with respect to Eikon.
We saw I guess a modest 1 000 increase in the desktop sequentially.
So I guess the question to you is are you sort of pushing back from the sales effort on Eikon? Or I guess the flip side of that has there continued to be a degree of resistance in the market such that we should be focusing really on greater traction on Eikon maybe later in the year let alone early next year not necessarily focus on the next couple of quarters? Yes I think -- look remember we have an 8-quarter plan for Eikon for growing it out in various sectors.
And in fact you shouldn't take that.
The truth of the matter is we're getting more and more positive reception to Eikon in the market with each passing week almost.
And the features and functionalities have been improved significantly over the past several months.
We're getting good reviews and feedback on the places where it's fit for purpose.
And remember what we've done is to say "Let's take a sector-specific focus to Eikon.
Let's roll it out first." So we haven't pulled back from Eikon.
What we've done is focused the sales effort behind those places where we know we're likely to have the greatest chances of success.
And those are going very very well.
And we're also focusing on the stuff that's underneath the covers on the platform aspects of Eikon.
As opposed to Eikon being the be-all end-all product for us in our Financial &amp; Risk business as we said we've re-devoted capital resources and sales resources behind other new product launches to keep -- to get revenue going again and keep revenue flowing while we're getting Eikon fit for purpose across the sectors where we think it is most attractive.
That said the platform effort for Eikon as a platform to support our desktop products is making very very solid headway and I think we're all encouraged about where we'll be on that later in the year.
That said it is an 8-quarter implementation plan on Eikon.
There are some sectors of the business that we will not get to until next year on that plan.
I'd love to say we can get to them sooner but we're certainly not going to promise something that we can't deliver and we're sticking to our plan we're working our plan.
And the platform aspects of Eikon have never looked better.
We have a question from the line of Paul Sullivan with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the financial business.
Do you think that the first quarter will mark the bottom in trading and investors from an organic perspective? Or does the phasing of net sales mean in those 2 areas we're likely to see it sort of get a little bit worse before it starts to get better? I mean just following on from that the 140 bps of margin contraction year-on-year in financial do you think that's as bad as it gets? Paul it's Stephane.
On your question regarding the growth trend in investor and traders in the first quarter I would remind you that essentially we had very negative net sales in the second half of last year.
And essentially the full impact of these negative net sales has not yet flowed through.
You’re going to see it essentially for the ensuing 12 months.
So I would be essentially expecting that you're still going to see weakness in the growth rate of these segments and we're going to see improvement once we get to a better let's say picture which we've started to see in Q1 as we just mentioned.
And in terms of the margin like progression for F&amp;R I think you're going to see probably fairly steady margins over the course of the year for F&amp;R.
Your next question is from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm just wondering if you can drill a little deeper into the trading unit growth or lack of growth the decrease of 2% in the quarter.
I mean Commodities &amp; Energy foreign exchange were strong.
You had cancellations in ETFs and Fixed Incomes.
And can you sort of flesh out how that might look in the next couple of quarters? No I don't think we want to go into that level of details frankly.
This is getting very very granular.
Research Division</strong> Well the desktop cancellations and the ETFs is that a trend that's accelerating or do you think that's going to level out? I think what you're going to see is essentially probably an improvement in the areas where we are – where Eikon is fit for purpose as Jim said so areas like foreign exchange or Commodities &amp; Energy are already showing improvement.
Fixed Income is probably the next area that's fit for purpose.
So I think that the progression of net sales in across all of the F&amp;R business is really going to follow the progression of how we -- of how Eikon becomes ready and fit for purpose in each of these segments.
Yes.
If I might make -- might just add that -- and I'm just going to add a qualitative comment to this not a quantitative one because I agree completely with Stephane that just to make quarter-by-quarter predictions on the trending of that level of guidance is something that we just don't want to get into.
I will say qualitatively that I look at the sales pipeline and I look at the sales closed and the sales reports every single day in a graphic chart form and at the beginning of the year there was a heck of a lot more red and a couple of little green poking into the greens with the red being bad and the greens being good.
And today we're as Stephane pointed starting to see more and more of the categories kind of tick over to the green right? And at some point that's also part of the playbook which says focus behind the places where you can be strong and where you can win drive those and hopefully some of the big reds start to slow down and that's when we'll hit the tipping point.
But we are seeing improvement but it's moving category by category where we -- not surprisingly where we have a winning hand in terms of content and features.
Our next question is from Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions please.
First is on -- have you seen any impact at all of the foray from Bloomberg into the legal market? And are they starting to play in the same space or you're just not seeing them at all? And the second question is really actually on the data feed market.
Could you just maybe tell us what's going on in the data feed market and whether you think you are -- what kind of growth rates you're seeing in that market and whether you think you're gaining share or losing share against other providers? Well let me start -- do we see Bloomberg in the legal market? Sure we see Bloomberg in the legal market.
Their presence is certainly increasing.
The marketing is increasing.
They're out there more.
I think they issued a press release in the first quarter their first major contract.
They signed a deal at DLA Piper so they're in DLA Piper now.
And interestingly that did not displace any Westlaw use and they did not affect our contract in any way.
So we are seeing a higher profile of Bloomberg.
To date it's not a major factor in changing the competitive dynamic.
For us you can look at -- I think there are enough third-party reports out there and surveys of law librarians and users as to where that might be attractive or who's most threatened by that.
We're not seeing a material impact right now.
That said we take them very very seriously.
The acquisition of DLA certainly strengthened the regulatory content and we are taking the appropriate responsive steps to that to make sure that we remain far and away the premium provider of that kind of content.
And so it's another wrinkle to the competitive dynamic but not one that's having a major impact at this time.
We're mindful of its potential to do so in the future and are reacting appropriately.
I think it's healthy to be paranoid about all competitors.
And on the second question was that onto the data feed business we're continuing to see strong growth in the data feed business and not seeing any material changes in the competitive dynamics there.
I wouldn't want to get into detailed speculation about market share but that's been a strong business for us in the past and it continued to be a strong business for us in the first quarter.
That question comes from the line of Sami Kassab with Exane.
Research Division</strong> It's Sami at Exane BNP Paribas.
How do you -- I think you mentioned that the new sales in Legal were also a bit ahead of your expectations.
So should we therefore assume that Legal organic revenue growth is more likely to accelerate rather than decelerate in the remaining quarters? And maybe in the same vein of thinking do you see print revenues within the Legal division improving? Or do you expect the decline to accelerate from the minus 3% in Q1? Stephane? Yes I'll take that question.
As you mentioned we were encouraged by the new sales performance in the Legal business in the first quarter and also encouraged to see the organic revenue growth improve slightly sequentially.
As you've said however a quarter doesn't make a trend so we want to remain quite prudent in projecting what's going to happen going forward and it takes time to start turning around the organic growth revenue rate of a business.
We are cautiously optimistic that Q4 last year may have been the trough but we really want to see another quarter or 2 before making that claim very frankly.
And in terms of print revenues in the Legal business the print revenues -- U.S.
print were down about 3% in the first quarter and we would expect this kind of decline in the print business going forward under normal market conditions.
The attrition level tends to increase at the trough of the downturn in the legal market and then to return to a more normal level which I would call low-single digit decreases otherwise and that's really what we're seeing right now.
That will conclude our call and I'd like to thank you all for joining us this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
today running through May 8 2012 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 243743.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Second Quarter 2010 (sic) [2012] Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Frank Golden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our second quarter results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following Jim and Stephane's presentations we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
In addition today's results are presented on an ongoing basis and exclude disposals announced to date.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we'll review the second quarter results and update you on the progress we've made over the past 6 months against the priorities and strategy I outlined earlier this year.
I will then turn it over to Stephane who'll provide you with further details on the results for the quarter.
Our results for the quarter and for the first half of the year can be characterized as on track for the company as a whole.
In the second quarter total revenues were up 3% with Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science again recording good consistent performance.
In the aggregate these 3 businesses were up 7% of which 3% was organic.
Financial &amp; Risk grew modestly in what continues to be a very challenging and volatile global financial services market particularly in Europe.
EBITDA increased slightly and the margin was flat with the prior period.
Operating profit declined 8% and the margin declined 190 basis points as expected.
The operating margin was impacted by Financial &amp; Risk recording nominal revenue growth offset by planned investments in products customer service and customer administration as we work to get more product in the pipeline and to improve our service and support levels on the front and back ends.
Adjusted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.54 compared to $0.51 in Q2 2011 a 6% increase.
Also last month we closed the sale of our Healthcare business for $1.25 billion in cash and expect after -- net after-tax proceeds of about $1 billion.
As discussed during our Q1 earnings call the proceeds plus our free cash flow will be used for tactical acquisitions organic investment and for share buybacks on an opportunistic basis.
Lastly and importantly we are reaffirming our full year 2012 outlook.
Now let me turn to our results by business segment.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues rose 1%.
Growth in Marketplaces and Governance Risk &amp; Compliance were offset by declines in Trading and Investors.
Revenues by geography saw the Americas up 3%; Europe Middle East and Africa was flat; and Asia declined 2% due to continued softness in Japan.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another solid quarter with revenues up 25% 5% organic driven by strong sales of ONESOURCE and software sales to professional accounting firms.
IP &amp; Science grew 4%.
And Legal had another good quarter with revenues up 3%; 2% organic driven by Elite FindLaw and the global legal businesses including Latin America.
Finally our fast-developing Global Growth businesses grew 19% in the quarter 8% organic and now represent about $900 million in annual revenue.
For reporting purposes those GGO numbers are included within the appropriate business segment results.
If there was one word I would use to characterize our formal professional division businesses it would be consistency.
Our Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science businesses continue to achieve good results and on a combined basis recorded their seventh consecutive quarter of 5%-plus growth.
We're reaping the rewards of the investments we've made in these businesses over the past several years as we've strengthened our market position and we are achieving profitable growth.
This solid performance is the result of having had a clear strategy and playbook having a deep understanding of the markets in which we operate staying close to our customers focusing on where we can win and investing behind those opportunities has led to consistent results quarter-after-quarter.
For example while we've been rejuvenating Legal's core legal research business by investing in products such as WestlawNext we've also been investing for growth as we evolve to more of a solutions business.
This mix effect resulted in 60% of Legal's revenues growing 7% in the second quarter and improved retention rates reflecting customer satisfaction with our products.
We're working to provide a full suite of services to law firms thereby enabling them to operate more effectively and efficiently a critical objective we regularly hear from our law firm partners.
And we're doing the same thing for their corporate customers with special offerings for general counsel that help them manage their complex mix of legal matters and outside law firm relationships.
No other company's better suited to connect the entire legal community than Thomson Reuters.
Our Tax &amp; Accounting business was ahead of the curve over 5 years ago as it began to build a holistic offering for corporate tax  and accounting professionals which is our ONESOURCE product offering.
Today we're extending that leadership with growing positions in rapidly developing economies and by serving governments around the world.
And our IP &amp; Science business is executing a similar playbook as it puts some more commercial skin on its products and services.
I am confident that the acquisition of MarkMonitor will put us on a path toward an even faster-growing highly profitable intellectual property business over the next several years.
More on this in a moment.
Now let me turn to our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Year-to-date revenue performance though tepid has held up relatively well despite growing headwinds in the global financial services industry.
I'm pleased with the operational progress we continue to make.
We are controlling those things within our control and our competitive position is improving by the day.
Customers are noticing the difference.
I'm encouraged for a number of reasons.
First we now have a robust pipeline of new products being launched on time on budget and to good reviews.
Second Eikon is gaining traction up 20% this quarter and as I sit here today we're no longer selling Reuters 3000 Xtra to new clients in the FX Fixed Income and C&amp;E sectors where Eikon is our premium desktop solution.
And this withdrawal marks an important milestone in our commitment to Eikon as our primary desktop platform and we expect this story to continue across other asset classes as we deliver against the Eikon roadmap.
We're delighted that customers now see Eikon as a compelling product with a rich functionality and content.
Third customer satisfaction is up.
We've seen a marked improvement in customer satisfaction scores through the first half of the year.
Earlier this year I noted how important it was that we dramatically improve customer experience.
I'm pleased to see we're making progress.
And lastly net sales and F&amp;R continued to show improvement in Q2 though they remain negative.
So Q2 was better than Q1 and Q1 was better than Q4.
The moves we are making are having an impact where they matter most: with our customers.
But many of those customers are hurting right now.
It's fair to say the external environment is worse than we'd expected at the beginning of the year particularly in Europe and with the big global banks.
It goes without saying this makes it more challenging for us to gain good visibility.
Nevertheless we continue to work toward improved sales performance over the balance of the year.
Ultimately the external environment will determine the time line for when we return to a positive growth footing in F&amp;R.
While we remain confident in the trajectory of our business achieving positive net sales in the fourth quarter will be challenging if the market environment continues to deteriorate.
Against this backdrop we will continue to focus on the things within our control to keep close to our customers to improve our ability to execute and to focus our investments on supporting our many areas of strength.
Allow me to elaborate on what I mean when I discuss investing behind our strengths.
We recently announced our intent to acquire FXall and MarkMonitor.
Both of these acquisitions will replace -- will represent the deployment of capital in the foundational assets supporting key growth businesses such as foreign exchange and intellectual property management.
FXall is a fast-growing highly profitable business that has a leading position in the dealer-to-customer FX workflow.
It is highly complementary to Thomson Reuters' position in the interdealer and FX desktop segments.
FXall is used worldwide by over 1 300 institutional clients primarily on the buy side.
We were particularly pleased with the positive feedback from our customers following the announcement.
MarkMonitor is a leading provider of domain name management online brand protection and Internet antipiracy solutions.
Bringing together the MarkMonitor brand and domain capabilities with our existing IP management assets will give Thomson Reuters an opportunity to be a leading provider in the fast-growing online brand management space for years to come.
As I said on our Q4 call in February we will continue to shift our investment toward higher-growing segments in close adjacencies across the business.
Both of these acquisitions are prime examples of that strategy.
Let me conclude by saying that I'm pleased with the continued resilience of the vast majority of our businesses.
Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science not only are proving the reliable stable profit engines we've come to expect they're also finding ways to grow even in challenging markets.
In Financial &amp; Risk I'm pleased with the operational progress we're making.
The team is executing well against our strategy.
We continue to push for faster growth in markets and businesses where we have strong positions particularly at the intersection of regulation and finance.
Governance Risk &amp; Compliance is a $6 billion market that will continue to grow strongly over the next 5 years and there's no one better positioned to capitalize on that opportunity than us.
We will also continue to invest in fast-growing geographies managed by our Global Growth &amp; Operations group where we've built strong positions by leveraging our platforms talent knowhow and financial wherewithal and where we are achieving good success.
Nevertheless we understand that the global financial services market is likely to remain challenged and therefore we will give equal attention to the cost side of the equation and we will cut our coat according to our cloth as we work to balance our focus on growth with the imperative of maintaining profitability.
With that let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim.
As Frank indicated earlier I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In total our second quarter revenues were up 3% with acquisitions contributing 2%.
Adjusted EBITDA was up slightly from the prior year with a corresponding margin of 28%.
The elimination of integration expenses and higher revenues were offset by higher expenses in Financial &amp; Risk aimed at improving product offerings customer service and customer administration as Jim just explained.
Underlying operating profit decreased 8% and the corresponding margin was 19.3% a decline of 190 basis points due to the previously mentioned factors as well as higher depreciation and amortization from investments we've made in prior periods.
Foreign exchange had a 20 basis point negative impact on our operating margin during the quarter.
Now let me briefly discuss the second quarter results for our individual business segments starting with Legal.
Overall growth in the U.S.
Legal market remains muted yet we continue to see good growth in areas away from core legal research.
Based on our Peer Monitor Index second quarter demand for legal services moved to flat from slow growth in the first quarter.
Transactional practices such as M&amp;A real estate or bankruptcy contracted while litigation practices were broadly flat.
While we have seen a slowdown in gross sales during the quarter due to this environment this was in part offset by higher retention rates which reflect the better retention profile of WestlawNext.
We have now converted 69% of our annual contract value to WestlawNext and now on track to achieve our 75% conversion target by year end.
During the second quarter Legal's overall revenues were up 3%; 2% on an organic basis.
And if you break down the second quarter growth rate by revenue type Subscription revenues were up 2% transaction revenues were up 15% while U.S.
print revenues were down 1%.
We are expecting somewhat slower revenue growth in the third quarter due to print timing with growth rebounding Q4.
Since print is a highly profitable business this is likely to have a dampening effect on Q3 margins.
Now looking at the performance of the 3 subsegments in our Legal business.
US Law Firm Solutions which is our largest subsegment with 55% of the revenue base grew 2%.
This was driven by 17% increase in Business of Law while research-related revenues decreased 2% versus the prior year period.
In Corporate Government and Academic revenues grew 5% all organic driven primarily by the strong performance of our legal process outsourcing business.
And finally revenues in our global legal segment were also up 5% 3% organic and this was once again driven by strong growth in Latin America which was up 7% during the quarter.
So in aggregate you can see on this slide the continuation of the revenue dynamics we experienced in the last few quarters.
While revenues derived from core legal research sold to U.S.
law firms declined 2% the balance of the business representing 60% of Legal's total revenue base grew by 7% during the quarter.
And as we discussed before these revenue dynamics drive some downward pressure on margins as our decline in core legal research business enjoys higher margins than the other fast-growing businesses in the portfolio.
This is reflected in the Q2 results.
EBITDA was up slightly versus the prior year but the margin was down 60 basis points primarily due to the change in business mix which by itself caused an 80 basis points negative impact on the margin.
Operating profit was flat and the margin decreased 40 basis points.
And for the first half of the year revenue grew 3% and our EBITDA and operating profit margins were both flat.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another good quarter.
The revenues were 25% of which 5% was organic driven by acquisitions revenues derived from our ONESOURCE platform and software sales to professional accounting firms.
In the quarter EBITDA grew 22% and this was the eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth.
Operating profit increased 19% with the margin down 70 basis points due mainly to the diluted impact from recent acquisitions.
These acquisitions continue to perform well and we have high expectations for our government tax automation business.
Governments around the world are seeking ways to increase the effectiveness of their tax policies while also seeking ways to improve tax collection management by modernizing their tax information systems.
Also please remember that Tax &amp; Accounting is a seasonal business with a significant proportion of its operating profit traditionally generated in the fourth quarter.
For these reasons full year margins are more reflective of the segment's underlying performance.
The IP &amp; Science business achieved revenue growth of 4% into the second quarter all organic.
Growth was driven by a 4% increase in IP Solutions and a 5% increase in Life Sciences.
Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research revenues increased 3% driven by growth in Web of Knowledge and also publishing solutions.
Again I'd like to remind you that the quarterly revenue growth for IP &amp; Science can be uneven due to the impact of large sales in our Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research business.
EBITDA and operating margins both expanded during the quarter and for the first half EBITDA was up 7% with the corresponding margin up 130 basis points.
Now turning to our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Revenues were up 1% with a 2% contribution from acquisitions so organic revenue was down 1% in the quarter.
Recurring revenues which represent 76% of F&amp;R's revenues were flat as acquisitions and the benefit of a price increase were offset by the impact of negative net sales in the last several quarters.
Excluding acquisitions recurring revenues were down 1%.
Transaction revenues were up 4% due to Tradeweb and acquisitions which offset lower foreign exchange volumes.
Excluding acquisitions transaction revenues were down 3% organically which was in line with the first quarter decline.
Recoveries revenues were up -- grew 1% and Outright revenues were down 3%.
EBITDA and operating profit both declined during the quarter and this was attributable to 2 main factors: first the decline in organic revenues had a 100 basis point impact on margins; and second as explained by Jim earlier we needed to make some investments in new products to strengthen our pipeline and we also made investments to improve our execution capabilities in areas such as customer administration and customer service.
Let me underscore that these investments are reflected in our full year outlook.
Now I'll briefly review the results for the individual segments within Financial &amp; Risk.
Trading revenues declined 2%.
We experienced solid growth in our Commodities &amp; Energy and Data Feeds business.
However this was offset by desktop cancellations in Exchange Traded Instruments and Fixed Income.
Investors revenues declined 1% with Enterprise Content revenues up 4% offset by a 5% decline in Investment Management due to weakness in Europe and global banks.
While Investment Management is still negative this represents a sequential improvement as compared to the 10% decline we incurred in the first quarter.
Wealth Management and Investment Banking were unchanged versus the prior year period and our Corporate segment was up 2%.
Marketplaces revenues increased 6% driven by acquisitions and Tradeweb which grew 24% in the second quarter 6% organic.
Foreign Exchange revenues declined just under 1% impacted by lower transaction volumes compared to the prior year period.
Foreign Exchange volumes declined 7% year-over-year as the number of currency pairs traded in a narrow range.
And finally our GRC business continues to perform strongly with revenues increasing 18% organically.
There has been a strong interest in our new Eikon for Compliance Management product which we just launched during the quarter.
Now let me turn to our consolidated results.
Our second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.54 per share a $0.03 increase versus the year ago period.
This $0.03 increase was attributable primarily to the elimination of integration expenses and lower taxes offset by lower underlying operating profit.
Foreign exchange also had a $0.01 negative impact on EPS.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 17% and it's still early in the year so we are not altering our outlook at this time for a full year tax rate between 21% and 23%.
However based on our year-to-date experience it looks more likely that we will be at the lower end of that range.
Turning to free cash flow.
We reported an $81 million improvement in reported free cash flow for the first half of the year.
And more importantly free cash flow from ongoing businesses which excludes cash flow from businesses which have either been sold or put up for sale over the last 12 months was up $134 million or nearly 30% better than a year ago.
Approximately $100 million of this improvement came from the elimination of integration spending with the balance coming from lower cash tax payments and lower capital expenditures.
Year-to-date CapEx spending was 7.5% of revenue in line with our guidance of 7.5% to 8% for the full year.
We are pleased with our first year performance but it is not indicative of the full year.
We are reiterating our full year outlook as some of the benefits from lower cash taxes and capital expenditures are timing-related.
Now let me discuss our 2012 outlook which we reaffirm today.
We continue to expect revenues to grow low single digit.
We also expect our EBITDA margin to range between 27% and 28% and our underlying operating profit margin to range between 18% and 19%.
The acquisitions announced to date are expected to have a dilutive impact on consolidated margins this year but this impact is not expected to push us outside of our full year margin guidance which we had provided earlier this year.
For the third quarter we expect a sequential decline in EBITDA and operating margins and Q3 is expected to be the trough for year-over-year profit growth.
However as we highlighted in the first quarter earnings call we expect a more pronounced improvement in total company margins in the fourth quarter both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis due to the elimination of reorganization costs and integration expenses which were incurred in the fourth quarter last year.
Our reported free cash flow is expected to be up 5% to 10% while free cash flow from ongoing businesses is expected to increase between 15% and 20%.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank for the questions.
Great.
Thanks very much Stephane.
And operator we would now like to open the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to our first question with Drew McReynolds with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just my one question just in and around Investment Management.
Stephane you had just alluded to the sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2.
And if I look kind of back to Q4 you did negative 4% to negative 10% in Q1 and then negative 5% in Q2.
Just wondering is this certainly kind of a trend straight-line trend I think for a subscription business.
I'm just interested in the volatility from quarter-to-quarter and just was wondering whether that had to do with the kind of seasonal timing of cancellations or contract renewals.
And just a related question can you just update us on where Eikon deployment is for this segment? Sure.
On the trend for Investment Management the decline we experienced in the first quarter was probably not reflective of the trend.
It was -- the 10% decline we experienced in the first quarter was higher than the trend that you would see.
Look our focus on Investment Management has really been to work on improving the retention rate in that segment while we are building the capabilities to essentially start providing new products.
We're starting rolling out Datastream for Investment Management across the globe which before that was only confined to regions outside of the U.S.
and we're experiencing some success with that deployment.
However Investment Management is at the probably tail end of the Eikon deployment and as such in the U.S.
we do not expect to be able to deploy Eikon until the latter half of 2013.
So that obviously is going to continue to weigh on the growth rate that we see in Investment Management going forward.
And next we'll go to the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to confirm your comments about 2012.
It kind of sounds like underlying operating margin will probably be in the lower half of that 18% to 19% given acquisitions.
Is that fair? Look as I said we haven't changed the guidance but at we put the guidance forward we knew that we were going to have to do some acquisitions we would do some acquisition and we expected these to be dilutive.
So obviously as we do these acquisitions we do them in a measured way in a way that enables us to stay in the guidance but obviously that have a negative impact on margins.
But not as I said not enough to push us outside of the range.
And next we'll go to the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Stephane can you give us any incremental color on the negative net new sales in the current quarter? You said I think it was better than the first quarter but any further quantification of that? And also just any color on pace of cancellations you're seeing? Sure Peter.
We -- Jim mentioned right net sales in the quarter were still negative.
They were better than in the first quarter.
So they were -- I would say they were marginally better than in the first quarter.
So we've seen an improvement which is by itself good given the deteriorating environment that we are facing.
But the environment -- I'm sorry but the improvement is -- was modest in the second quarter as we continue to see obviously tremendous pressure from our customers in terms of headcount reductions that they're implementing and that's obviously having an impact on the number of desktop that's being sold.
So there was -- I mean Q2 was directionally better than Q1 but it was a modest improvement.
And next we'll go to the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Staying on Financial &amp; Risk given you've had negative net sales year-to-date and you're now given the macro environment fully understandable a bit cautious about getting positive by Q4.
It sounds like you'll have a negative flow into 2013.
So I'm wondering about margins in that segment.
Is there anything you can do if you continue to have flat or even negative revenues through 2013 to give us confidence that we won't see a pretty substantial drop in margins given the high fixed cost base? That's a very good question.
And I -- in my comments I deliberately noted that we were going to take a very very thorough look at '13 and that we would be very measured in balancing the need to continue to get growth with the absolute imperative to maintain profitability.
The truth of the matter is Vince that as we get better clarity into the cost base particularly in F&amp;R I see increasing opportunities for us to keep the cost structure under control and appropriate to whatever the external environment might be.
Next we'll go to the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> As you look at your portfolio in Financial &amp; Risk it seems like you're selectively making acquisitions but is there an expectation that there'll be any significant disposals to rationalize your business? And then you talked a lot about the macro environment but can you just comment on the impact that the competitive environment is having on the space? Sure.
So 2 questions there.
On the first one I think we'll pursue the same strategy that we pursued for a long long time first at the old Thomson Corporation and then at the professional division which is to work very hard to execute a growth strategy and to invest behind the places where we can win.
We have a number of those fronts we're sizing up right now.
We have a number of those initiatives we're working.
And if we can find a way to grow and a way to be really competitive in the space and a place to win we're going to invest behind it.
By the same token as we try to work a growth strategy sometimes we conclude that our resources are better spent elsewhere and we will exit those spaces and we are just in the process right now of kind of working the growth strategies across the face of the Financial &amp; Risk business.
And I would expect that we would continue to take judgments on various segments and various businesses as we have done continually over the past years on the first space.
When it comes to the competitive environment frankly as I noted our competitive position improves by the day and I think that frankly we are far better positioned competitively today than we were at the beginning of the year.
And frankly we're holding our own in a tough marketplace right now but we're holding our own with an improved position.
Next we'll go to the line of William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of just your point of view on when you're likely to hit the trough quarter for F&amp;R? And maybe you can talk little bit about just some of the insights you're gleaning from pushing corporate costs down to the business units and where you are in that process Sure.
It's hard to predict where we're going to hit the trough for F&amp;R.
It really depends on the external environment.
What I can certainly say is that we've been experiencing negative net sales now for a number of quarter.
We've seen a slight improvement in the trend of the negative sales in the last couple of quarters but we still -- obviously our revenues are still going to be impacted by the net sales performance we had in the last fourth quarter in the balance of 2012 and 2013.
So it's very hard to call the trough given the uncertainty and unpredictability of the external environment frankly at this point in time.
And with regard to your second question what you're referring to I think is the fact that we're trying to push down cost that was managed centrally within F&amp;R down to the segments of F&amp;R.
And we continue to do -- to make progress there and this is absolutely critical as we enter the 2013 budget and plan period.
We feel that we are much better equipped than we were last year at this point in time.
We have essentially now pushed down on average about 60% of the cost basis of F&amp;R to the segments and about 2/3 of that amount is controlled directly by the segments and another 1/3 is essentially managed at the center but with the levers clearly in the hands of the individual segments.
So it becomes easier for us to identify to be much more surgical in terms of looking at the customers trying to identify areas where we need to make cuts going forward.
Next we'll go to the line of Adam Shine with National Bank Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess one question on margin for Stephane and another margin question for Jim as well.
With respect to F&amp;R and the spending in Q2 related to customer service and administration Stephane are these costs that sort of reset the cost base going forward or were they onetime in nature in the Q2? And as it relates to Legal Jim you talked about a changing mix.
Was this a onetime issue as it related to the 60 or 80 bp decline in margins related to mix in Q2? Or similar to Vince's question earlier do we see margin pressure as the mix changes going forward into 2013? Let me try to take both questions starting with your question on Legal.
The mix issue is not a onetime issue.
It's essentially reflective of the change in revenue mix you see in the portfolio.
So what's happening is that we have the 60% of the portfolio that's growing at 7% has lower margins and actually these margins are improving as we gain scales in these new sectors.
But as they're like smaller segments we don't quite yet have the scale that the core legal research business has.
And so what's happening essentially is that you're seeing dynamics which are in a way positive or accretive from a growth perspective because the portion of the portfolio that's comprised of this high-growth business gets bigger and bigger.
But obviously it has a dilutive margin -- a dilutive effect on margins.
And what I mean by that is that even if the margin of each group if you want the high-growth business and the core Legal business remained the same just simply because of the growth dynamics you see mathematically a negative impact on margins.
So what our Legal business is doing essentially is 2 things: number one trying to gain scale as quickly as possible in these faster-growing businesses so that we can improve the margins there and we're essentially doing that; and second looking carefully at the cost basis in the core Legal just to make sure that we adjust the cost structure as we don't experience the growth that we used to have there.
Let me remind you this is not new phenomenon.
This is something we've been dealing with for the last -- probably for the last 3 years or so.
And we've been able in the last 3 years to do exactly what I just described meaning keeping the margins pretty robust while we are improving the top line by investing behind higher-growth segments.
So certainly not a onetime quarter something we've experienced for a while something we're going to continue to experience for while also.
Now turning to your question about the costs we incurred in F&amp;R what that is really it's a couple of things.
It's product development and it's frankly adding people to our customer administration and customer service departments so that we can improve customer experience.
This is not a onetime Q2 event.
We've -- as I said we've improved the level of service.
And so we essentially had to do that in order to improve the competitive position in the marketplace.
And as Jim mentioned we're pretty pleased to see some of the impact of these actions.
And as Jim said also as we enter the 2013 plan period we're carefully reviewing our cost structures just to make sure that we can offset these increasing costs with cost reductions elsewhere.
Next we'll go to the line of Tim Casey with BMO Capital Markets.
Could you contrast the I guess the net sales in the underlying performance in F&amp;R between Europe and North America? You highlighted that obviously Europe has got its challenges.
Is there a material difference in the performance of that unit by geography right now or is it all feeling the pain? Yes.
Look we're feeling the pain across the globe but it's clearly where we're having the largest amount of negative net sales is in Europe by a pretty large margin I would say.
But that -- and that's not surprising when you look at what's happening in the external environment.
But there is clearly like a pretty large negative drop in Europe in net sales at this point in time.
I would say I mean given our perspective net sales are about 3x more negative in Europe than they are in the Americas to give you an order of proportion.
And next we'll go to the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a question on the Marketplaces business which formally Enterprise.
Organic growth very strong in '11 mid-single digit in Q1 1% in Q2.
Is that timing? Is it -- you cited the foreign exchange-related revenue decline in the quarter so is that sort of a cyclical issue? What's going on there and what's the outlook? So Marketplace is comprised of 2 main businesses: it’s our Tradeweb business and it's our foreign exchange Dealing and Trading business.
And as I mentioned on the call Tradeweb continues to do pretty well.
They grew 6% organically during the quarter.
That's down a little bit from the growth rate that we're experiencing last year but it's still a pretty appreciable growth rate obviously.
And the foreign exchange business which really is not the Enterprise business it's something -- it's a different business the foreign exchange business as I said was down marginally just about 1% during the quarter.
And that really reflects I think mainly lower volumes that we're seeing in the market.
So I mean in terms of trends again this is a business that's very heavily transaction-driven so it's one of the reasons that's the hardest to predict for that reason.
Next we'll go to the line of Brian Karimzad with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could first give us an update on the progress of selling those 3 businesses you put on the block at the beginning of the year it was I think property tax services a law school publishing business and a little bit of Wealth Management in there? And then perhaps help us understand why the revenue in those businesses has declined about 1/2 from the $500 million first half run rate last year? Okay.
The 3 divestitures that we announced earlier this year are progressing well.
I would say we are in the final negotiation stage for those divestitures.
So we're hopeful that the 3 deals should be signed in the third quarter during this quarter.
And with regard to your second question not sure exactly what you're referring to but I think that what drives the decrease in revenues from disposals is mainly the Healthcare business which we've divested earlier in the quarter and that was obviously a much larger business that we had for the entirety of the second quarter last year and which we sold early in the quarter.
So that's what has driven the big drop in revenues.
Hopefully that's what you were referring to.
Next we'll go to the line of Nick Dempsey with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First of all just looking in the investigation into the Municipal Market Data index which you guys run I wonder if you could be in any way liable if they discover any foul play in the compilation of that index or is that not something we should worry about? And the second question just going back to net sales at F&amp;R can you remind us how you think about the lag between net sales growth and when that impact on divisional revenue growth or how precise can you be? Okay I’ll take the net sales question first Nick.
And you see that the impact of the net sales performance going through revenue over really the ensuing 12 months so it's a pretty long lag effect that you're expecting to see.
And with regard to your other question I'm going to turn it over to Jim to answer the question your first question.
Yes sure.
Obviously on a number of these regulatory fronts we get lots of questions just across-the-board on these issues and we're always very forthcoming and cooperative with all regulatory agencies or all the matters that they're investigating.
But at this point we do not believe we have any exposure at this point at all.
Next we'll go to the line of Phillip Huang with UBS.
Research Division</strong> We've seen some -- my question's on the Legal side.
We've seen some increasing softness in the U.S.
core legal market recently as Stephane had mentioned earlier particularly in litigation where it's turned flat in Q2 after 6 consecutive quarters of growth.
Do you see the challenging -- the challenges sort of persist through the remainder of the year and into next year? And also unlike the prior cycle you now have stronger growth outside of core legal I was wondering if you believe overall legal organic revenue can maintain positive growth in the foreseeable future? Well hard to predict what the litigation market will do in the U.S.
It's been -- I would say demand for legal services has been kind of I would say around flat since early -- since say the third quarter of 2009 after incurring a bigger decline for the 12 months prior to that period.
Hard to predict where that's going to go.
What we focused on is really to make sure that we don't pin our hopes for organic growth in the Legal business on our core legal research segment.
It's really -- the whole strategy was really to essentially invest heavily behind broader solutions to -- that we offer to our customers away from core legal research.
And I mean thankfully we've been reasonably successful in that endeavor and that's why you're seeing now organic growth rate for our Legal segment which are frankly above what you would expect if we -- if our business had been just constrained to core legal research and that's really what we intend to continue doing and that's how we hope to be able to continue to deliver what are attractive organic growth rates for the business relative to competitors and relative to what the market would give us if we were as I said purely invested in core legal research.
And we'll go to the line of Matt Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions please.
The first is in -- the first is actually on the Legal business.
I think the WestlawNext the usage is actually if I'm understanding rightly the usage is going down because the searches are faster.
What's going to be the pricing mechanism going forward because you used to look at how much people used the product and then sort of charge them accordingly so is there a new kind of charging model coming along? And the second question is on the Markets business is there some -- I mean obviously you're investing in some of the existing products is there something that you're working on a terminal or a product which goes beyond Eikon to sort of a next-generation product? Well I'll try to take a stab at both of those.
In the Legal business you're right.
The times spent online have gone down because the searches are dramatically faster.
They're just dramatically faster and more thorough and you get to the right answer a lot quicker.
At this point that's not changed the dynamic in any negative way.
It's in fact changed it in a positive way because what we're seeing is increased renewal rates for people who are using WestlawNext so that's a very positive thing and we also particularly over the first half of this year taken a very very strong stance in holding the line on our pricing models and we've added more and more transparency for our customers and explained to them why they're being charged what they're being charged and how much more effective the product is.
And to date that's holding and it's been quite successful and we've been quite pleased with the renewal rates of having that better product.
I do think it's safe to say that we've seen a steady decline over the last 3 years I think in our ancillary revenues of customers paying by the drink when they search outside of their plans and I think that's just again an ongoing trend and predictability is important.
So when renegotiating contracts been rolling more things into the plans and trying to provide more predictability and transparency for our customers I think that is something that's here to stay.
But to date faster search has resulted in happier customers and improved renewal rates.
So I think that's a very good thing.
As far as beyond Eikon we have a number of products in the works that I think are very very compelling.
One lesson we have learned from the past is that we're not going to be trumpeting new products before we know that they're scalable and they're ready to be released on the market so I'll keep quiet about that for now.
But it's fair to say that while we're working to roll out the current generation of Eikon making it better and better and better with each product release and while our customers are very happy with it we have no shortage of ideas for how we can continue to improve Eikon and continue to offer innovative products and services to our customers.
So we're pretty excited about the way the product pipeline is shaping up for the next couple of years.
Thanks Jim.
And that will conclude our call and we'd like to thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference call will be available for replay starting today after 10:30 a.m.
going through August 7 at 12 midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 254380.
For international participants the number is (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our third quarter results today.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following Jim and Stephane's presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
In addition today's results are presented on an ongoing basis and exclude disposals announced to date.
Now today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thanks Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Let me begin by apologizing for having to postpone our earnings release.
Like many of you we've been dealing with other critical issues related to Hurricane Sandy over the course of this week.
Our priorities were focused on the safety of our 7 000 employees in the storm's path and servicing our customers around the world.
I'm very pleased to report that all of our employees are safe.
Though many of them are dealing with personal challenges I'm incredibly proud of the way our teams worked to minimize the impact of Hurricane Sandy on our customers.
The vast majority of our products and services were unaffected by the storm and continue to operate as normal.
There was no impact to our Legal Intellectual Property Science Tax or Accounting clients.
Our next-generation financial platforms Eikon and Elektron performed well and critical services in dealing matching FXall and Tradeweb weren't affected.
We did have unexpected disruptions to a few services in a few regions primarily related to outages at data centers in New York City and New Jersey and last mile connectivity problems at some customer sites.
However those issues have been relatively few and our services were completely restored as of my last check this morning.
I want to thank our customers for their patience as we work to keep services up and running.
I'm proud of the way our people have gone above and beyond to help our customers recover and I want to thank them as well.
Now to our results for the third quarter.
Today I want to cover 3 topics: I'll begin with a review of the third quarter results; two I'll update you on the progress we've made over the past 9 months against the priorities and strategies I outlined at the beginning of the year; and three I'll discuss the progress we're making and how that progress is shaping our thinking for 2013 and beyond.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who'll provide you with further details on the results for the quarter.
Our results year-to-date can be characterized as on track for the company as a whole and in line with our prior discussions.
Let me remind you that given the nature of our business quarter-to-quarter comparisons often do not accurately reflect underlying performance of the business as compared to full year results.
As expected our third quarter results were weaker than our performance during the first half of the year due to a number of factors we'll cover in greater detail in a moment.
However we knew Q3 would be our weakest quarter this year in terms of revenue growth and that margins would decline both sequentially and period-on-period.
That said we remain on track to achieve our full year 2012 guidance.
Obviously we've not been able to fully assess the impact of the storm but given the largely recurring nature of our business we do not anticipate that the impact on our Q4 results would be material.
In the third quarter total revenues increased 1% with Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science again reporting good performance.
In aggregate these 3 businesses were up 4% lower than the first half rate of 8% and also lower than what we expect for the full year.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues were flat for the quarter in what continues to be a challenging and volatile global financial services market particularly in Europe.
As a result of the lower growth in Q3 the EBITDA and operating profit margins both declined as expected.
It's also worth noting that the year-over-year margin comparison was particularly challenging this quarter as Q3 last year was the high watermark for margins last year due to several timing factors.
Adjusted earnings per share in the quarter were $0.54 unchanged from the prior year period helped in part by lower-than-anticipated tax rate.
Let me remind you that during the quarter we acquired FXall and MarkMonitor 2 acquisitions that buttress our position in 2 foundational businesses and markets foreign exchange and intellectual property.
They're reflective of the strategy we are employing to shift revenues towards markets and businesses with higher growth prospects and where we have leading positions.
And as mentioned earlier based upon our year-to-date performance and our expectation for the fourth quarter we are reaffirming our full year 2012 outlook.
Now let me turn to our results by business segment.
Financial &amp; Risk's total revenue growth was flat for the quarter and organic revenue declined 2%.
Growth in Marketplaces and Governance Risk &amp; Compliance were offset by weakness in trading.
Investors revenue was flat for the quarter yet was its best performance since the second quarter of 2011.
Revenues by geography saw the Americas up 1%.
Europe Middle East and Africa was unchanged; and Asia declined 1% due to softness in Japan.
Tax &amp; Accounting revenues rose 10% 3% organic.
IP &amp; Science grew 3% from acquisitions and Legal's revenues increased 2% 1% organic driven by FindLaw Elite and the global Legal businesses including Latin America.
As anticipated U.S.
print revenues declined 9% impacting Legal's overall growth rate in the quarter.
Excluding print our revenues in Legal rose 5% with organic revenues up 3%.
We expect print revenues to decline again in the fourth quarter and for the full year they'll be down about 5% as the law firms continue to be very cost conscious.
And lastly our global growth businesses continue to perform very well growing 16% 8% organic.
By year end these businesses will represent nearly $1 billion in annual revenues.
For reporting purposes the GGO numbers are included within the appropriate business segment results.
So our performance thus far in the year must be viewed in conjunction with the overall global economic environment which continues to be challenging.
Large global banks continue to be under pressure to reduce costs and despite improving net sales figures over the past 3 quarters we expect F&amp;R's net sales will be lower in Q4 than in Q3 due to the flow-through for cutbacks announced at several global banks over the past few months.
That said we expect Q4's net sales to be substantially better than Q4 last year.
Despite the environment our customers are telling us they want a true partner a partner they can engage with now and one that will also be there in the future to grow with them.
We're working hard to meet their needs and we're seeing the results in improving trends.
We've also made strides in achieving greater transparency and accountability particularly in the financial risk business.
This is particularly encouraging as we put together our 2013 plans and make decisions around capital allocation and expense management.
We're also seeing a more rigorous and disciplined approach is beginning to drive results.
Streamlining administrative and commercial processes leads to simplification which leads to better customer experience and improved customer service.
For example onboarding new Eikon customers had been -- has been reduced from weeks to hours.
Customer satisfaction trends continue to improve especially with Eikon customers.
We also continue to launch new products such as Datastream Pro Eikon for compliance management and while we upgrade our customers to a more robust and user-friendly Eikon desktop.
And momentum is building with the number of Eikon customers now at approximately 26 000 up 35% from Q2.
And lastly the F&amp;R team has built targeted pragmatic metrics enabling us to more accurately measure profitability sales performance product development customer satisfaction and a variety of other items which is enabling them to make better decisions faster.
On the back of this steady progress we have great confidence in regarding what we can accomplish which enables us to state that we are expecting good performance in the fourth quarter across the company and we expect to achieve our full year 2012 outlook.
So what does this mean for the balance of the year and for 2013? Well the points you see on this slide are the 2012 key priorities I outlined earlier this year and we've made significant progress against each of them.
As we near the end of the year there's no question we are far better positioned to make informed decisions about where we should or should not allocate capital to achieve profitable growth.
And we certainly have a far better understanding of the real drivers of our business.
We're confident we can return to mid-single-digit organic growth rates by continuing our strategy of focused investment in higher growth businesses which will enable us to gradually shift our revenue mix toward these higher growth segments thereby lifting the average growth of our portfolio.
However the global financial services market is likely to remain challenged in the near term and therefore it is imperative that we continue to: one push for faster growth in markets and businesses where we have strong positions; and two invest in fast-growing geographies where we continue to have success.
This is the playbook utilized when I managed the professional division and we're now employing across the entire company and it is working.
But in my view it's not enough to focus only on the top line.
As I said last quarter and I want to reiterate again today we will give equal attention to the cost side of the equation and we will cut our coat according to our cloth to quote the saying.
As we work to balance our focus on growth with the imperative of maximizing free cash flow and profitability in 2013 and beyond we believe we can deliver attractive earnings and free cash flow growth over the next couple of years even in what is likely to remain a difficult environment from a revenue growth perspective.
With that let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim.
As Frank indicated earlier I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In total our third quarter revenues were up 1% with acquisitions contributing 2% so organic growth was down 1%.
As Jim mentioned earlier quarter-to-quarter comparisons do not always accurately reflect the underlying trends in our business.
This is why we believe that it is better to look at full year numbers which eliminates some of the noise that may affect our performance in a given quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was down 5% with a corresponding margin of 27.3% representing a decline of 120 basis points.
The benefit from the elimination of integration expenses incurred in 2011 was offset by lower revenue growth and the timing of high-margin onetime revenues in 2011 that did not repeat in 2012.
Underlying operating profit decreased 15% and the corresponding margin was 18.5% a decline of 310 basis points due to the same factors that impact EBITDA as well as higher software amortization from investments made during prior periods.
Let me remind you that both our EBITDA and operating margin performances faced difficult year-on-year comparisons as margins in 2011 reached their peak in the third quarter.
Finally foreign exchange had no material impact on our overall operating margin during the quarter.
Now let me briefly discuss the third quarter results for our individual business segments starting with Legal.
As we indicated during the second quarter earnings call we were expecting a slowdown in growth for the third quarter for our Legal business driven by the timing of print revenues.
Overall growth in the U.S.
legal market continues to face headwinds.
Yet we see good growth in areas away from core legal research.
Gross sales during the quarter were up from the second quarter and retention rates primarily due to WestlawNext remain high relative to 2011.
We have now covered 73% -- sorry we have now converted 73% of our annual contract value to WestlawNext and so we're well on our way to achieve our 75% conversion target by year end.
During the third quarter Legal's overall revenues were up 2% 1% on an organic basis.
U.S.
print revenues which accounted for just under 20% of Legal's revenues in the third quarter were down 9%.
Excluding these print revenues Legal grew 5% in the third quarter 3% organically.
In fact if you exclude U.S.
print revenues the organic growth rate for our Legal business would have been a steady 3% in each of the first 3 quarters of the year.
Let me now briefly discuss the performance of the 3 subsegments within our Legal business.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions which is our largest subsegment grew slightly.
This was driven by a 13% increase in Business of Law services while research-related revenues decreased 3%.
In Corporate Government and Academic revenues were up 1% and flat organically.
This was driven primarily by the strong performance of our legal process outsourcing business.
Now about 40% of this segment's revenue are from print which explains the lower growth rate this quarter.
Lastly revenues in our global Legal businesses were up 9% 5% organic.
And this was once again driven by strong growth in Latin America which was up 22% about half of that organic.
So in aggregate 60% of Legal's revenues grew 6% in the third quarter while the remaining 40% core Legal research sold to U.S.
law firms declined by 3% during the quarter.
EBITDA was up slightly versus the prior year and the corresponding margin was up 10 basis points.
Excluding the benefit of foreign exchange the margin declined by 40 basis points largely due to the change in business mix.
That is the decline in our highly profitable core research business and the growth in other legal businesses which have attractive margins but just not as high as in core legal research.
Operating profit was flat and the margin decreased 50 basis points.
Again excluding the benefit of exchange the margin declined 100 basis points primarily due to flow-through from lower print revenues and higher depreciation.
For the 9-month period revenues grew 3% EBITDA margin was flat and operating margin was down 10 basis points.
Now turning to our Tax &amp; Accounting business.
Revenues grew 10% of which 3% was organic.
Revenue growth during the quarter was driven by acquisitions by revenues derived from our ONESOURCE platform sold to corporations and by software sales to accounting firms.
This was offset by lower government-related revenues.
As a reminder Tax &amp; Accounting faced a difficult comparison as the organic growth rate in 2011 reached its high watermark at over 8% in the third quarter last year.
In the quarter EBITDA grew 3% and the EBITDA margin was 24.8% a 120-basis-point decline.
The EBITDA margin decline was due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions and the flow-through of lower revenues in our government business.
Operating profit decreased 8% with the margin down 230 basis points due mainly to the same reasons I've just mentioned as well as higher software amortization from acquisitions.
Tax &amp; Accounting's recent acquisitions continue to perform well and as I discussed last quarter we have high expectations from our government tax automation business.
Governments around the world are seeking ways to improve tax collection management by modernizing their tax automation systems.
Still being said government-related contracts can be lumpy in that they can be large and fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
In the third quarter government revenues declined by 13% organically from the prior year period.
So if you exclude the government business Tax &amp; Accounting's organic growth rate would have been closer to 5% during the quarter versus the reported 3% growth rate.
Also please remember that Tax &amp; Accounting is a seasonal business with a significant proportion of its operating profit traditionally generated during the fourth quarter.
For these reasons full year margins are more reflective of the segment's underlying performance.
And for the 9 month period revenues rose 22% EBITDA was up 25% and the corresponding margin was up 110 basis points.
Our IP &amp; Science business achieved revenue growth of 3% in the third quarter all coming from acquisitions.
Growth was driven by a 3% increase in IP Solutions and an 8% increase in Life Sciences.
Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research revenues decreased 6% due to strong back-file sales recorded in Q3 2011 that did not repeat this quarter.
And as we say on every call quarterly revenue growth for IP &amp; Science can be uneven due to the impact of such large sales in the Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research business.
EBITDA and operating profit both declined with corresponding declines in margins.
The uneven nature of revenue growth contributed to 200 basis points decline in EBITDA margin while the acquisition of MarkMonitor negatively impacted margins by about 100 basis points.
And as we said in the second quarter call the acquisition of MarkMonitor is expected to continue to close margin dilution next year but should rebound thereafter.
For the first 9 months of 2012 EBITDA was up 1% with the corresponding margin down 40 basis points.
Let me now turn to Finance &amp; Risk where revenues were flat with a 2% contribution from acquisitions.
So organic revenue was down 2% in the quarter.
Recurring revenues which represent about 3/4 of F&amp;R's revenue base were down 1% as the benefit from this year's price increase was offset by the impact of negative net sales in the last several quarters.
Recoveries revenues declined 1% and Outright revenues were up 2%.
Finally transactions revenues which represent about 10% of F&amp;R's revenue base were up 4% due to the acquisitions of FXall and Rafferty.
However organic transaction revenues declined 8% reflecting lower market volumes across most asset classes over the summer.
If you exclude transactions organic revenue growth for F&amp;R would have been minus 1% which is in line with the Q2 performance.
EBITDA and operating profit both declined during the quarter.
This was attributable to 2 main factors: First the decline in organic revenue had roughly 200-basis-point impact on margins; and second we continue to make investments into the business to drive customer satisfaction including product enhancement and better customer service and customer administration.
These investments are yielding tangible results as we are seeing a gradual improvement in our customer satisfaction scores.
As I mentioned last quarter these investments are incorporated within our full year outlook.
For the 9 months period revenue grew 1% EBITDA was down 10% with the corresponding margin down 230 basis points.
Now I'll briefly review the results for the individual segments within our Finance &amp; Risk business.
Trading revenues declined 4%.
We experienced steady growth in our Commodities &amp; Energy and Data Feeds businesses.
However this was offset by desktop cancellations in equity and fixed income as well as low revenues in Omgeo related to the low transaction volume environment.
Investors revenues were flat with enterprise content revenues up 12% offset by a 4% decline in Investment Management due to weakness in Europe and Asia.
While Investment Management is still negative this represents a sequential improvement as compared to the 5% decline we recorded in the second quarter and the 10% decline in the first quarter.
Wealth Management revenues were up 1%.
Banking &amp; Advisory revenues were down 1% and the Corporate business was also down 1%.
Marketplaces revenues increased 7% driven by acquisitions.
Organic revenues declined 2% in that segment due to lower transaction volumes.
For instance foreign exchange volumes declined 23% year-on-year during the third quarter as a number of key currency pairs traded in a very narrow range.
And finally our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance business continues to perform strongly with revenues increasing 17% organically.
Demand continues to be strong for our financial crime a reputation of risk products.
Now let me turn back to our consolidated results.
Our third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.54 per share unchanged from the year-ago period.
The third quarter EPS reflected lower income tax and the elimination of integration expenses which were offset by lower underlying operating profit primarily from our Finance &amp; Risk business.
Foreign exchange had $0.01 negative impact on EPS.
During the quarter we favorably concluded negotiations with tax authorities in several jurisdictions.
That resulted in the recognition of about $100 million in prior year tax benefits.
As we have done in the past we have excluded these benefit from our adjusted earnings.
But those favorable negotiations will also provide an ongoing benefit and consequently we have reduced our projected tax rate for 2012 and now expect our full year 2012 effective rate to be between 16% and 18%.
This in turn resulted in an effective tax rate of 11% for the third quarter.
So the impact of the change in the third quarter tax rate versus last year was about $0.05.
Turning to free cash flow.
We reported a $97 million improvement in reported free cash flow for the first 9 months of the year.
More importantly free cash flow from ongoing businesses which excludes cash flow from businesses we had either put up for sale or sold over the last 12 months was up $184 million or nearly 23% better than a year ago.
Approximately $150 million of the improvement came from the elimination of integration spending with the balance coming from lower cash tax payments and lower interest paid.
Year-to-date CapEx spending was 7.5% of revenue within our guidance of 7.5% to 8% for the full year.
We're pleased with our free cash flow performance for the first 9 months of the year but it is not indicative for the full year.
We are reiterating our full year outlook as some of the benefit from lower cash taxes and interest paid are timing related.
In addition the businesses which we divested over the last 12 months generated about $80 million in free cash flow in the fourth quarter of last year which we will obviously not benefit from in the fourth quarter of this year.
So let me conclude by saying that as Jim mentioned earlier we are reaffirming our full year 2012 outlook today.
The only change to our guidance relates to our quarterly effective tax rate which we now expect to be in the range of 16% to 18% for the reason I discussed earlier.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank for the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks very much Stephane.
And we would now like to open the call for questions operator so if we could have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question does come from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Legal business.
Just with respect to the print business you gave some nice granularity there in terms of the impact this quarter and what your expectations are for going forward.
Just wondering I know it's a heavily free cash flow generative business but given obviously the print world as it stands today and tomorrow would there be any plans to ultimately divest the print business just to boost your organic revenue growth rate so that folks could see the kind of underlying electronic revenue trends a little bit better? So I think that's a very interesting question.
The truth of the matter is there's still a strong demand for it.
I mean even if you look within our U.S.
Legal business where that's still about $600 million of revenue every time -- it does prove to be the most cyclically sensitive thing in our portfolio.
And every time we hit a downturn it's the first thing that gets hit but there's still a nice strong demand for print out there.
And certainly what we've seen in past cycles is that print's kind of the first thing to get hit.
And then as things improve it stabilizes and then stays at a new level.
So it's a sizable chunk of revenue and it's there because the customers like it.
So we tend to try to provide the customers with what they want so it's still an important part of the mix today.
And I think importantly the same content is produced and served up online so that's just another sales channel.
We would do the same production the same content gathering.
The only difference would be the printing expense.
And frankly it's highly profitable revenue for us.
So once upon a time -- I've been around long enough to remember the day where we used to associate all of the editorial costs with the print product and measure the incremental online sales.
We're probably in a reverse position today where we should be thinking about it and actually we do think about it centrally now.
But we should look at the incremental online print sales as something that subsidizes what we need to produce for our online products.
And our next question comes from line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim in your prepared remarks you made some comments about expectations for F&amp;R net sales to be worse in the third -- versus the third quarter but up substantially year-over-year.
I'm just hoping -- first I wanted to clarify that that's what you said.
And then second if that's right do you think that the tide has turned and that you would expect continued year-over-year growth in net sales in 2013? And if you could maybe break out trends in the U.S.
versus international that'd be helpful as well.
Let me give you the high-level view and then I'll turn over to Stephane for the detailed and more granular explanation.
We did say that net sales in Q3 were better than Q2 which was better than Q1 which was better than Q4.
So we've had 3 consecutive quarters of improvement in net sales still not in positive territory but improvement.
We do expect that net sales in Q4 will not be as good year-to-year -- it will not be as good sequentially quarter-on-quarter right? But will be substantially better than we were in Q4 of prior year.
That's because just of the number of contracts that we have in the renegotiation phase and the kind of cumulative effect of cutbacks that have already been announced in the marketplace.
So I would say overall what I feel is a great sense of momentum inside the business.
Our gross sales performance continues to improve.
We continue to feel very good in the marketplace.
I think we're far better positioned competitively.
It's just that in the near term the cutbacks at the big global banks and pressures in Europe make it difficult overall for us to get into that kind of positive territory.
As to projections about 2013 it's just too soon to say.
Although I can't imagine that we wouldn't be in a better position entering '13.
In fact I know we're in a better position entering '13 than we were entering this year.
Stephane? Yes.
And Sara let me try to give you some additional color regarding the third quarter net sales performance.
I mean from a regional perspective Europe continues to be by far the biggest the drag.
I would say over 2/3 of the negative net sales performance was really caused in -- by Europe.
But all 3 regions Americas Europe and Asia all show sequential improvement from the second quarter in the third quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Maybe I can expand on Drew's questions just to the overall portfolio of assets.
Have you continued to sort of review what may not fit with your vision going forward Jim? There's been some talk about some of the subsegments in F&amp;R including Corporate that may be on the block so I wonder if you can give us any update on your strategic thinking on other potential divestitures.
Yes.
I mean obviously as you know we don't comment on those things until we're ready to take some kind of action and that shouldn't imply that we're ready to take some kind of action.
But certainly we always take the same critical look at all of our businesses.
And I just want to reiterate we don't do that and I certainly don't do that by sitting back with an investment banking approach to it and looking at sectors by sector by sector and imagining what you might do with the portfolio.
We take the businesses that we're responsible for.
We try to develop growth plans for them.
We work really hard to see where the areas of opportunity lie.
Then we go out to prosecute those growth plans that we put together.
And where we're convinced that we can win we invest and we play.
Where we're convinced that we're not going to win we kind of get out and move on and invest behind the places where we can win.
We are at the place where we have developed those growth strategies across all of our businesses and we are at the place where we're testing those.
And I am confident that there will be some that will prove to be just as attractive as we think they could be.
And there will be some where it's going to be more difficult for us to execute or where the capital might be better applied somewhere else.
But it's just too soon for us to make that call and when we do make that call we'll let you know.
Again I don't want to pull out the -- this card too often but we are kind of 3 quarters into our first year in the role both Stephane and I and I should say it took us a huge chunk of this first year probably the first 6 months to really get a granular grounding in the expense levers inside the business and what was actually going on.
You'll recall that we've mentioned several times that in the old Markets business now our F&amp;R business about 80% of the cost base was handled in the central bucket.
We've now got a lot more visibility into that and that helps us to kind of ground our thinking on each of the segments and come up with those growth plans.
But we're pleased with the progress that we're making.
It's just too soon to talk about any impact on the portfolio from that work.
We will go to the line of Paul Steep with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Jim maybe you could talk and I guess Stephane as well about the major investment priorities in terms of product cycle heading into 2013 and what that would imply for or not for free cash flow use next year.
I guess just sort of adjunct to that for Stephane what's sort of the EPS opportunity or lift from refinancing? It looked like there's a decent amount of debt out there that could be refinanced at substantially lower rate.
Let me start with the second question Paul.
As you know we've been opportunistic in the past at looking at refinancing opportunities so it's actually -- I don't have much more to say other than we're just in the midst of our annual capital strategy review and that's obviously one topic that's going to be part of this.
So we are very conscious of the low attractive rate -- the very attractive interest rate environment that we face currently in the marketplace and we'll be opportunistic.
I mean our effective tax rate -- our effective interest rate sorry in the portfolio is reasonably low but it certainly can be lower through some refinancing activities.
So maybe more to say on this in future calls but not at this time.
Yes and as far as priorities for continued investment I think probably wouldn't surprise you that there aren't any big surprises there.
As we've said all year we've laid out kind of an 8-quarter plan for our platform migration so it's on the Eikon and Elektron and we'll continue to prosecute that.
That's been well laid out since the first quarter of this year and we're executing against it and we'll continue to execute against it.
We have scheduled releases and scheduled migration plans in place throughout all of next year.
We'll be continuing to progress along there.
If there's any chance for us to accelerate that we'll do so.
I think the -- on the legal and regulatory side of the house we have a very strong product pipeline and in fact the strongest I've seen.
We'll continue to invest behind workflow tools that -- what I like to call and talk internally about get us kind of out of the library and onto the desktops and iPads of practicing attorneys.
So we have some exciting new product that will come out in the -- and we put into our sales channels at the beginning of next year.
And we'll continue to iterate on those workflow tools.
In Tax &amp; Accounting the continued buildout of functionality both in our corporate and accounting tax solutions and also growing around the world.
As Stephane noted earlier our new government sector in Tax &amp; Accounting is more lumpy with more big sales to government than our predictable past business or legacy businesses.
But it's also about a heck of a lot of opportunity around the world and we'll continue to invest behind that.
We're seeing great growth particularly in Latin America there and I think we have opportunity to both continue to acquire in some foundational tools and content but also to build solutions for specific markets.
So I think executing against the growth vectors that we've had in professional for some time now will take priority and then completing and executing against the Eikon and Elektron roadmap in F&amp;R will take priority.
And our next question is from the line of Phillip Huang with UBS.
Research Division</strong> If I recall correctly in the 2009 cycle the then Markets division organic revenue declined for just 4 quarters and reached the trough at minus 6%.
I know it's a little bit tough given the macro environment's kind of beyond your control.
But based on your current visibility is it fair to assume that you expect the current cycle to have more of a shallow -- shallower and perhaps a briefer dip for the F&amp;R organic revenue decline? And also this quarter the organic revenue decline rate is partially impacted by the tough comps on transaction revenues.
Was wondering if you could remind us when the comps become easier for transaction revenues.
Okay let me try to take that question.
On the second part of your question first this is if I recall and Frank and Marc can correct me if I'm wrong but I think this is the weakest quarter we've had at least in the last 8 quarters from a transaction revenue perspective.
So it's a particularly tough comparison.
Organically transaction declined by 8% in F&amp;R and as I say this is the weakest performance in the last 8 quarters driven really by environment.
It's not reflective of any kind of share movement.
It's purely reflected by the environment.
In terms of the first part of your question well we had been in this last downturn now for a number of quarters.
And as you've seen F&amp;R has been able to keep the organic growth rate.
Although the organic growth rate has turned negative.
It's minus 2% now.
We're not seeing the same negative numbers as we saw earlier.
It's hard to predict what it will be going forward but I would say based on what we've seen so far and let's say the activity that we've seen so far we do not expect it to go back to the level that we've seen in prior cycles.
The next question is from the line of Adam Shine with National Bank Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim you highlighted maybe one question or so ago in regards to the evolution of the Eikon roadmap heading into next year.
Clearly it's one of your priorities.
Certainly progress was made sequentially in this Q3.
Can you talk about sort of where the inroads were achieved to drive some of the incremental Eikon desktops? And number two you highlighted earlier regarding the number of contracts perhaps up for renewal or in discussion now.
Can you maybe talk about sort of the pricing dynamic and the ability to drive sort of the annual 2% 3% price increases in the face of the market backdrop? Yes sure.
I think we made Eikon progress across the board so I mean obviously it's stronger in places where we -- where the products build out with greater capability and as we like to say more fit for purpose.
So in Commodities and Energy and FX lots of areas where we have great functionality and content kind of lead the way.
But we saw progress across the board in Eikon and behind the scenes we're continuing to make great progress in building out capabilities for other sectors and in working very closely with our customers to build out the capabilities that they need on their trading desks and on their floors and in their businesses.
So our progress in Eikon is really across the board and quite encouraging as to our competitive position.
With the second part of your question could you clarify again? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just talking about the ability to drive annual price increases in the face of the market backdrop.
It's one of the I guess surprising aspects of this time in that we are still able to command price.
And it's interesting when we look at our business going forward and it's important to keep that in mind as you model what revenue looks like volume is one thing and price is another.
And we have seen price because price is built into all of our multiyear contracts and the price escalators kick in and we have not seen significant pushback on price.
Well the discussion we've had with all of our customers has been around total cost of ownership total cost of their operations and what they're spending in totality not necessarily fixed around price.
And our team has been very focused on not giving in price concessions but rather to enter into value discussions with customers and to talk about what features functionality and services they need.
So price has held up surprisingly well in this environment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I may just push you on that.
I guess as it relates to the value of contract discussions in totality progress in regards to incremental growth or I guess that ultimately ties into net sales as we await the recovery there into next year.
Yes I'm not exactly -- I'll try to answer your question as best I can.
We do see progress -- I mean we do see progress toward growth in some sectors.
We do see progress toward growth in some customers and clients with net gains.
But today and what we anticipate in Q4 is that those will be offset by some downdrafts at a handful of very big customers who have disproportionate impact on our overall sales trends.
And our next question is from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When you say low-single-digit growth in constant currency given that we only have 1 quarter left for the year could you be more specific? Does low-single-digit growth mean kind of 2% to 3% for the year? Or does it mean really anywhere in the 1% to 4% bucket? I don't know how to answer that question Andrew.
It's -- we say low-single-digit growth.
I think it's mid-single-digit growth is clearly like 4% to 6% in my mind.
I don't know.
Low-single-digit growth is like positive but below that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair enough.
And on your FX Alliance acquisition besides for the capabilities that they were bringing it was also thought at time of acquisition that this can enhance Thomson Reuters' relationship more broadly with Investment Management clients.
Have you seen any of this derivative benefit yet? I would say it's very very encouraging early days but very encouraging.
And we open the line of Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions please.
The first is on the Legal side can you just repeat what you said about the print percentage? I wasn't sure what the universe that was.
I think you mentioned something like 20% but wondered was it 20% of what for the print business.
The second question is also on the Legal business.
Can you remind us what is the barriers to entry into the core litigation research business that you have in terms of accumulation of content? What is to prevent competitors from even if gradually building up a similar business? I think there are significant barriers to entry in that business but if you could just remind us of them that would be very helpful.
And the last question is on the tax rate.
You've guided down the tax rate for the full year this year to 16% to 18%.
Can you tell us for next year and the year after what are you going to look for in terms of adjusted tax rate? Is it going to be now below 20%? Well why don't I start and talk about the barriers to entry in Legal quickly and where we are and then I'll let Stephane follow up with specific answers to your more granular question.
We feel very good about our position in Legal.
And the barriers to entry start with a business that for more than a century has been in the legal information business but -- and one that was the first to apply technology and the first to apply really sophisticated technological tools to core legal research.
It also was before technology the first to apply and the most sophisticated at that time I guess we call it metadata in print and our key numbering system was the forerunner of kind of metadata and indexing capabilities.
And I think the thing that makes our business so sticky is just decades upon decades of interlinking.
We have millions and millions of links that between the documents that tie together the data in our vast databases and they are incredibly vast.
And it's a combination of both the technology and the human expertise that goes out and links relative legal information together so that when one searches for an answer one gets a solution whether or not -- it gets a complete range of solutions whether or not you've keyed in exactly the right kind of words or the right kind of search phrases and the search terms.
So it's a very very long history of understanding legal and regulatory content linking that together first through key numbers then by applying technology and then by applying the combination of human knowledge of the legal system and how lawyers work with that technology to build really an unrivaled ability to determine what the right answer is to a question.
So it is a not trivial advantage that we have.
Okay Matthew let me try to take the other 2 questions that you post.
The first one regarding what I said about Legal print the 20% I referred to was essentially a proportion that U.S.
print represents as a percent of our total Legal business.
So that's as Jim said I think earlier in his remarks that's about $600 million worth of revenues a year.
So in the third quarter that was about $150 million roughly.
That's what I referred to and what I said is that if you exclude that print business from the numbers the organic growth rate of the Legal business would have been a steady 3% organically in each of the last 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> So the print for a full year basis would be $600 million? Correct.
Okay? And in answer to the question on the tax rate let me give you maybe a little bit more color on what I said on the call.
As I said we did reach a favorable outcome in discussions with several tax authorities primarily in the U.S.
and Taiwan actually during the quarter.
And this has triggered 2 favorable outcomes in our Q3 results.
The first one is that it led to the recognition of a little over $100 million in what we call prior year's tax benefits.
And this obviously has no immediate impact on cash flow.
And as we always do we've removed the benefit of this tax -- what is essentially tax reserve or leases if you want from our adjusted earnings because otherwise it would have had a very distorted impact on our results.
The second impact is that these several negotiations have also allowed us to lower our estimated tax rate for the full year from 21% 23% which was our prior guidance to 16% to 18% as I mentioned on the call.
And as a result of that we really have to normalize our tax rate for the year-to-date results which is why the reported tax rate in the third quarter is only 11% and simple explanation is that essentially the third quarter tax expense reflects the impact of the lower estimated tax rate for the first 3 quarters not just for the third quarter.
And that's why you see 11% compared to the guidance for the full year that we've given of 16% to 18%.
And as I mentioned I mean the impact of the change in tax rate on a year-over-year basis was about $0.05 on the EPS.
Now if you look at '13 and beyond it's still too soon for us to provide you with a very specific projection regarding effective tax rate next year.
We're in the midst of the planning process and that I'm sure you can appreciate figuring out tax rate comes after we've figured out the operating profit we're going to have in various jurisdictions.
So we're going to need to wait until we provide our guidance in early next year to give you something more specific.
But based on the development in the third quarter I would say directionally that we would expect the guidance we'll provide to you early next year to be lower than the guidance we provide to you early this year.
Our next question is from the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Jim just on the net sales trends you've indicated they'll be lower year-over-year in Q4 but sequentially you expect growth.
I think I've got that right.
The other way around.
It's the other way around Tim.
Oh pardon me right.
Yes I got it.
Do the comps get tougher as we go into next year? I know you're not giving guidance but just directionally how do you feel about that? And then if I can sneak one other one in.
There's been some real breathless commentary in the press about your potential interest in the FT.
I'm wondering if you could comment on that.
I'll let Stephane talk about the comps because I'll take the easy one which is we never -- first of all I've read the same commentary that you've read.
I certainly haven't been the source for any of it because we just don't comment on those kinds of things.
I will say that we have lots of attractive places to invest behind our core growth initiatives today.
And we just wouldn't comment on any speculation about any acquisition opportunities that would lie out there especially of things that aren't for sale.
Okay.
So let me try to get on your question on net sales.
I think just to repeat what Jim said in his remarks what we are expecting is the Q4 net sales to not show a sequential improvement compared to the third quarter but be better than in the fourth quarter of last year.
And both in the fourth quarter of this year and last year we had several like large contracts for negotiations with large customers.
So they are somewhat comparable from that perspective but Q4 is a heavier quarter both in '11 and '12 in terms of contracts negotiation with big banks which is -- and as Jim said these banks have suffered pretty heavy headcount reductions.
So we can -- obviously we do expect to see reduction in these contracts.
When you look at next year we're not going to make any projections in terms of when net sales will turn positive next year.
But the comparison should hopefully get easier because we are certainly on overall an improving trend which is the result of all the actions that we've implemented in the last 9 months.
And our next question is from the line of Nick Dempsey with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
Just going back to core legal research I'm looking at if half of that is print and the other half is Westlaw then roughly Westlaw group's 1% to 2% in the quarter.
Now given that you've told us you're migrating quite a few customers still onto WestlawNext which you've invested in heavily wouldn't we have hoped to have a bit more price and therefore a bit more growth coming through in Westlaw? Next question just Reed Elsevier their legal investor day talked about the legal information services market growing mid-single digit in the medium term.
I just wondered if that's a number that you also agree with.
And then lastly sort of housekeeping on corporate costs those were a bit lower at the 9-month stage than last year.
Can we expect those to be down year-on-year for the full year? Or are there some phasing issues there? Let me start with the easy question the last one on corporate costs.
You can look at it on a quarter-to-quarter basis so I would keep last year's number as the basis for the full year.
There are certainly items which may impact the corporate cost from one quarter to the other.
And in terms of your first question I think that the -- if you look at Westlaw remember when we speak about core legal research we speak about core legal research sold to U.S.
law firm.
That's the 40% that we refer to.
There's also core legal research sold to other groups corporate general counsels and government in particular.
So if you look at the overall core legal research I would say print is about 1/3 of the total not half of the total but 1/3 of the total at $600 million.
And there's factors that we haven't spoke about in number of quarters but I'm sure you remember Bob [ph] and I were speaking to you about which is the fact that we have still a sizable proportion of the revenue in Westlaw that's what we called ancillary or transaction usage revenues.
And these continue to be pretty heavily impacted obviously.
They're still down in the area of like 15% to 20% every quarter and that's what's essentially dragging down the overall growth rate for Westlaw or WestlawNext.
So and I forgot what the last question was that you had.
I think it was about...
Research Division</strong> It was about the mid -- I mean on just Reed Elsevier said in the medium term a couple of years out they expected the overall market that you guys and they are in legal information services to grow mid-single digit.
I just wondered if you wanted to comment on that prediction.
Yes.
I don't think we'll take any exception with their prediction but saying that we expect the Legal -- growth in our Legal segment to be around these levels I think a lot of the growth will come from the new workflow solution products not so much from core legal research.
So there's really -- we're really seeing a transition there and we aggressively investing behind these new products that are higher growth and that's a greater proportion of revenues in the future arises from these new type of solutions.
That's how we can return to this mid-single-digit organic growth rate.
That's what we're very much focused on.
And our last question is from the line of Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on whether there was more aggressiveness in pricing in the competitive environment this quarter over last quarter? And are there certain areas maybe of F&amp;R where pricing was more aggressive? Sure.
No I don't think we saw any change in -- material change in pricing pressure.
It's been a competitive environment for a long time but there was -- I'm certainly not aware of any change in pricing policy.
Okay that will conclude our call and we do very much appreciate you joining us this morning.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be made available for replay after 10:30 this morning until November 6 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 267406.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844 and again the access code is 267406.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Results.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Frank Golden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our full year and fourth quarter 2012 results.
We will begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Now throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
In addition in order to present our results on a like-for-like basis with how you have been measuring the company against the full year 2012 outlook we've provided last February today's results include Financial Risks Corporate Service business the disposal of which is expected to take place in the second quarter and several smaller businesses.
In 2012 these businesses generated $310 million of revenue $125 million of EBITDA and $119 million of operating profit.
Our website includes detailed restatements of our 2012 results excluding these businesses and our 2013 outlook is based on the restated 2012 results.
Now today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today I want to cover 3 topics.
First I'll begin with a review of the full year results.
Then I'd like to update you on the progress we've made over the past year against the priorities and strategy I outlined 1 year ago on my first call as CEO and lastly I'll provide you with our outlook for 2013.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who'll review our results for the fourth quarter.
But first let me review our full year 2012 results.
2012 was a watershed year for us.
First and foremost we achieved our targets for the full year for revenue profit and free cash flow.
And while our net sales were lower than anticipated I am nevertheless proud of this performance.
I stated in my opening remarks on last year's fourth quarter call that if anything has been reaffirmed it's just how strong this business really is.
But 2012 will best be known as the year we turned the tide on our Financial &amp; Risk business.
More on that later but we made foundational progress that will pay off in the years to come.
The transformation of that business is well underway.
Our professional businesses continued to deliver solid results with revenues up 6% 2% organic.
The net result both the professional and financial businesses recorded improving customer satisfaction ratings and improving retention rates for the year 2 key performance indicators essential for our long-term success.
Now let's look at the full year results.
2012 revenues grew 3% driven primarily by our professional businesses: Legal Tax &amp; Accounting IP &amp; Science.
The Financial &amp; Risk business grew 1%.
EBITDA margin rose 100 basis points primarily due to the elimination of integration expenses which had been incurred in the prior year.
Operating profit margin declined primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization and the dilutive impact of acquisitions.
Our relentless focus on free cash flow led to growth of 8% with ongoing free cash flow of 20% 2 key metrics for us.
Finally adjusted earnings per share rose 8% to $2.12 from $1.96 last year.
Currency had a negative impact on EPS of $0.04.
Now as I said 2012 was a watershed year.
Despite an economic environment that proved to be even more challenging than we had anticipated and numerous operational issues needing repair we made more fundamental progress than any year I can recall at the company.
The key priorities listed on this slide are the ones I discussed with you a year ago.
It's against these priorities that I measure our progress.
We are executing against each of them.
First we've begun to restart the growth engine in Financial &amp; Risk.
In past years we were playing not to lose.
In 2013 we are playing to win and we have a robust product pipeline.
We've improved product quality and customer service.
Customer satisfaction ratings and retention rates are improving and we executed on the development and rollout of our foundational future platforms Eikon and Elektron.
In fact Eikon 3.0 was released last month to very favorable reviews and continues to build momentum with now with over 40 000 customers.
That's up from 34 000 at December 31 and 12 000 at the end of 2011.
Turning to net sales.
I think it's now safe to say that the fourth quarter of 2011 marked the trough in our net sales performance.
And while 2012 was far more difficult than we anticipated net sales did show improving momentum throughout the year.
This year we expect net sales to continue this gradual improvement and turn positive in the second half given the rollout of Eikon and Elektron.
Second we continue to shift our investment toward our highest growth opportunities.
The acquisition of MarkMonitor FXall and PLC each represent fast-growing businesses that further strengthen our position in key core markets.
Third we continue to exploit our strengths particularly at the intersection of regulation and finance.
This is one of our fastest-growing areas evidenced by the 17% organic growth turned in by our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance business last year.
We have a unique opportunity to significantly expand our position in this growing market and we are investing behind it.
And fourth we continue to accelerate development of our business in fast-growing geographies.
Our Global Growth &amp; Operations unit grew almost 20% last year 10% organic and it's perfectly positioned to build on that foundation.
Just getting better in our core markets will not be sufficient if the majority of global growth happens elsewhere.
We are working to expand our position accordingly.
Last year our professional businesses grew 6% another good performance with Legal up 3%; Tax &amp; Accounting up 16%; and IP &amp; Science up 6%.
Legal's performance continues to be resilient with 60% of that business up 6% despite continued softness in law firm revenues.
Just as impressively we have successfully maintained profitability.
This has been accomplished by balancing profit protection in core legal with the need to invest in faster growing markets and in organic new products like Concourse	and Firm Central launched last month.
As I've in before our Legal business continues to evolve from a content company that also provides some software and services into a true solutions business as we more fully integrate our core legal information with software and workflow tools.
In short our Legal business is providing customers a smarter way to work by producing unrivaled products that blend content expertise and technology.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another strong year growing 16% 5% organic.
In fact 95% of that business grew 7% organically if we exclude the government portion which is far more lumpy than our traditional professional and corporate markets.
Government was the only unit within Tax &amp; Accounting that saw organic revenues decline as the number of contracts were delayed into the coming year.
IP &amp; Science revenues grew 6% with good growth coming across the business including IP Solutions Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research and Life Sciences.
This was driven by strong subscription growth up 9% partly offset by a decline in transactional revenues down 4%.
Now to the Financial &amp; Risk business.
2012 was a year of accomplishment and setting the stage for growth.
F&amp;R revenues were up 1% with organic revenues down 1% due to the flow-through from negative net sales and the lagging subscription nature of our business.
Certainly we're not where we want to be but our relative performance in a challenging environment is a testament to the fundamental measurable progress we are making.
We've begun to deliver the transformation we promised and we expect to achieve positive net sales in the second half of this year.
Organizationally we're transforming.
The leadership team put in place 15 months ago has made great strides in changing the culture of the organization.
Clear lines of responsibility accountability and quantifiable performance measures and metrics are in place.
Operationally we're focused on simplification and we're making it easier to do business with us.
We've aligned our sales and support operations consolidated business sectors simplified our commercial policies and our billing systems moving over 40 systems onto one as an example.
And we are rationalizing our product lineup shutting down 100 legacy products last year and the vast majority of Reuters extra -- 3 000 extra desktops will be fully retired by year end.
These moves allow us to eliminate legacy technology platforms like the Bridge Network that will also be retired by year end and importantly the Eikon Elektron foundation will allow us to reset our cost base.
Technologically we are simplifying the front and back end.
Not only does this help our cost profile it also allows us to roll out new product releases much faster.
Eikon installs averaged 200 per week early into the year and averaged 2 000 per week in December.
That's a big reason why the 34 000 Eikon customers at year end were up nearly 3x where we entered the year.
And earlier this month we launched Eikon 3.0 the most advanced version yet which has been very well-received by customers.
And lastly financially there is far more rigor transparency and discipline in the financial business than there was a year ago.
This gives us a much better understanding of the cost structure across the business and the levers we can pull to improve profitability.
In fact we will reduce the number of positions in F&amp;R by about 2 500 by the end of this year.
And we expect to spend about $100 million for severance cost predominantly in F&amp;R in the first quarter.
This will enable us to hold EBITDA margin in 2013 including the onetime cost of the program.
And it positions us for far greater improvement in 2014.
These are not easy decisions but our cost structure has to meet our customers' requirements.
Now let's turn to the year ahead.
We are entering 2013 with far more confidence and a much stronger foundation than we had a year ago.
The internal perspective it's like night and day.
We are in a different place.
The external environment continues to be challenging but it feels more stable than a year ago.
I said last year that our journey would entail a multi-quarter turnaround.
Well we're halfway through that process.
Financial &amp; Risk focused strategy is enabling it to better meet its customer needs through a much better aligned single open platform strategy to reduce its cost structure and fund the improvements to Eikon and Elektron and to continue to win in our core businesses like Foreign Exchange Commodities &amp; Energy Fixed Income Enterprise Content and Governance Risk &amp; Compliance as well as in emerging geographies.
That's why I'm confident that sharper focus improved products and better execution will lead to continuing improvement in customer satisfaction ratings higher retention rates and gradually improving net sales in 2013.
Moreover gradually improving sales in 2013 will lead to better revenue dynamics in 2014 while the bottom line will also benefit as we continue to shut our Legacy systems.
Now several times you've heard me use the phrase we'll cut our coat according to our cloth as we work to balance our focus on growth with the imperative of maximizing free cash flow and profitability.
We entered 2013 having done just that.
Despite the onetime cost of rightsizing in Q1 we're targeting the whole EBITDA margin and free cash flow for the year.
And I'm confident that these actions position us to achieve more attractive improvement in profits earnings and free cash flow in 2014.
Now for our 2013 outlook.
First we forecast our revenues will grow low single digit for the company as a whole with reported growth hampered by the lagging subscription nature of our business.
That means last year's negative net sales in Financial &amp; Risk will flow into the revenue line this year.
Second adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to raise between 26% and 27%.
We are targeting to hold it flat with 2012.
Third our underlying operating margin is forecast to range between 16.5% and 17.5% as our depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about 9.5% of revenues.
Stephane will have more to share on this in a moment.
Fourth we forecast free cash flow to range between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion despite the $100 million severance charge and the loss of about $140 million in free cash flow from disposed businesses in 2012.
Lastly given our strong capital position and our confidence in the cash-generating capacity of the company this morning we announced a dividend increase of $0.02 per share to $1.30 per share.
This marks the 20th consecutive annual increase.
Before I turn it over to Stephane let me point out we've scheduled an Investor Day on March 22 in Toronto that will focus exclusively on F&amp;R and we'll highlight the progress we've been making there.
I hope to see many of you at that event.
Thank you and now over to Stephane to discuss the fourth quarter results.
Thank you Jim and it's a pleasure to speak with all of you today.
Last year I began by setting out the priorities for how I would lead the finance organization.
What I said at the time is just as true today.
It is imperative that the finance organization provides the leadership control and transparency to support our businesses on the front line everyday.
We made good progress in 2012 executing against these priorities but there is obviously still more to do.
Simplification is a key focus and includes simplification around processes products systems and even businesses.
Jim spoke earlier about some of the accomplishments made last year by our financial business.
The progress we have made both with regard to simplifying our product platforms as well as our back-office systems including moving the majority of F&amp;R on one order to cash system.
We are driving a similar simplification effort across professional businesses.
For instance Legal has been rolling out a more simple and transparent pricing structure for its core research product and we've also launched an initiative aimed at consolidating over 240 different order-to-cash systems across professional into 1 single system by 2016.
We launched this initiative last year in our IP &amp; Science business and we expect to implement additional deployments in other businesses this year.
These are just some examples of the simplification initiatives we are pushing throughout the organization.
Today there is also greater transparency into the financial business.
About 75% of its costs are now controllable and visible to the segment managers who have the authority and accountability to make the day-to-day decisions required to help drive F&amp;R forward.
Collaboration has also improved.
Where we see opportunities we are more effectively leveraging assets across the company to drive growth.
This is best reflected in the success of our global growth organization working closely with each of our 4 business segments include 19% 10% organic last year.
Restoring our growth engine in F&amp;R has been our #1 priority.
We have made tangible progress by driving a more focused organic and inorganic capital allocation process.
As Jim mentioned we are encouraged by the positive momentum we are seeing but F&amp;R's revenue growth performance in 2013 will be lower than in 2012 due to the lagging impact of our net sales performance.
For 2013 we expect better net sales than in 2012 which should lead to an improving growth performance in 2014.
And lastly today we reported ongoing free cash flow growth of 20% and reported free cash flow growth of 8%.
This performance is a direct result of our heightened focus on what we consider to be the most important metric to measure the financial success of our strategy.
Now as Frank indicated earlier I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
Reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
In addition for comparability purposes with our previously reported results throughout 2012 today's results include the corporate services business in F&amp;R and several small businesses which we have sold or in the process of divesting.
This makes sense from a 2012 reporting perspective given that these businesses were included in the guidance we provided 1 year ago and also because we managed these businesses throughout last year.
However these businesses are excluded from our 2013 guidance.
And at the end of my presentation I will provide a walk from our 2012 reported results to the 2012 restated results which excludes the disposals and also reflect a couple of accounting changes we must adopt under IFRS.
So turning back to our fourth quarter results.
Revenues were 2% due to acquisitions.
Organic revenues were unchanged from the prior period.
EBITDA was up 11% with the margin up 28.2% representing an increase of 240 basis points.
The margin improvement was primarily driven by the benefit of lower integration expenses and severance cost than incurred in 2011.
Underlying operating profit increased 2% and the margin was 19.6% up slightly.
For the full year revenues rose 3% to $12.9 billion due largely to acquisitions.
Organic growth was flat.
Full year EBITDA increased 5% with the margin up 100 basis points driven by the same factors which impacted the fourth quarter's performance.
Underlying operating profit declined by 5% with a decline of 130 basis points in margin.
Now a new metric I would like to speak about is EBITDA less CapEx or as we refer to it internally cash OI.
This is a key metric we use to drive additional focus internally on the capital intensity of our business.
Starting in 2012 cash OI along with revenue growth and free cash flow were the 3 metrics used in our annual bonus plans across the company.
And last year cash OI was up 7% and the related margin rose 110 basis points versus the prior year.
We like cash OI because it treats both OpEx and CapEx investments equally.
Any cash investments hits this metric immediately whether you capitalize or expense the investment.
So the increase of 7% in our 2012 cash OI relative to the 5% EBITDA growth is a reflection of lower CapEx spend last year which was exactly what we were hoping to achieve with this new metric.
Let me now spend a moment on another way to review revenue across the company.
As you can see on this next slide over 75% of our business segments delivered positive revenue growth last year.
The 5 segments which experienced declining revenues were all in the financial business.
Equities and Investment Management experienced the biggest declines.
These are also the sectors for which we are introducing more functionality with Eikon in 2013.
We did so in the first quarter for Equities and Investment Management will be upgraded later in the year.
Finally we will exit our Corporate Service segment in the first half with the sale of that business to NASDAQ.
And if we aggregate the green portions of the pie for the F&amp;R business they represent about 60% of F&amp;R's total revenues and grew 6% last year.
The professional businesses grew 6% and actually they were 8% if we exclude U.S.
print which is a good performance overall.
Now let me review the fourth quarter results for our individual business segments starting with Legal.
Now as we discussed in prior earnings calls growth in the U.S.
legal research market continues to face headwinds yet we continue to deliver strong performance in areas away from core legal research.
We have now converted 76% of our annual contract value to WestlawNext and close to 47 000 legal professionals are now WestlawNext customers.
During the fourth quarter Legal's overall revenues were up 2% 1% on an organic basis.
U.S.
print revenues which represent about $600 million in annual sales were down 5%.
So excluding U.S.
print revenues Legal revenues were 4% in the fourth quarter 3% organic.
For the full year Legal revenues were up 3% out of which 1% was organic and again excluding U.S.
print revenue for Legal grew by 5% 3% organic in 2012.
EBITDA and operating profit increased for the fourth quarter and for the full year with margins expanding slightly for both periods.
Our Legal business continues to prudently manage its cost base in core legal research as margins for the other faster growing businesses continue to improve as they gain scale.
Let me provide a bit more color on this.
Out of Legal's total revenue base of $3.3 billion 40% or about $1.4 billion consists of core legal research sold to U.S.
law firms.
For perspective that percentage was closer to 50% back in 2008.
The remaining 60% of Legal's revenues grew 6% both for the fourth quarter and for the full year which reflects the success we have had in diversifying the business over the past 4 years by investing in faster growing geographies and higher growing adjacent markets.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions which is our largest subsegment at 54% of the total increased by 1% for the full year driven by a 12% growth in business of law services offset by a decline in research-related revenues of 2%.
In corporate government and academic revenues were up 3% for the full year 2% organic.
This was driven primarily by the strong performance of our legal process outsourcing business.
And finally our global legal revenues grew 8% for the full year out of which 5% was organic and this was once again driven by a very strong growth performance in Latin America which was up 18% in 2012.
Now on the prior slide I spoke about how we have been diversifying our Legal business over the past 4 years from what used to be a very research-centric business towards what we refer to as a true solution business in which our legal content is enhanced through broader software and service offerings.
This strategy rested on a deliberate capital allocation process which saw a fairly significant shift over the last few years and this slide speaks to that point.
Our U.S.
core legal research business sold to U.S.
law firms including both online and print represented 49% of Legal's total revenue base back in 2008.
The other 51% of our revenue base back then included businesses such FindLaw Elite our corporate and government business as well as our global businesses outside of the U.S.
These businesses in aggregate grew by 7% per year on average over the last 4 years both through acquisitions and fast organic growth.
As a result these other businesses went from representing 51% of a revenue base in 2008 to representing a forecasted amount of 61% in 2013 and we expect that shift to continue over the coming years.
I mentioned at the start of this year we began allocating capital to these higher growth sectors 4 years ago.
As you can see on this slide the proportion of our capital investments going towards these higher growth segments has increased dramatically from 39% in '08 to a forecast 62% in 2013.
Importantly our Legal segment has been able to a higher level of investment in its growth businesses while at the same time reducing total CapEx as a percentage of revenue from 7.6% in '08 to about 7.2% this year.
Our early focus on WestlawNext kept us at the forefront of legal research innovation and its success now enables us to deploy more capital to the promising growth areas that had been and will continue to drive growth over the next 5 years.
The product of these investments is starting to show up as we introduce new software-based products this year including Concourse and Firm Central a new generation of powerful matter-centric workflow tools.
We applied an even bigger focus on growth sectors in our acquisition spending.
Legal completed over 50 acquisitions over the last 4 years including PLC which just closed.
Out of the amount we spent on these acquisitions 97% has been in high-growth segments 52% in growth sectors and 45% target towards international expansion.
We are confident that continuing to focus our investment in these areas will enable us to meet and anticipate our customers' needs as we continue to build on a century-long legacy of innovation by connecting our unrivaled legal information with new software and service solutions in entirely new ways.
Let me now turn to the results of our Tax &amp; Accounting business.
For the quarter revenues were 4% but organic growth was only 1% unusually low for this business.
This is explained by the fact that a strong underlying performance by 95% of the business was matched by a lumpy government contract revenue flow and a difficult period-on-period comparison.
Government revenues which represent about 5% of Tax &amp; Accounting revenues declined over 50% during the fourth quarter versus the year-ago period.
The remaining 95% of the Tax &amp; Accounting business grew 6% organically in the quarter.
This lower-than-expected growth was nearly entirely due to the slowing of government-related contracts and the signing of a large government software sale in Q4 last year that did not reoccur this year.
Let's look at this more closely on the next slide.
For the full year revenues grew 16% 5% organic and full year organic revenue growth was 7% excluding government and speaks to the growing global Tax &amp; Accounting market and the demand for our products.
On this slide you can see how well each of the other segments performed for the year.
Corporate revenues were up 18% 10% organic.
Professional grew 18% with organic growth of 8% and knowledge solutions was up 9% with organic growth of 4%.
On the other hand government organic revenues were down 29% in 2012.
Now turning back to the reported numbers.
In the fourth quarter EBITDA declined by 4% and EBITDA margin was 37.3% a 260-basis-point decline.
Excluding government EBITDA grew 9%.
Fourth quarter operating profit decreased 6% and the operating margin declined by 300 basis points.
Excluding government net margin increased 30 basis points.
Full year EBITDA growth was 13% as margin declined 40 basis points.
If you exclude government EBITDA growth was close to 20% which would have translated into an EBITDA margin improvement of more than 100 basis points for the full year a strong performance.
Full year operating profit increased 10% and the margin declined 100 basis points.
And once again excluding government the margin would have increased by 100 basis points.
The long-term prospects for our government tax automation business remain positive so we are not changing our long-term strategy in that space just because of timing issues in any given period.
Now turning to IP &amp; Science.
Revenues grew 12% in the fourth quarter with organic growth of 3%.
Growth was driven by our Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research business which was up 7% organically and bio life science business which was up 6% all organic.
Revenues in our IP Solutions business were up 20% primarily driven by the MarkMonitor acquisition.
Organic revenues were flat for the quarter primarily due to weak transaction revenues in our trademark business.
For the full year IP &amp; Science revenues grew 6% of which 3% was organic.
Now subscription revenue growth was very strong for the year but transaction revenues were softer than expected and you can clearly see this dynamic on this next slide.
Given the weaker global economy customers are focused on controlling their discretionary or transaction spend.
For IP &amp; Science full year 2012 transactional revenues represented about 25% of the total and these revenues declined by 4%.
On the other hand subscription revenues which represented about 3/4 of the total continued to perform well growing 9% out of which 5% was organic.
And in fact organic revenue growth for IP &amp; Science subscription revenues has been in the mid-single digits for the last 6 quarters.
IP &amp; Science's EBITDA and operating profit both increased for the fourth quarter.
However EBITDA and operating margins declined due to the dilutive impact of the MarkMonitor acquisition.
And for the full year EBITDA grew by 2% with an 80 basis points decline in margin while operating profit declined by 1% with a 150 basis point decline in margin.
Let me remind you that we have previously said that the MarkMonitor acquisition would have a dilutive impact on EBITDA margins in 2012 and 2013 but is expected to become accretive in 2014.
Turning to Finance &amp; Risk the fourth quarter revenues were up 1% with 2% coming from acquisitions.
As such organic revenues declined by 1% during the quarter.
Recurring revenues which represent about 75% of F&amp;R's revenue base were down 1% as the benefit of this year's price increase was offset by the impact of negative sales -- negative net sales over the course of the year.
Recoveries were flat and Outright revenues which together accounted for 13% of total revenues were up 9% led by our GRC business.
Finally transactions revenues which represented 12% of the total were up 12% due to acquisitions of FXall and Rafferty.
Organic transaction revenues declined by 1% reflecting lower market volumes versus last year.
Fourth quarter EBITDA and operating profit both increased as F&amp;R benefited from tighter cost controls and lower reorganization costs that were incurred in the prior-year period.
EBITDA margin and operating profit margin expanded 150 basis points and 70 basis points respectively.
For the full year revenues also grew 1% with 2% from acquisitions and a 1% decline in organic revenues.
EBITDA was down 7% with the margin declining 140 basis points and the operating profit was down 13% with the margin down 220 basis points due to the declining organic revenue and a $50 million increase in depreciation and amortization versus the prior-year period resulting from new product launches.
Now I'll briefly review the results for the individual segments within our financial business.
Trading's fourth quarter revenues declined 3%.
The Commodities &amp; Energy and data feeds and Elektron Managed Services businesses were all up.
However this was offset by desktop cancellation in Equities and Fixed Income and lower revenues in Omgeo related to lower transaction volumes.
Investors revenues were flat for the quarter.
Enterprise Content and Wealth Management revenues were up 9% and 5% respectively.
Banking &amp; Advisory was flat and Corporate Services declined 3%.
Lastly Investment Management revenues declined 7% due to the flow-through from negative net sales.
Marketplaces revenues increased 11% driven by acquisitions and organic revenues were flat.
And our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance business continues to perform strongly with organic revenues up 18% in the quarter and 17% for the full year.
Demand continues to be strong across the business.
Lastly a small housekeeping item.
In 2013 all of our $1.4 billion of FX-related revenues will be managed and recorded in Marketplaces.
Our restated results on our IR website reflect this change of moving about $550 million of revenues from Trading to Marketplaces.
Foreign Exchange is a strategic priority for us and we have the assets to provide a powerful integrated offering that is a winning end-to-end proposition for the market and our customers.
Now let me turn back to our consolidated results.
Adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.60 per share up $0.06 from the prior year primarily due to the elimination of integration expenses and higher underlying operating profit.
These 2 factors contributed to an $0.08 increase in EPS.
This was partially offset by higher effective tax rate this quarter versus a year ago 12% compared to 10%.
Our full year 2012 adjusted EPS was $2.12 per share up $0.16 versus the prior year driven again by the elimination of integration expenses incurred in 2011 and offset by lower operating profit.
These 2 factors combined have a positive impact of $0.08 on full year EPS and the balance of the full year of this increase was primarily due to lower tax rate.
And finally currency had a $0.04 negative impact on full year EPS.
Free cash flow for the full year increased 8% in line with our guidance of 5% to 10% growth and we are particularly pleased to report that free cash flow from ongoing businesses increased by 20% and was at the top end of our guidance of 15% to 20% growth.
The year-over-year improvement was primarily attributable to the elimination of integration spending lower cash taxes and our increased focus on cash OI as we described earlier.
Let me now turn to 2013.
We thought that it would be helpful to provide a walk from our 2012 actual results to our 2012 restated results and we will use these restated results as the basis for our 2013 outlook.
So moving from left to right on this slide.
We first remove disposals.
The numbers in that column reflect primarily the impact of our corporate services business which we sold to NASDAQ.
There are also several small disposals across the business which make up the balance.
In aggregate these divestitures have an $0.11 per share impact on our 2012 results.
For perspective we expect to generate gross profit of about $0.5 billion for these businesses which we will collect in 2013.
We then have 2 required IFRS adjustments.
The first is the removal of $19 million or $0.02 per share related to joint ventures that must now be accounted for as equity investments.
This relates principally to our equity interest in Omgeo.
The second adjustment is a noncash pension accounting change that became effective on January 1.
Under the new rules the return on pension assets must be computed using a rate of return equivalent to a portfolio comprised of high-quality corporate bonds with the same interest rate used to discount the pension liability.
This results in a net decrease to pretax income of $111 million or $0.10 per share after tax.
Because we are also reclassifying the net interest component of our pension expense to interest expense this results in an operating profit for 2012 being reduced by $48 million and restated interest again noncash increasing by $63 million.
Due to these changes our 2013 results will be lower than we would otherwise have reported.
A bit more on free cash flow and our expectations for 2013 having now just walked through our restated financials for 2012.
As Jim mentioned earlier we expect to incur about $100 million of severance cost this year and divestitures executed in 2012 and 2013 would also continue to negatively impact free cash flow in 2013 as shown on this slide.
This negative impact occurs as we only receive cash flow from the businesses during the period of the year in which we own them.
And as you can see cash from disposed businesses is forecasted to drop by about $140 million in 2013 from $180 million to $40 million.
Now the exact timing of when these sales close will determine their ultimate contribution.
Despite this negative impact of $240 million we are targeting free cash flow to be in line with 2012 coming somewhere between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion.
This effectively implies that we are also targeting another year of strong improvement in the free cash flow from our ongoing businesses more than covering the $100 million in severance cost we will be taking.
As I have said before free cash flow is the most important metric to track our ability to create value for our shareholders while also fueling reinvestments back into the business and returning capital.
In 2012 we made good progress but there is far more to accomplish and we will continue to increase our efforts across the organization to ramp up free cash flow growth.
Now Jim has already provided our outlook for 2013 for most of the metrics on this slide but there are 3 items I'd like to address.
First we expect our depreciation and amortization expense to increase by about $100 million from the 2012 level reaching approximately 9.5% of revenues.
This is primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization related to Eikon Elektron and software amortization from acquisitions.
As a result our underlying operating margin is expected to range between 16.5% and 17.5% down from last year's 17.7% restated number.
These are noncash costs embedded in our balance sheet primarily for past investments that we have no ability to alter.
However what we can control and what we focus in the organization on is our cash OI performance i.e our EBITDA minus the CapEx investments that we are making this year.
As I said earlier cash OI was up 7% in 2012 as we increased our focus on managing capital investments.
Our CapEx as a percentage of revenues was 7.6% in 2012 and we expect a similar performance in 2013 with a lower level than we experienced back in 2009 2010 when CapEx as a percentage of revenue was closer to 9% on average.
As stated earlier we have turned the focus of the organization more squarely on this cash metric and the impact on our D&amp;A expense will become visible in future years but not yet in 2013.
Second interest expense is expected to range between $470 million and $490 million and this projected range includes the noncash component related to the required IFRS pension accounting adjustment.
This means that cash interest expense will be about $60 million to $70 million less than total interest expense.
Cash interest expense is expected to be similar to 2012.
And third we expect our effective tax rate to range between 11% and 13% for the full year.
Now I'd like to remind you that this effective tax rate understates the amount of cash taxes we paid.
In other words our cash tax rate was higher than our effective tax rate over the last couple of years which is mostly attributable to the fact that the number of noncash expenses we booked under IFRS including pension expense and the $620 million amortization expense for intangible assets related to acquisition activity are not deductible from a cash tax perspective and this explains why we paid higher taxes than our effective tax rate may imply.
So in conclusion let me share with you the key priorities I presented to my finance team last month for 2013.
First driving for growth remains our top priority and we will continue to do this organically and through tactical acquisitions.
To achieve this we will keep shifting our revenue mix from mature businesses to higher growth businesses as we have successfully done in our professional business for several years now.
Second we are aggressively focusing on our cost structure as we seek to cut our cloth according to our plot to use James' now famous expression.
In the year ahead we will continue to look for ways we can streamline costs and increase free cash flow by making improvements to our infrastructure that can deliver meaningful savings.
And lastly we continue to simplify our systems and processes across the organization.
We made some early progress in 2012 but there's more opportunity to simplify and reduce costs.
And as Jim said we entered 2013 in a much better place than we were a year ago and we are on track with regard to our turnaround efforts.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Stephane and Jim and that concludes our formal remarks.
So we would now like to open the call for questions.
So Shannon if we can have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the $500 million in proceeds.
Stephane is that net of tax? These will be gross proceeds.
There would be some tax implication but we expect it will not be humongous.
So the net proceeds will end up being somewhere between $400 million and $500 million Drew.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just my real question here Jim can you just talk a little bit more about the migration plan on to the Eikon platform post-2013 once all of Eikon is rolled out then? We're just trying to understand with some of your kind of major accounts what that migration timeline would look like? Yes look our plan is to migrate as fast as possible as fast our customers are willing and able to move.
I think we're going to be in really good shape to do that and as evidenced by our ability to onboard the dramatic uptick in that.
I don't think we're going to have any gating factors once we get all the platform build-out completed this year.
I think the only gating factor will be how quickly our customers can move and how much internal build they have to do and internal modifications they have to do to move on to the new platforms.
But I think that's going to be a relatively rapid uptake dictated by how quickly the customers can move.
I can tell you that in our discussions particularly since the launch of Eikon 3.0 there's pretty solid and unified excitement out there in the customer base and an appetite to move it even more quickly.
So I feel pretty confident that that will move the pace.
The next question is from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> There are a lot of moving parts in 2013 and I'm wondering if you can help us with the quarterly progression of revenue margins and the earnings throughout the year.
Sure Sara.
I'm going to take that question.
We would expect that revenue growth will improve throughout the year with the first half being the lowest point due essentially to the flow-through from negative sales in 2012 in Financial &amp; Risk.
The F&amp;R net sales in the first half of 2012 were quite a bit weaker than in the first half of 2011.
Well if you look at net sales in the second half of last year while still negative they were slightly better than in the second half of 2011.
So that's why you should see an easier year-over-year comparison as you look at revenue growth on a year-on-year basis and that's why revenue growth should improve throughout the year.
Now if you look at EBITDA margin they should also improve sequentially throughout the year with Q1 probably being the low point because of the severance costs that Jim referred to and which we have included in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately just as I think about net sales and F&amp;R turning positive in the second half what does that mean for underlying organic revenue growth for us now in 2013 into '14? How long is the lag between that turning positive witnessing positive growth in F&amp;R? I would say if we manage to hit our expectations of turning positive in -- turning net sales positive by the end of the year that would mean we enter 2014 with good momentum in net sales.
And you got to remember that the net sales performance does not include the price increase we get every year.
So we can have slightly negative net sales and still be able to generate flat to slightly positive revenue organic growth rate.
So because net sales were quite as I said negative in 2012 I would expect potentially a revenue decline for F&amp;R this year.
But if we ended the year with a positive net sales momentum that should turn back to positive growth in 2014.
The next question is from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Questions also on net sales a couple of different angles.
I guess if you're expecting the first half to be negative can you just confirm if January was negative? And any commentary on how it would have fared versus January last year? And secondly your confidence that you'll have net sales pick up and be positive in the second half of the year can you give us a little more color what drives that? Is that new products that you're rolling out or is conversations you're having with customers about their demand and appetite or just some more color to give us some sense of how you have that confidence at this early stage in the year? Yes so Vince on your first question net sales were still negative in January but they were if I recall they were a little bit better than last year.
And then on your second question...
Yes I'm happy to answer that.
I mean what drives our confidence really is the -- a couple of things is the momentum that we've built throughout the latter half of last year the improvement in our customer satisfaction scores and the reaction to the Eikon 3.0 rollout.
It's very strong.
We're still in the midst of rolling it out to sales forces around the world but I can tell you that in our early sales conferences we've got a pretty enthused sales organization out there because of the quality of the product and we want to demo all of that capability to everyone on the call if you haven't seen it.
But on March 22 we'll go deeper in that at our Investor Day and I think that's what will show you why we have the confidence.
It's on the back of the improvements that we made in the product the improvements that we made in the service for both Eikon and Elektron.
We will tell both of those stories at our Investor Day.
And just maybe one thing I would add to that if I may Vince.
As you have said that the product is more competitive which would help if you want growth start improving but also as you introduce a better product retention rates should gradually improve over the course of the year.
And that's what -- if you recall that's what we really have seen with WestlawNext.
So we expect to see a similar performance for Eikon and Elektron.
Our next question comes from the line of Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just directionally if you had to split out your growth in Legal over 2012 how much was from pricing and how much from taking market share? And then also in Q4 I guess there are a couple of positive data points with regard to demand for Legal services and rates.
And so I was wondering if you're viewing the outlook for the legal industry a bit better than it was in 2012.
Toni it's Stephane.
The overall demand for Legal services in 2012 remained pretty weak as it was in 2011 so where we think the growth in our Legal business is really what I tried to describe earlier which is in these new service and software solution that we provided.
That's really the segment that's growing.
Core legal research is declining across the board.
And essentially the game here is to move as quickly as possible our revenue mix away from core legal research and into these new services.
If I can give you a little bit more specificity I would say that within core legal research the piece that's declining the fastest is obviously the print business.
And as I described U.S.
print revenues account for about $600 million of the revenue base in Legal.
And if you were to exclude U.S.
print revenues from our numbers if you look at the growth of everything else including online research and the solution businesses Legal's organic growth rate has been between 2.5% and 3% every single quarter last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have any color on pricing versus taking share? I think on where you see that share is mainly on core legal research.
I don't think there's massive share movements between LexisNexis and ourselves.
We are obviously the 2 key players.
I don't think there is much happening in terms of share one way or the other.
And as I said overall revenue growth rate are actually declining in that business I think for both of us.
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about the Eikon platform launch from a couple of weeks ago I wanted to know which segments it covered.
I believe it's foreign exchange commodities energy and fixed income so I wanted just to verify that.
And then what segments still need an Eikon update and what's the plans for any update to an investment management product this year? Yes I think you were right at the beginning but we also -- the rollout also included some really strong upgrades in the equity side as well so -- and something we worked very hard with customers over the course of the past year to build it in.
So it's a much much richer and deeper equities platform as well and I think I'll come back -- what's left at the end of the year is we're moving in the Investors segment.
We've always targeted the end of this year for migrating our Investor products onto the platform but we've made a major commitment to doing that and to moving everything to the platform.
It will be the fourth quarter of this year is kind of the development path for the tools that move into the Investors segment.
Although I would have to say that in many Investors segments outside of North America we're already beginning to sell Eikon as a tool into the Investors segment particularly in emerging markets.
So it's kind of fit for purpose there depending on the content.
So the bulk of the build will be completed throughout this year across all of the areas.
And I think in terms of functionality it's not just the functionality of what we've built into Eikon.
It's the fact that we actually for the first time with this rollout married up the underlying what were separate Eikon and Elektron platforms which gave full depth of book to all of our content sets either through to the desktop or either through a feed.
And that's a critical piece of our strategy going forward to be able to deliver that all that content in a joined-up fashion and that's well underway and very encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you expect this Eikon upgrade to have a revenue impact this year? Well I guess it will.
Yes I mean yes.
I mean the revenue impact -- anything we're selling in January will have a revenue impact this year.
As Stephane explained earlier and I think the kind of one of the strengths of our businesses but one of the facts of our businesses is that this lagging subscription model that we have takes out a lot of peaks right? And it takes out a lot of peaks and valleys and tends to add more stability than many businesses see but it also means the business is slower to turn into a downturn and slower to climb out of a downturn.
And I don't think the Eikon sales this year particularly early in the year can offset the negative net sales in the prior periods.
The next question is from the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes there's been a lot of discussion about Eikon.
Can -- turning to Elektron can you update us sort on the momentum there? Obviously a lot of cyclical and consolidation issues your headwinds but how do you sort of characterize the progress of Elektron? In fact it's been the quiet hero of the business last year.
While everybody was talking about the Eikon Elektron was motoring along making a heck of a lot of improvements improving stability doing the same stuff in customer service and adding features and functionality.
And in fact 2 of our fast-growing units within F&amp;R were both the managed services business in Elektron and the content and data feeds business both of which were up solidly double digits and both of which have continued strong demand.
And as I say when we do our Investor Day in March we're going to highlight Elektron alongside Eikon so you get a full view as to what the features and functionalities we have there and the potential for that business as well.
The next question comes from line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Stephane I guess just on the F&amp;R the cost savings from the headcount action that you're going to take maybe we can handle the following.
One what sort of the timing look like for the implementation? And then if we think without putting you on the spot for 2014 guidance but asking you directionally what's that lift going to look like? Are the savings all going to go right to the bottom line or you're going to reinvest some of the money into the business? And then finally just clarifying where that charge is going to go you mentioned it in the guidance but whether you're going to break it out or it's going to be embedded in the cost base in Q1.
Sure Paul.
Thank you.
That's actually a good question.
I'm glad you asked the question.
Let me start with the second half which I think is quite important.
The -- this severance cost is going to hit the F&amp;R results.
So this is a subtle but profound change from the way we use to take restructuring costs in the past.
We are taking them directly in the business and the business essentially has to overcome these costs.
And the management team at F&amp;R understands that very clearly and is very committed to doing that.
So you're not going to see much beneficial impact of the severance action we're taking in F&amp;R this year.
We're going to take most of these in the first quarter.
Actually most of the notifications have already come out.
But you're not going to see the full benefit impact the flow-through benefit impact until 2014.
But sufficient to say that you've seen our EBITDA margin guidance and you heard Jim saying that we -- our hope is that we target to at least maintain EBITDA margin.
Given the negative revenue mix we're going to -- we always incur in our professional segment.
That means by definition that F&amp;R has to maintain margins this year.
And so hopefully that gives you a little bit more color about how that's going to flow through.
Research Division</strong> Just on the cost save I guess the last part of that would just be the clarification of whether or not -- obviously this year you're going to look to hold flat.
Next year you'd have the full benefit of that reduction.
Are you going to reinvest a portion of that? Like if we said it was one-to-one sort of savings likely closer to $1.5 to $1 savings or is a portion of that just going to all flow to the bottom line? Yes we probably would reinvest some of that.
But at the same token the more transparency we're getting on the cost structure of F&amp;R and the management team -- David Craig and the team have done an exceptional job in getting that transparency in the business.
I'd say the more they feel attainable we feel confident that there is room for us over the next few years to really improve F&amp;R's margins.
And that's going to happen as we essentially simplify our product and platform profile and as we eliminate the Legacy platforms.
So a lot of the redundancies you've seen this year essentially are related both to kind of middle management type elimination but also starting to eliminate people associated with specific products and platforms that we're shutting down.
So that's going to continue in the years ahead progressively.
I can't really give you any specific guidance year-by-year but the trend will continue.
The next question comes from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Jim in terms of thinking about the rollout of Eikon the 40 000-plus users now would represent exclusively existing Thomson customers? Or is there any component that would represent new sales for you guys? And then I guess more importantly related to this I'm just interested in your take on sort of the evolution in the competitive environment and how you're seeing that currently? Sure.
About 1/3 of our new Eikon sales are to new customers.
About 2/3 of those are upgrades with existing customers and about 1/3 are new customers.
So those are -- and those are competitive wins largely.
So I think we're -- again it is early in the year right and it's early in the game.
So you never want to be overstating or overly optimistic I guess is the word.
But I can't help but feel very good about our competitive position.
And I can tell you we're in a heck of a lot better competitive position today than we were 1 year ago today and we see that in the marketplace with head-to-head competitive wins with all of our key competitors.
And spin back 18 months in those head-to-head competitions we were losing all the time.
And as I said in my remarks we were playing not to lose how do we hang on? We now have a strong product that allows us to play offense and we like our position.
We have a lot of market share to gain out there and we think we have a strong product to lead with.
And what David Craig and the management team in our financial businesses have been emphasizing to the troops for the past several months is we're now back on the front foot and we're playing offensive again and we're playing to win.
We like that competitive position and I can tell you we're meeting with receptive audiences out there and we feel far more confident sitting here today than we did last year.
Research Division</strong> Jim just to follow-up to that any specific feedback from sales in terms of pricing dynamic or features that the customers are coming back to on these competitive wins in terms of what's driving that? No I think it's the mix of all of the above right? And I think we have always been able to go in with -- particularly on the -- with talking to Eikon the Eikon product we've always been able to go in with a superior value proposition.
And we could always win over the folks who made purchasing decisions looking at the total cost of ownership but now we have a product that appeals to people on the desks the actual end-users.
And that's always been a bit of an issue that we face.
We feel very very good now that we can go in with a product that the end users are going to use with a dramatically improved user interface with dramatically improved content and with some real game-changing technology in there backed up by improved customer service.
So it's that combination I think that gives us confidence this year that we didn't have last year.
The next question is from the line of William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> What needs to happen to hit the top end of your margin guidance range? And where are you in the process of really having an informed view on portfolio decisions given the improved transparency? What would need to happen to hit the high end of our margin projections would be re-strengthening in the environment in the external environment which would lead to better transaction volumes which as you know flows straight to the bottom line.
And what was your second question Bill for us? Research Division</strong> Yes the second question is just kind of where are you in the process of having an informed view on portfolio decisions? When you set out to improve transparency my impression was that you would have a better ability to kind of evaluate the businesses you like and the ones you don't.
Yes.
No absolutely good question.
Look it's better and better.
The transparency is obviously much better now than 12 months ago.
That's really what has enabled us to do some transactions like the sale of our corporate services business.
And look at this point in time we obviously don't want to be too explicit about what other portfolio moves may come but I would say we have a good enough transparency to start implementing more of these moves if we wanted to.
The next question comes from the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the topic of sort of retiring legacy systems which you highlighted would happen by the end of the year and presumably would be a benefit to future costs and margins is there a level of desktops on your Eikon or other products that the ability to do that is tied to? I think you have to look at it really segment by segment.
For instance as Jim said earlier Eikon 3.0 included a pretty significant upgrade in terms of functionality related to equity and that is really what we needed to start retiring the Bridge platform.
So this is what you're going to see happening sometime in the course of this year.
The Bridge platform will essentially be retired.
So it's not going to happen obviously magically because we achieve a sort of number of Eikon desktop out there.
It's going to happen -- it's going to continue to happen over time as we add specific functionality that are currently supported by legacy platforms.
Research Division</strong> And then your operating I guess your cash OI metric which you guys are now focusing the business more on what level of growth in cash OI would you -- are you gunning for in 2013? Matt cash OI is a simple measure right? And by the way we call it cash OI.
It's really EBITDA minus CapEx.
So we give you guidance for both these metrics in terms of what EBITDA margin will do and what CapEx or percentage of revenue will do.
For the reasons we've mentioned on this call including the large severance costs we're going to take this year and also frankly the still low revenue growth we're projecting we're not expecting a major improvement in EBITDA margin and we expect to keep tight control on CapEx so that should not -- these 2 assumptions should not drive big cash OI increases in the course of 2013.
But again as you look at 2014 hopefully position us to do better improvements.
Research Division</strong> And just maybe on that broader topic then as you look at the sort of the delta between your EBITDA and your operating income margin over time it has widened in recent years.
Maybe can you just kind of comment on overall what has been driving that? And when you see that converging again? Yes absolutely Matt and it's an excellent question.
If you look at 2012 our depreciation and amortization expense was about $18 million up in '12 from '11 so it moved from if I recall correctly 8.7% of revenue.
And for 2013 we are saying it's going to go up again and approach 9.5% of revenue.
So effectively what we see now is a lot of the product development capital spending that was associated with Eikon and Elektron is flowing through the P&amp;L.
Let me give you one interesting anecdote over the 3-year period going from 2009 '10 and '11 we spent close to $0.5 billion on building Eikon and Elektron.
During the 3 years however the depreciation and amortization expense we took because the products who were not yet in service was less than $100 million.
So that's what's essentially creating the disconnect.
What you're seeing is effectively the CapEx that we incur back in these years is now flowing through the P&amp;L.
This is just accounting.
This is just the way it goes.
That's why Jim and I are very much focusing the organization on this cash OI metric because we say what matters is what we control today and what we can control today is the level of CapEx that we incur in 2012 and that we're going to incur in 2013 and that's very much what we are essentially incentivizing the leaders of the business to which is the difference what we did in the past.
So hopefully that answers your question Matt.
Yes I'd like to just add to that.
I can't add to the -- that was very eloquently explained so I can't add a specific explanation.
But I just wanted to point out that what Stephane just mentioned is fundamentals of the changes we've been trying to drive in this business.
And you've heard me talk a lot about the things under our control and we're on track with the things under our control.
And that's exactly why -- we can't do anything about things that happen in prior years that are going to go flow through.
But we can focus on those things that are under our control and we can prove -- improve our visibility into the real dynamics that are driving the top and the bottom line.
So that's why we've tried to put more transparency into the various units.
That's why we're handling the severance costs the way we're doing them this year.
We're not trying to have big buckets and then explain around them.
So the greater visibility we can get into the business and our operators can have of their business and those dynamics the greater transparency we can provide to you.
And we're working very hard to get past these historical issues and get to a world where you have greater transparency because we have greater transparency.
And our final question comes from the line of Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> It was about where is growth coming from because clearly net sales are still negative.
They're not going to get positive so where is growth coming from? You have mentioned commodities energy data feeds etc.
but is it right that geographically though there's quite big differences in the growth of the desktop and how much price increase are you putting through -- how much of the net price increase are you putting through in 2013? Our price increase in 2013 is essentially something that's included in most of the contracts which we have which is essentially based on inflation.
So it will be probably in the area of 2% I would say in Financial &amp; Risk.
So that's obviously 1 key element where growth is coming from.
And then as you described Matthew it's coming from the higher growth segments the ones that you mentioned.
And that's offset by the negative net sales performance we've had in a lot of other segments that I described earlier on this kind of wheel slide I showed during the presentation.
Yes and I would just say anecdotally we do see regional differences.
We're seeing strong performance frankly in the Americas and we feel very good about that.
We're seeing strength in Asia x Japan.
In Japan was certainly challenged last year and continues to be so and we see the most difficult environment we face Europe as Stephane mentioned earlier.
So growth comes from both taking advantages of those markets where we can actually sell more and accelerate our positive momentum.
The growth also comes from stopping decline in places that are going backwards.
So the closer we can get to flat on those drags then the better our overall growth rate turns out to be.
And as Stephane pointed out it's a really important thing to remember about our business particularly F&amp;R these multiyear contracts have built into them price increases year-on-year so we can get revenue lift even without the sales lift.
Research Division</strong> I have one quick follow-up which is on Legal which is do you agree with Reed and Lexis that when the U.S.
economy recovers core legal research which includes print will start growing again? Or has there been a structural change which may basically mean that's not going to happen even when the economy recovers? Look there's no question that when the economy recovers it's a generally more favorable trading environment.
What we have seen historically is that those downdrafts that I just mentioned in my prior remark those downdrafts get lessened.
And what we've seen historically is that for us print is the first thing that gets hit when you enter into a downturn.
And then as general economic conditions improve print stops getting hit so hard as people are no longer looking at aggressive cost actions to respond to a downturn in their revenue line.
So I think the general environment always helps.
That said I think there have been some fundamental changes in the legal world.
And I think legal -- there's particularly large law firms are managed more like other large professional services firms or other large corporations these days and they're very focused on cost.
And I think that we're in a world where that dynamic is never going to go back to where it was 5 years ago.
And I think if you look at kind of that core legal research world that's always going to be an area that's going to be under pressure.
And I think it's not going to be the driver of the growth rate that it has been historically for any of us.
That's why we are so aggressively moving into other areas of workflow tools and services that we think are higher growth areas in the market than just that core legal research.
So short answer is a good economy lift doesn't need to lift all boats but I think the nature of competition is changing as well.
So that will be our last question.
And we like to thank you all for joining us on our fourth quarter call.
Let me just repeat what Jim had mentioned earlier that we are going to have an Investor Day in Toronto on March 22.
We'll be sending out further details early next month regarding the location time and so on and so forth.
But thanks very much for joining us today and we'll speak to you again soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for playback beginning today at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time running through Wednesday February 20 2013 at midnight Eastern Time.
You may access the AT&amp;T playback service by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 279687.
International participants please dial (320)365-3844 with the access code of 279687.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters' First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Frank Golden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us as we report our first quarter results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Now throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we will begin with a review of the first quarter results and I'll update you on the progress we continue to make.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who will review results in more detail.
Now to the results for the quarter.
The first quarter performance was consistent with our full year expectation and I'm pleased with the positive trajectory of the business as we began the year.
We are executing more effectively launching better products simplifying our systems and processes and managing with more rigor and discipline which is why our confidence continues to build.
Total revenues were up 2% reflecting good growth from the Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science businesses but that was offset by a decline in the Financial &amp; Risk revenues.
As discussed during the Investor Day our financial business is making some significant progress which I'll speak to in a moment.
That said given the subscription nature of our business and its lag effect our progress will not translate into top line improvement in 2013.
F&amp;R's revenue performance this year reflects last year's negative net sales.
However the trends in our net sales performance continues to improve and we are making tangible progress on the cost side and in particular EBITDA margin as we work toward rightsizing the business and bringing down our cost structure in a sustainable way.
More on these 2 important metrics in a moment.
At the consolidated level EBITDA was down only 2% despite incurring a severance charge of $78 million and underlying operating profit declined 7% due to severance and higher depreciation and amortization expenses.
Excluding the severance charge adjusted EBITDA margin was 260 basis points higher than what was reported and underlying operating profit margin was 250 basis points higher reflecting the progress we are making on the cost side of the equation.
Lastly we are reaffirming our full year 2013 outlook.
Now let's look at the results by business segment for the quarter.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues declined 1%.
Again this was expected in light of the negative net sales performance in 2012.
Growth in Governance Risk &amp; Compliance and Marketplaces was offset by a decline in our Trading business.
Investors' revenues were flat.
Net sales during the first quarter were negative though better than both Q1 2012 and Q4 2012.
We continue to target a gradual improvement in net sales over the course of the year as Eikon and Elektron continue to ramp up.
At March 31 Eikon desktops totaled 47 000 an -- a 40% increase from year end.
Legal's revenues rose 4% driven by acquisitions.
Organic revenue growth was flat due to the timing of several contracts and a 2% decline in print revenues.
The Legal segment sales performance was quite strong in the first quarter and we expect revenue growth to improve throughout the balance of the year.
Tax &amp; Accounting had a very strong quarter with revenues up 7% 5% organic.
IP &amp; Science also had a good start to the year with revenues up 13% 4% organic.
And our Global Growth businesses continue to perform up 13% 7% organic and now comprise about $1 billion of our total annual revenues.
Let me remind you that GGO results are included within each of our 4 business segments.
So one quarter into the year we have far more confidence and are operating from a much stronger foundation than a year ago.
The external environment continues to be challenging but we are on track.
Our performance is consistent with our full year expectations and we expect performance in the second half of the year to be better than the first half.
That said we're controlling what's within our control remaining focused on consistent execution rolling out new products and we believe they will drive organic growth and we are reducing our cost structure.
As you saw at our Investor Day meeting last month Eikon is real.
It is ready and it is rapidly growing.
And the market is taking note.
In fact just last week Thomson Reuters was honored as a finalist by the internally renowned Edison Awards for service and technology innovation for our financial markets desktop Eikon.
As we continue to build credibility with our customers I am confident we will benefit from increasing demand for our improved products across the company.
Additionally our focus on simplification is having success.
We now set firm dates to set legacy products and platforms and we meet them.
On April 15 we closed the 3 000 Xtra Hosted Terminal Access Platform.
2 years ago there were 16 000 desktops relying on this platform.
Today there are 0 and we expect to achieve savings of $7 million per year.
I remain confident that the combination of better products improved execution and the benefits of our expense-savings initiatives will enable us to continue to show gradual improvement in our performance.
For 2013 we are targeting to hold EBITDA margin and free cash flow with 2012 despite the negative impact of a severance cost reoccurring and the loss of about $140 million in free cash flow from disposals this year.
We also continue to target to achieve positive net sales in F&amp;R in the second half of the year which should leave the higher growth in margins in 2014 and beyond.
Now let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim and it's a pleasure to speak with you all today.
Let me begin by reiterating what Jim said that one quarter into the year we are operating from a much stronger foundation than 1 year ago.
We are on track and our first quarter performance is consistent with our full year expectations.
We're not yet where we want to be but we are moving in the right direction.
Now consistent with what we've done in the past I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation and reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
First quarter revenues were up 2% due to acquisitions.
Organic revenues declined 1% as expected primarily due to the lag effect from negative net sales in F&amp;R last year.
At a high level our Professional businesses grew 6% during the quarter 2% organic while F&amp;R declined 1% and was down 3% organically.
More on that in a moment.
Adjusted EBITDA was down 2% and the related margin declined 70 basis points reflecting $78 million of severance charges as well as the flow-through from lower organic revenues.
The severance charges masked the continuing progress we are making to rightsize the business and bring down our cost structure in a sustainable way.
Underlying operating profit declined 7% and the margin decreased 130 basis point to 14.9% reflecting severance charges and higher depreciation and amortization expense from recent product launches and acquisitions.
Foreign exchange had a 30 basis point negative impact to both our EBITDA and underlying operating profit margins in the quarter and we believe that the first quarter represents the low watermark for EBITDA and operating profit margins for the full year.
Now let me provide you some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with our Legal segment.
Conditions in the U.S.
legal market remained challenging but the investments we have made in our faster-growing businesses continue to pay dividends.
Legal's revenues were up 4% during the quarter and were flat on an organic basis.
As Jim indicated sales were quite strong in the first quarter and we expect revenue growth to improve over the balance of the year.
Now there were several factors impacting 3 of our fast-growth businesses which were mostly timing related and which led to a decline in transactional revenues during the quarter.
Specifically Pangea3 our Legal outsourcing business experienced a decline in revenue as it faced a difficult year-on-year comparison.
Now for perspective Q1 2012 so Pangea3 grew 44% organically.
Elite our enterprise software business had low single-digit revenue growth this quarter as the recognition of revenues on large contracts depends on when the systems are fully operational.
And finally in Latin America our organic revenue growth was also a bit weaker than in past quarters due to timing as we focused on integrating our recent acquisitions.
These are all factors that led to slower growth this quarter but we do not expect these to be long-term trends impacting the full year growth rate of these businesses.
In fact in aggregate subscription revenues which represent 70% of Legal's revenue base were up 7% during the quarter 3% organic while transactions were down 7% and U.S.
print revenues were also down 2%.
Now for perspective transaction revenues showed positive growth in every quarter in 2012.
So the decline in Q1 was unusual and it is this decline which explains the overall flat organic revenue growth in Q1.
Now looking at the performance of our 3 subsegments in Legal.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions' revenues declined 1% and as a reminder this is our largest subsegment which represent about 55% of Legal.
Within that subsegment Business of Law revenues increased 6% led by FindLaw while research-related revenues declined 3%.
The second subsegment Corporate Government and Academic which is about 1/4 of the Legal business grew 4% 3% organic with Corporate up 5% and Government up 3%.
And our third subsegment Global Legal which is 20% of the total achieved revenue growth of 17% driven by the acquisition of PLC.
Organic revenue in that subsegment was a bit weaker than in prior quarters at 1% due to the performance in Latin America which I previously mentioned.
EBITDA increased 2% and the corresponding margin was down 20 basis points due in part to the acquisition of PLC.
And operating profit was flat with the margin declining 80 basis points.
Now we expect the PLC acquisition to have a negative impact of a little over 100 basis point on Legal's margin this year.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another strong quarter.
Revenues were 7% out of which 5% was organic and this was driven by strong growth across the business particularly from subscription revenues which represent about 65% of Tax &amp; Accounting's revenue base and which grew 11% during the quarter 8% organic.
This strong revenue growth reflects the strength of our offerings and the healthy conditions prevailing in the global tax and accounting market.
In particular we are very pleased with the fact that each of our businesses except Government grew at least 4% organically this quarter.
Knowledge Solutions grew 7% 5% organic.
The Professional businesses grew 6% and the Corporate Tax businesses grew 14% 10% organic.
As was the case in prior quarters our Government segment which represents less than 5% of Tax &amp; Accounting's revenues continues to face headwinds and it was Tax &amp; Accounting's only business showing a revenue decline in the first quarter.
Now from a profitability standpoint EBITDA grew 8% in the quarter and operating profit increased 10% with the related margins up 50 and 70 basis points respectively.
Turning to IP &amp; Science.
Revenues grew 13% with organic growth of 4% and that growth was driven by IP Solutions which represents a little more than half of IP &amp; Science total revenue and includes MarkMonitor.
IP Solutions was up 22% 3% organic.
Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research was up 5% and Life Sciences was up 2%.
Subscription revenues which represent about 3/4 of IP &amp; Science's total revenue base were up 18% during the quarter 5% organic while transaction revenues were flat for the quarter due to a soft environment for trademark searches as well as the timing of onetime sales of a Web of Knowledge and Web of Science products.
EBITDA decreased 3% with the margin declining 440 basis points to 30% and about 1/2 of the margin decline was due to the MarkMonitor acquisition we took here in the third quarter of last year.
And as we previously  mentioned MarkMonitor will be dilutive to the IP &amp; Science margins through 2014 before becoming accretive.
Operating profit was down 7% with the margin declining 440 basis points for the same reasons as EBITDA margin.
Now turning to Financial &amp; Risk.
Revenues were down 1% with a 2% contribution from acquisitions.
So organic revenue was down 3% in the quarter reflecting 2012's negative net sales.
Recurring revenues which is 77% of F&amp;R's total revenues -- recurring revenues declined 3%.
Again that was due to the flow-through from last year's negative sales.
And as Jim mentioned earlier net sales were negative for the first quarter as expected but better than the first quarter of 2012 and a marked improvement versus the fourth quarter.
Transaction revenues were up 17% 2% organic due to the higher volumes at both Tradeweb and FXall.
And Recoveries' revenues declined 4% primarily reflecting the continued shift towards exchanges billing customers directly.
EBITDA declined by 15% and the corresponding margin was down 320 basis points as F&amp;R took a $65 million severance charge during the quarter.
Operating profit declined 26% with the margin declining 390 basis points due to the severance costs and higher depreciation and amortization from new product investments and acquisitions.
Now allow me to spend a moment discussing the impact of the severance charge we took in Q1 on Finance &amp; Risk margins as this is clearly the segment that incurred the majority of this charges.
And as you can see on Slide 14 if you exclude or add back the severance costs for both the first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 F&amp;R EBITDA margin increased by 40 basis points from the prior year and this is despite experiencing a 3% decline in organic revenue quarter-on-quarter.
Now let me remind you that our target is to keep F&amp;R's EBITDA margin roughly flat for the full year despite both the negative revenue growth performance and despite the severance costs we are taking to streamline our cost structure.
This is somewhat of a stretched target we have set internally which if achieved would demonstrate our ability to improve our margins in this segment going forward.
We're not there yet but the first quarter performance is quite encouraging from an underlying profitability improvement perspective.
Excluding or adding back severance costs again for both periods operating profit declined 4% and the margin declined 30 basis points.
Now I'd like to briefly review the results for the individual segments within Financial &amp; Risk.
Trading revenues declined 6% driven mainly by declines in Equities and Fixed Income associated with the negative net sales in 2012 and continued weakness in Europe.
Investors' revenues were essentially unchanged.
Within this business unit Enterprise Content revenues increased 6% while Investment Management revenues declined 3%.
Wealth Management was flat and Banking &amp; Research revenues were down 3%.
Marketplaces' revenues increased 4% with organic revenues down 2%.
As a reminder Marketplaces now includes the foreign exchange desktop business which was moved from Trading on January 1 and was included in the end-of-year restatement we posted back in February.
Now growth in Marketplaces was driven by a 5% increase in our Foreign Exchange business resulting from FXall.
Organic revenues fell 3% due to desktop declines.
Tradeweb was up 1% impacted by a difficult prior year comparable when revenues grew 32% 11% organic.
And finally our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance revenues increased 8% during the quarter 6% organically.
Organic growth is expected to ramp up on a full year basis as the first quarter was also impacted by a difficult comparison to the first quarter of 2012.
Now let me turn to review our consolidated results.
Our first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.38 per share $0.01 lower than a year ago.
This $0.01 decrease was attributable to lower operating profit driven primarily by the $78 million severance charge.
These decrease was partially offset by lower interest expense and a lower tax rate.
Excluding severance charges in both years adjusted EPS would've increased by $0.05 versus the prior year period.
About $0.02 of that improvement was due to better operating performance while the remaining $0.03 was due to lower interest expense and taxes.
Currency had a $0.03 negative impact on EPS versus the prior year.
And for the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance of $470 million to $490 million for interest expense as well as for an effective tax rate for the year of 11% to 13%.
Turning to free cash flow.
The first quarter is usually our weakest quarter from a cash-generation perspective and this year is certainly no exception.
It is not reflective of what we expect for our full year performance which to remind you is between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion.
There were 3 key factors impacting free cash flow negatively this quarter.
First the timing of our CapEx spend.
From a cash perspective we spent $350 million this quarter which is $70 million more than the first quarter of last year and that was related to a large multiyear software contract.
That accounts for about 35% of the change.
Second based on the timing of disposals we have far more cash from businesses outside of ongoing operations last year than we do this year.
This accounts for another 25% of the difference.
And finally changes in working capital offset in part by lower interest and tax payments all of which are timing related make up the rest.
In the first quarter of this year we collected less cash than in the first quarter of last year.
And again we believe that this is merely timing as we plan on ramping up collections in the second half of the year.
And this brings us to our 2013 outlook which we reaffirmed today as reflected on this slide.
So in conclusion let me just reiterate what Jim said.
We've made a lot of progress from a product process and cost standpoint and we feel that we are in far -- in a far better position than a year ago.
However we recognize that the external environment remains challenging and as such we are very focused on the levers which are under our control namely continuing to improve our products and customer service and reducing our cost structure.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank.
Great Stephane and thank you.
And we would like to go to the Q&amp;A session.
So operator if we could have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on -- my one question on organic revenue growth.
Just with the performance within Trading down 6% obviously I think a little bit worse than what folks were looking at.
Just wondering if you could provide a little bit more granularity on that one.
Obviously you restated kind of sell-side FX in the Marketplaces just wondering if that had an impact.
And then also in terms of the Eikon migration within Trading are we seeing a little bit more kind of customer churn kind of arise if you look at kind of that net sales dynamic in the back half of last year and how it's flowing through right now? Drew it's Stephane.
I'm going to try to take that question.
As I mentioned during my remarks the decline in Trading was really driven by a decline we saw in Equities which show double-digit declines during the quarter and also in Fixed Income.
And if you recall for the Equities desktop that the release of Eikon 2.0 was really what essentially enabled us to get all the functionality that we need to compete effectively in the Equities desktop market.
So what you're seeing in terms of the revenue decline this year is really a reflection of the net sales that we had last year when we did not have the complete competitive product.
So we would expect that the trend will improve over time.
And I think that's really what explains as I said most of the decline in the Trading segment.
And we do have a question from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping you could give us an update on the trajectory around Eikon.
It looks like you added about 1 000 during the month of March which might be -- it looks like a bit of a slower pace than what we've seen recently.
So I'm hoping that you can give us an update on that and how the trajectory has been in April.
Yes.
I think what -- Sara we're pretty confident with the kind of what our average trajectory was throughout the first quarter and that's what we're projecting for the balance of the year.
Any given month or couple week period can be affected by one-off installations and pace at individual customer side.
So we try not to build too much into any given week or month but rather look at it on a quarterly basis and we don't see any trends.
While we -- what we have seen in the first quarter is our -- is that we continue to build more capacity.
So we're able to take on more customers than we ever have been.
We don't think there's any kind of overall change in the trajectory.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up have you communicated plans now to shut down the Reuters 2000 Xtra platform to clients?  I think you were planning to do that by the end of the year.
And I'm wondering if you have how their reaction's been so far? We're not offering Reuters 3000 Xtra to new customers.
And I think we mentioned during Investor Day I think Peter must have made the comment that our hope is to convert most of the existing Reuters 3000 Xtra by the end of the year.
It's hard to say whether we're going to convert everyone to the last one but most of them should be converted to Eikon by the end of the year.
Yes.
And I think if I could add just a little bit of color to that I think the reception has been overwhelmingly well received.
There are pockets of customers of course who want to make sure that they're going to be properly supported through any transition.
And we've committed to do that which is why I think we've said we set an aspirational target of moving everyone or being ready to make all the moves by the end of this year.
But of course we're not going to leave customers in the lurch either.
So we'll be very careful to be mindful of their needs.
But I say overall customers particularly when they see the features and functionalities that they're going to be able to gain the increased reliability that they're going to get from this transition I think are largely supportive and comforted provided we're going to be able to support them in their transition and don't push them too fast.
And we do have a question from the line of the Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is George Tong for Peter Appert.
Could you discuss what kind of a pricing increase do you expect from the rollout of Eikon and what implications that can have for net sales and revenue performance this year and next year? And also as a follow-up what the Eikon rollout timeline looks like for the U.S.? Sure.
Let me try to take at least the first part of the question.
As we roll out Eikon and we really roll new product in the form of an upgrade to the existing product to customers so there's no price increase associated with this rollout.
We're just essentially providing all customers with what is a much better product versus what they have now as the goal is really to try to have a strong penetration from Eikon as quickly as possible.
So there's no immediate price impact associated with the rollout of Eikon per se.
And to be completely frank I -- we're not essentially rolling Eikon by regions but rather looking at it by customer and by segment.
That's why last year and this year we very much focused on converting all our customers in the Trading segment.
At the same time we are very much upgrading the functionality of the product from the investor or the investment management standpoint.
We expect to have that functionality largely done by the end of the year.
So we're starting to roll out Eikon in our Investors' segment but we're doing that more slowly and most of the rollout will likely happen next year.
Hopefully that answers your question.
And we do have a question from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Andrew.
Stephane you used the term 70% of F&amp;R being reoccurring.
But for the other segments you used the word subscription.
Could you go over in F&amp;R what percentage of our revenues are subscription? And what does recurring mean that's sort of outside of subscription in F&amp;R? In F&amp;R it's pretty much the same thing Andrew.
I mean you should assume 70% of the revenue is really largely subscription-based.
So I apologize if I brought some confusion.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And when you say subscription you mean kind of on a per-seat basis? It's not necessarily on a per-seat basis.
Some of our -- are feed business which really is not per seat.
It's also subscription-based.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can I just sneak in one other question? On the F&amp;R margin that the adjusted margin of 21.5% is there anything else that's onetime to call out other than severance? Not that I can think of in the first quarter.
And we do have a question from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
You mentioned the one platform that you shut down April 15 I'm just thinking about your net sales outlook and all the sort of decommissioning of legacy platforms you're doing.
Do you expect there to be much deliberate lost revenue in the back half of this year as you start to shut down more platforms? And if there is that expectation do you still expect to have positive net sales over and above that sort of good revenue loss if I can call it that that leads to the cost cutting? Yes.
I think we've been positively encouraged as we've been moving into this platform consolidation effort.
And one hates to predict future success based upon early experience but we've been pleasantly surprised at the level of revenue loss by shutting these down.
We do not think that's going to be a material impact on the business nor do we think it's going to factor into anything about when and whether we turn net sales positive.
We -- it's just early on.
We've been encouraged by the response and by our ability to limit -- eliminate and limit the revenue loss.
So we're pretty encouraged and we're not anticipating this is going to be a major factor over the latter half.
And we do have a question from the line of Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I know Investor Day was only a little over a month ago but can you give us an update on the market environment? And do you think that you've already seen the full extent of the impact from already-announced sell-side headcount reductions or would you expect that to continue to be impacting your business? Toni it's Stephane.
Look the -- as we mentioned in our remarks the market environment remains tough.
There's no question about that.
It's really hard to predict what will happen in the future in terms of additional headcount reductions that may be announced by our customers.
And that's why really our focus is entirely on the things we can control which is really making sure that we continue to improve the functionality of our product and also in the customer service and as I said also if only that we attack the cost structure in a smart way by essentially simplifying products and platforms so that it's durable add-back to the cost structure not just a temporary one.
Yes.
And I think just to add a tiny bit of color on that.
It really depends -- when you see the cutbacks it kind of depends customer by customer and where they're making the cuts as to where they -- as to where we're impacted.
And so at these places where we're strong we'll fill it.
And at these places where we have less penetration or less product out there we fill it less.
But it -- to Stephane's point it's -- we live in the same marketplace that everyone else competes in.
So we can't escape kind of the operational gravity there.
That said we're in a heck of a lot better competitive place than we've ever been.
So when those cuts do come we're in a stronger position to compete in the remaining operations and to compete for greater market share.
We're not sitting back waiting for the overall market to turn around into a different direction in order for us to get back to a positive growth trajectory.
In fact we're going after gains in market share and we think we have plenty of opportunity to do that with the improvements we have both on our products and on our customer service and our more effective sales operations.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up.
In terms of the gains in market share how quickly do you think that you might be able to see those? Well I think we're already seeing a change in the competitive dynamic right now.
As I've said for the past couple of quarters we're finding out that we're no longer losing every competitive bake-off anymore.
In fact we're winning our fair share now.
So we certainly think we have at least stemmed the tide of losses in market share and I think we're in a very competitive position now.
And we do have a question from the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you could talk just a little bit about the key milestones not only in the terminal side but also in the infrastructure side? And is that a Q3 or Q4 event? And then I guess for Stephane even ballpark how material or not would these be in terms of cash charges that we should sort of be starting to think about towards the back end of the year? Look Paul if you remember the discussion we had during Investor Day I think you had a -- hopefully a good overview of what F&amp;R is trying to do in terms of milestones.
It doesn't happen in -- just in Q3 or Q4.
It's really going to be an ongoing process over the next couple of years as we essentially are able to fully eliminate some platforms and consolidate them into Eikon.
So it goes in stages.
That's why the first stage is to make sure that Eikon has all the functionality and more of the old platform and then begin the transition period or the upgrade where we essentially move all the customers that use that legacy platform into Eikon.
And only once you move all the customers you can start shutting it down.
As Jim mentioned one platform that was closed in the first quarter we've also announced that we were going to close other ones like the Bridge platform which is important from as I said supporting our Equity desktop offerings in the second half of the year.
You're going to continue to see those over the course of time.
And frankly some of the severance costs that we took in the first quarter were in anticipation of that.
We -- as we mentioned right our intent is to continue to do the right thing for the business.
We will continue to take potentially like severance costs across the course of the year.
If they're like really significant we will make sure that we explain it to them and disclose them to you.
But if they're kind of small as we've done in the past in Professional we just include them in our run rate.
And we do have a question from the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Could you give us an update on acquisitions and divestitures for the year? I guess specifically any more information you can give on the magnitude of PLC that went through this year and update us on your announced divestitures in terms of magnitude and timing? Sure.
I'll just review -- I'll answer the first part of that and Stephane can answer the second part on divestitures if that's okay.
I think as we said in Investor Day I think you should anticipate that there will be a decreased level of acquisition activity than there has been over the past 2 to 3 years.
We had an abnormally high level as we saw opportunities to move into faster-growing sectors of our market.
I think you'll -- we'll be back to more the tactical fold-in kind of ongoing run rate that you come to expect from us but primarily small fold-ins.
As you know we don't comment on that specific prices on specific acquisitions but we have completed several acquisitions through the first quarter the largest of which would have been PLC.
And we anticipate more tactical acquisitions I think through the balance of this year and I would say even into the next year.
As I say more in line with our kind of ongoing practice and pattern not the levels to which we've been spending in the past couple of years.
And Tim in answer to your second question the timing and some details about the divestitures.
I think if I'm correct there's like -- there's really like 2 more transactions that are going on right now.
One is our IRPR business in F&amp;R.
And as you remember we announced that we have signed a definitive purchase agreement with -- to sell that business.
We expect that transaction to close hopefully in the second quarter and that's the largest one in terms of proceeds several hundred millions.
And then we got a small business in our Tax &amp; Accounting business where we just really are starting the process.
That's going to be less meaningful from a proceeds perspective and that one we expect may close in the third quarter.
And we do have a question from the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions.
Stephane can you just take us through the components that drops Corporate and Other from negative $84 million a year ago to negative $47 million this year? And then Jim how confident are you that -- in organic growth picking up in the overall Legal complex for the rest of the year? Let me take the first question.
The operating profit in Corporate was better by over $30 million on a year-on-year basis and that was primarily driven by lower severance cost.
If you remember in the first quarter of last year we took about $28 million in total in terms of severance and most of that was booked at the Corporate level.
And this year we didn't take any severance costs at the Corporate level.
So that was the primary driver.
We also had a number of smaller items which was -- it impacted the first quarter performance and which were either onetime or timing related.
I'd say for the full year we would expect Corporate costs to be roughly in line with 2012 maybe slightly less but roughly in line with 2012 as the savings we realized in Q1 will be mostly offset by other small onetime benefits.
This favorably impacts our -- the corporate center in the course of 2012.
And from my perspective the odd thing is when -- in a lag business like ours you live in a world where I know what's going on well before it flows to the revenue line.
And I -- so I'm actually feeling very bullish on our Legal business right now.
I think we've had -- we've been very encouraged by the overall sales environment particularly in the first quarter of the year as Stephane said.
We're quite confident that we're going to see improvement in Legal.
And in fact when we've done -- have done our planning for this year we had anticipated in our internal plans that this would be a low watermark in the first quarter reflecting really the flow-through of activities in the prior year.
So we're quite confident and counting on pickup in our Legal business.
And we do have a question from the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So you're shooting for nearly flat margins in F&amp;R EBITDA.
Stephane can you talk about some of the puts and takes on getting there and how the -- revenue dependent that might be? And then just Jim a quick follow-up on Legal.
Where is that strength in Legal based on net sales coming from -- more specifically in terms of that segment and the product areas? Okay sure Matt.
On the drivers for the target we have internally for flat margin performance in EBITDA level at F&amp;R it essentially -- it -- the fact that prior factors are on the negative side that we're going to issue severance charge we're taking most of it was taken during the first quarter.
And again that was $65 million negative impact.
And the other negative factor is that we are expecting essentially negative organic growth rate for F&amp;R for the full year.
So targeting flat EBITDA margin in an environment where you like essentially have a decline in organic revenues for F&amp;R and you're taking a large amount of severance expenses.
I think if we're able to achieve that we're only going to be able to achieve that if there's a real decrease in the overall cost structure of the business.
And that's really what we're targeting.
So that's why it's depending on the ability to bring down the cost structure of F&amp;R.
And as I said I think the first quarter performance is quite encouraging from that perspective because if you take away the noise of the severance charge they had really a good performance from an underlying profitably standpoint.
And on the second question Legal I think -- actually if you remember what I mentioned is that in the first quarter if you look at the strength of the subscription portion of the revenue base of Legal which again is about 70% of their total revenue these revenues grew 7% during the quarter.
The organic growth from a subscription perspective was like 3%.
So that kind of shows that there is strength underlying strength in the business.
So what was done during the quarter was really the remainder.
And the remaining 30% is about -- half of that or 15% is transaction-related business and those were down 7%.
And the other half was essentially U.S.
print which was down 2%.
So net sales -- Jim may want to add some additional color.
But I think net sales were actually good across-the-board in Legal.
It was -- we had good sales in call research as well as in the new software and services solutions.
Yes I think that's right.
So the encouraging part is that we're feeling the strength based upon the strength of Westlaw and our core subscription businesses as Stephane said.
That's quite encouraging for us.
We're seeing -- and if you look at the kind of leading indicators of sales we're seeing good results in the first quarter in both large law firms and in small law firms.
And it's coming from the core Westlaw products and from new products that we've introduced particularly new product in the small law firms which is encouraging and a new product named the General Counsel in the Corporate space as well.
So this is kind of good performance of our core businesses and our new products.
So that's where we're seeing it.
So that is our final question for this quarter's call.
We'd like to thank you all for joining us and that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that -- this conference will be available for replay after 11:30 a.m.
today through midnight on May 7 2013.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference Replay System at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 288409.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us as we report our second quarter results this morning.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Now throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we'll begin with a review of the second quarter results then I'll update you on the progress we continue to make and the overall market conditions we're seeing midway through the year.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who will review the results in more detail.
Now to the results for the quarter.
The second quarter's performance was again consistent with our full year expectations and I'm pleased with the progress we continue to make.
We are tracking to our plans despite the fact that a few of our markets are still quite challenging.
Total revenues were up 2% reflecting continued good growth from the resilient Legal Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science businesses which were up 6% on a combined basis.
But that was partly offset by a 1% revenue decline in our Financial business.
As you've heard me say on prior earnings calls given the subscription nature of our business and its lag effect our progress will not translate into top line improvements in 2013.
This year's performance in our Financial business reflects last year's negative sales.
Now despite the top line pressure in F&amp;R we continue to make consistent tangible progress in rolling out new products while at the same time reducing our cost structure in a sustainable manner to grow margins and free cash flow.
And you can see that reflected in today's results.
At the consolidated level EBITDA was up 3% despite a 1% decline in organic revenues and underlying operating profit was up slightly despite the decline in organic revenues and a $20 million increase in depreciation and amortization.
Stephane will share more details on that in a moment.
And finally this morning we are reaffirming our full year 2013 outlook.
Let's turn to the results by business segment for the quarter beginning with our Financial business.
Revenues declined 1% as expected.
Growth in Risk &amp; Compliance and Marketplaces was offset by a decline in our Trading and Investors businesses.
Turning to net sales.
We continue to see a marked improvement in net sales and we expect that trend to continue over the balance of the year as Eikon Elektron and other new products continue to ramp up.
The second quarter was negative but was substantially better than both Q1 this year and Q2 of last year.
Some additional color.
This quarter marked the lowest negative net sales quarter since Q3 2011.
And all global regions continued their positive trajectory with several encouraging developments.
Asia was positive and Japan achieved positive net sales for the first time since Q2 2011.
The Americas showed strong improvement.
So the sales trends continue in the right direction.
We have broken into positive sales territory in some regions in Q2 and expect to see continued improvement across-the-board over the balance of the year.
Unfortunately the headwinds affecting the largest global banks particularly in Europe continue to dampen our progress.
The continued cost cutting retrenchment and headcount reductions by the biggest European players shapes the playing field on which we compete.
Therefore the task of posting positive net sales for the entirety of the second half looks challenging.
Nevertheless we continue to see accelerating momentum and remain confident in the trajectory of the business and our ability to drive profitable growth.
Our competitive position has never been stronger.
Legal's revenues rose 5% driven by acquisitions.
Organic revenue growth was 1% impacted by a 7% decline in print revenues.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another good quarter with revenues up 7% 3% organic.
IP &amp; Science revenues rose 9% due to acquisitions but organic revenue was down 1% due to the timing of several large contracts.
We expect this will rebound in the second half of the year.
And our Global Growth businesses continue to perform up 14% 7% organic.
And they now comprise about $1 billion of our total annual revenues.
Let me remind you that GGO results are included within each of the 4 business segments.
So at the midpoint of the year despite an external environment that continues to be challenging we're tracking to our expectations and remain comfortable with the full year outlook.
Our x Professional businesses continue to perform and with respect to our Financial business we continue to make real progress.
We are far more disciplined and we are becoming a more execution-focused organization which is helping build confidence across the company.
Our products are more innovative our customer service and administration continues to improve and our customers are taking note.
Eikon is on course and is gaining momentum entering the second half of the year.
We now have 61 000 Eikon customers.
The upgrade program is on schedule and we remain pleased with the progress.
We will continue to simplify our platforms systems and processes which we must do if we're to reach our cost savings and margin targets.
So far this year we've closed the HTA and EMT platforms on time and upgraded 33 000 customers to Eikon.
And I'm particularly pleased to report that our retention rates were 97% for the HTA and 98% for EMT a testament to the positive response to Eikon.
The Bridge Data Network is up next.
Now I've been in my current role as CEO for 18 months.
It's a good time to assess where we are.
I can confidently say that we have made profound progress on what has been our top priority turning around our Financial &amp; Risk business.
And while a lot remains to be done and the pace of the turnaround will continue to be influenced by the external environment I am confident that the business has turned the corner and will maintain its positive momentum in the months to come under the leadership of David Craig and his team.
I'm now turning my intention to ensuring that we focus more on organic revenue growth across the company through developing and delivering better products better service and better user experience.
I am convinced there is a substantial opportunity for us to drive organic growth and to further reduce costs.
But in order to accomplish this we must continue to drive integration simplification standardization.
The good news is that's in our control and I am confident that this approach will enable us to achieve sustainable growth in free cash flow and earnings to the benefit of our customers shareholders and employees.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim.
And it's a pleasure to speak with you today.
Consistent with what we've done in the past I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
And reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
Second quarter revenues were up 2% due to acquisitions.
Organic revenues declined 1% primarily due to the lag effect from negative sales in our Financial &amp; Risk segment last year and to the timing of revenues in our IP &amp; Science business.
Overall our Professional businesses once again delivered a robust performance growing 6% during the quarter 1% organic while F&amp;R declined 1% and was down 3% organically.
More on that in a moment.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 3% and the related margin increased 40 basis points reflecting the continuing progress we are making to rightsize the business and bring down our cost structure in a sustainable way.
Underlying operating profit was up slightly and the margin decreased 10 basis points to 18.3% reflecting higher depreciation and amortization expense from recent product launches and acquisitions.
And finally foreign exchange only had a nominal impact both on EBITDA and underlying operating profit margins during the quarter.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with our Legal segment.
The U.S.
legal market remains challenging with little growth in demand from law firms.
That said we are pleased with the progress our Legal business continues to make as it is benefiting from having invested in growth areas over the past few years.
During the quarter Legal grew 5% and grew 1% organically.
Now this 1% organic growth rate represents a sequential improvement over the flat organic growth we reported in Q1.
And it is worth noting that this improvement also came on the back of a more pronounced decline in print revenues.
U.S.
print revenues continue to be a drag declining 7% during the quarter as law firms and governmental agencies continued to cut discretionary spend.
For perspective U.S.
print was down 2% in the first quarter and down 1% in the second quarter last year.
So if you exclude U.S.
print revenues rose 8% during the second quarter 2% organic.
Now let me remind you that print revenues are often impacted by seasonal factors and publication schedules resulting from content availability from courts offers [ph] and so forth.
For the third quarter we anticipate that print revenues will decline by about 10% versus the third quarter last year for these very reasons.
We expect Q4 and full year print revenues to be down mid-single digits.
Subscription revenues were up 8% 2% organic which is in line with prior quarters and which reflects the mix of a challenging core legal research market offset by expanding sales in our newer lines of business.
As we discussed last quarter a 7% decline in transaction revenue led to slower growth in the first quarter which we expected to be temporary.
And in fact transaction revenues did bounce back during the second quarter increasing 4%.
Now looking at the performance of our 3 subsegments.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions revenues increased 1%.
This is our largest subsegment representing about half of Legal's revenues in the quarter.
And within that subsegment Business of Law revenues increased 7% led by FindLaw while research-related revenues declined 1%.
The second subsegment Corporate Government and Academic which is about 25% of our Legal business that segment declined 1% with Corporate up 6% and Government down 5% primarily relating to print cancellations at the federal state and local levels as they contend with cost pressures.
And our third subsegment Global Legal which is also 25% of the total achieved revenue growth of 23% 4% organic driven by the acquisition of PLC and good growth in Latin America.
EBITDA and operating profit both increased 2% and the corresponding margins were down 80 basis points primarily due to the decline in print and research-related revenues I mentioned earlier.
Now turning to Tax &amp; Accounting.
That segment posted another quarter of very solid performance.
Revenue grew 7% of which 3% was organic.
And that was driven by strong growth across the business except government.
Subscription revenues which represent about 2/3 of Tax &amp; Accounting's revenue base grew 6% organically.
This strong revenue growth reflected the continuing strength of our offering and the healthy conditions prevailing in the global tax and accounting market.
Once again all our business segments excluding Government performed very strongly during the quarter.
Managed Solutions grew 4% our Professional business grew 13% and the Corporate Tax business grew 20% 9% organic with strong growth in Latin America.
Now we continue to experience challenging Government business.
And as a reminder Government accounts for less than 5% of Tax &amp; Accounting's total revenue base.
However we do believe that this can be an attractive market segment for us and that our business will turn around.
In fact we believe that the worst of the Government segment's performance is behind us and that it should have much less of a negative impact on Tax &amp; Accounting's overall results going forward.
From a profitability standpoint EBITDA grew 10% during the quarter and operating profit increased 12% with the related margins up 130 and 110 basis points respectively.
Now turning to IP &amp; Science.
Revenues grew 9% with organic growth down 1%.
Total growth was driven by the MarkMonitor acquisition which closed in the third quarter of last year.
Organic revenues were negatively impacted by a decline in transactional revenues related to the timing of onetime sales of our Web of Knowledge and Web of Science products.
Transaction revenues which represent about 1/4 of the total were up 2% but the organic growth was down 1%.
Subscription revenues which are about 3/4 of IP &amp; Science total revenue base were up 12% with organic revenues flat due to delayed renewals in our Life Sciences business which we expect will be realized in the second half of the year.
And I'd like to remind you that the quarterly revenue growth for IP &amp; Science can be uneven and that growth is best viewed on an annual basis for that segment.
As such the second quarter results of the business are not representative of what we expect for the full year performance.
EBITDA increased 5% with the margin declining 90 basis points to 33.8% due mainly to the MarkMonitor acquisition.
And operating profit was flat with the margin declining 210 basis points for the same reasons.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues were down 1% with a 2% contribution from acquisitions.
So organic revenue was down 3% reflecting the continued impact of our sales performance over the past 12 months.
Recurring revenues which are about 3/4 of the total revenue base of F&amp;R declined 3%.
Transaction revenues were up 22% 5% organic as a result of increased volumes for FXall and Tradeweb.
And Recoveries revenues declined 4% due to a combination of desktop losses and the fact that some exchanges had moved to billing customers directly.
As a reminder Recoveries are low-margin revenues which are passed through to the exchanges.
The EBITDA margin for F&amp;R was up 40 basis points a strong performance given that organic revenues declined 3% during the quarter.
F&amp;R is doing a very good job in gradually reducing its cost base by managing its headcount lowering contractor costs and shifting down platforms.
Operating profit declined 5% and the margin declined 40 basis points due to the higher depreciation and amortization from new products and acquisitions.
Now we'll briefly review the results for the individual segments within Financial &amp; Risk.
Trading revenues declined 6% primarily due to declines in Equities and Fixed Income which resulted from the flow-through from our sales performance over the past 12 months.
Investors revenues declined 1%.
Enterprise Content rose 9% while Investment Management declined 4%.
Banking &amp; Research and Wealth Management were essentially unchanged from the prior period.
Marketplaces revenues grew 6% driven by 13% growth at FXall and 5% growth at Tradeweb.
Organic revenues declined 1% due to desktop cancellations.
And finally our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance business grew 13% nearly all organic.
Let me now turn to review our consolidated results.
Our second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.48 per share unchanged from 1 year ago.
The impact of higher interest expense in the quarter was offset by a more favorable tax rate.
Currency had a $0.01 negative impact on EPS during the quarter.
And for the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance of $470 million to $490 million for interest expense as well as an effective tax rate for the year of 11% to 13%.
Turning to free cash flow.
Total free cash flow increased 11% during the quarter and 14% excluding disposals.
For the first half of the year we posted a decline in our reported free cash flow of $152 million.
This is not reflective of what we expect for the full year performance which to remind you is between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion.
There were 2 main factors impacting free cash flow negatively for the first 6 months.
First the timing of our CapEx spend.
As a reminder from our first quarter call we had a large multiyear software contract renewal which impacts the timing of our reported CapEx this year versus last year.
And this impacted the year-to-date results by about $70 million.
And second based on the timing of disposals we had far more cash from businesses outside of ongoing operations last year than we do this year.
And this impacted results by $71 million.
So for the full year we continue to expect disposals to have a negative impact on reported free cash flow of about $140 million.
This brings us to our 2013 outlook which we reaffirm today as reflected on this slide.
So let me simply conclude by saying that in the face of what is likely to remain a difficult external environment for the balance of the year we know that we must redouble our focus on what's in our control that is innovation-driven growth and scale initiatives so that we can continue to improve our free cash flow performance in the near term.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank for questions.
Terrific.
Thanks very much Jim and Stephane.
So that concludes our formal remarks and we would like to open the call for questions.
So Tom if we can have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Drew McReynolds representing RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to kind of shift to the pricing environment.
So kind of my question is in terms of large contracts that you need to renew looking into the back half of 2013 are there chunky contracts? And then maybe can you just talk to the pricing environment as you're clearly migrating legacy onto Eikon? Well yes there are some chunky contracts yet to be negotiated in the latter half of the year.
It -- interestingly we're not seeing any increased pressure on pricing per se.
The conversations are all around features and functionality that we deliver.
And also it's more about total cost of ownership.
And where we're facing pressures for downgrades have all to do where banks are retrenching getting out of lines of business and/or cutting heads.
And those are the things that still have to work their way through the system.
As far as pricing goes it has been pretty consistent over time and remains so today that the price increases that we're getting are sticking.
And we're not seeing any significant change in the pricing pressure there.
Our next question today comes from the line of Sara Gubins with the Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You talked about getting to 140 000 to 150 000 Eikon terminals by the end of the year.
I wanted to check to see if you think you're still on track for that given the current pace.
Or would you expect the pace to accelerate given some of those chunky contracts that you just mentioned? Yes Sara let me take that question.
What I think we said at the time we had -- at the end of the first quarter when we had 45 000 Eikon installs[ph] that we would expect the full rate for the end of the year to be 2 to 3x that number and we are very much on track to achieving that.
And that should represent essentially the conversion of a vast majority if not all of -- or 3 000 extra terminals.
We -- we're very much on track to achieve that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then separately given the worsening print trends that you mentioned in Legal how should we think about Legal growth in the second half of the year? Well I think that the -- in the second half of the year and going forward if you look at '14 and '15 what we would anticipate is that this shift in revenue mix that we've been talking about for the last few quarters where -- will essentially continue.
So what we would expect to see is a continuing I would say slightly negative growth rate in core Legal research offset by strong growth in all the other business.
And as all these other businesses represent an increasingly large percentage of the total revenue base of Legal the organic growth rate of Legal should gradually improve over time.
Now as I just said the third quarter will be a little bit of an exception because of the print factor I mentioned but that doesn't change the long-term trend at all that we've seen for the Legal business.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Jim I may have just missed this but I wasn't sure that you gave a specific net new sales number here for the second quarter other than saying it was substantially improved.
Can you be more specific? No we've never given those numbers out specifically and we talked to the trends and whether they're positive or negative.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your comment on positive net new sales for the second half looking more challenging sorry to try to be more specific on this.
But is the message that we should just tone down our expectations for the year? Well I think that -- I just want to emphasize that we are incredibly confident in the trend lines and in the improvement that we see underlying.
But as we look at the renewals that we're working through the system for the balance of the year it's apparent that the downgrades at a handful of big European banks are going to temper the success we're seeing across the rest of the business.
It's important to note that even with these customers who are cutting back our competitive position has never been stronger and we're really optimistic about our long-term relationships.
But as I've said before it's difficult to outrun gravity at least in the near term.
So I just think that we should temper our expectations with the reality that we're experiencing in the market.
Our next question today comes from William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Thomas Le in for William Bird.
I just have one question on margins.
What needs to happen to hit the higher end of the margin guidance range? And how do you think about your margin expansion profile just beyond 2013? What would be a reasonable annual expectation? Tom let me take that question.
I would say directionally we would expect margins in the second half to be better than in the first half.
And the reason is that in the first half we obviously had to take on these severance expenses that we referred to.
I think they were -- year-to-date they are to the tune of about -- a little bit higher than $8 million and we're not expecting the same magnitude at this point in the second half.
So margins should improve from the 26% I think that we achieved for the first half of the year which is at the low end of our margin.
I'm not sure what needs to happen to get to the higher end but we've just reaffirmed the guidance.
So we expect to be obviously within the range of the guidance that we gave of 26% to 27%.
And then going forward we continue to provide guidance on an annual basis.
I mean one thing we've stated just to remind you that was a bit more specific than that was what we said with regard to our Financial &amp; Risk business during Investor Day where at the time we mentioned that we absolutely saw a path to get our margins in that segment closer to 30% within like the next 3 years or so which is a pretty significant margins improvement.
So that's really where we see the greatest margin potential for the business over the next 3 years.
Next question today comes from Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
A couple of questions.
First just on that last point in terms of the 30% margin target given the tougher external environment you're seeing for net sales does that in any way impact the timing of achieving the 30% goal you're hoping for? Or is that just all cost driven and it doesn't matter about what revenues are doing? Well Vince I would say what we know we need to do is to the extent the environment is not as robust as we hoped we just need to redouble the effort on the cost side.
And that's what we absolutely intend to do.
Okay.
Second I'm not sure I caught you but on the Legal side I think there were some big software installations that didn't fall into Q1.
I think you were expecting a boost in Q2.
Did you actually see that? Or have those-- completion of those installations been pushed into Q3? Yes you'll see the transaction business from the Legal business -- in our Legal segment being a little bit better in the same quarter and that's really what [indiscernible] that was what you're referring to.
Okay great.
And last just little one.
You're still saying you'll do $100 million in restructuring costs for the year.
And so that leaves another $13 million for the second half.
Do you have any idea is that mostly going to fall in the third quarter or fourth quarter or evenly mixed? It's hard to say Vince.
But I mean it's not going to have as big an impact as it had in the first quarter of course whether it's in the third or the fourth quarter.
And we'll go to the line of Tim Casey representing BMO.
I just wanted to come back to net sales which is a metric that a lot of investors are focusing on.
And it's a bit of a challenge for us obviously because Jim as you mentioned you've never published any numbers on that.
Can you just maybe help us with the definition of what you mean by that? Are we talking like-for-like when we talk about deletions and additions? Or is there anything you can help us out on that metric given there's nothing to -- no numbers to associate with it? Yes I think we're talking about the revenue value of the net of all the gross sales that we make minus the cancellations and/or downgrades that we take from existing customers and contracts.
So it's an aggregate number.
And I would agree with you that we could probably find a more helpful way to talk about it with you in the future and we'll take that away as an assignment.
But it's just the aggregate of all the gross sales activities minus the cancellations and downgrades.
Our next question comes from the line of Aravinda Galappatthige with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> In the past you've indicated that as Eikon is rolled out to the existing contracts there's not going to be any major changes to the pricing.
However as -- I was wondering as these contracts going to come up for renewal and are resigned down the line is there potential for significant price growth for those contracts that are sort of being resigned to the higher end product Eikon in this case? Well I -- you're right.
And our first intention has been to get the better product out in hand and because we believe that that would improve both our retention rates and our customer satisfaction rates.
And we're very pleased that that is indeed what has happened.
So one would hope certainly that with better retention rates with higher customer satisfaction with a much better product out there that we would be in a stronger position when it came time to negotiate renewals on the contracts.
As to whether or not that will relate to specific price increases I think the answer is I think it will help our ability to improve our retention rates.
And I think it will help our ability to sell additional content sets within the Eikon framework right? We see Eikon as a desktop platform that ties also with our Elektron enterprise platform.
And we've done a lot of work on how we will be more disciplined in our approach to pricing and offer more tiered packages tiered pricing packages for content sets.
So I think that having a world-class product out there gives us a much better platform from which to be smarter about how we productize all the content we have and to be smarter about how we price all that product.
So I would hope we would get a price lift at the end of the day in ways other than just a simple pass-through of a price increase.
We'll go to the line of Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions please.
One is on the Financial business which is can you give us any color on how the Data Feed business is doing versus last quarter? That's the first question.
And the second question is just if you could explain the math behind the Legal results.
So you've improved your organic growth rate overall.
Hasn't been that much change in Business of Law.
U.S.
print is down much more significantly down 7% versus down 2% before.
I think print -- as you've mentioned the past print is a $600 million business.
How do you get to the actual improvement in Legal with print going down 7%? Stephane would you like me to take me the first one and you will do the second one? I think it's product pipeline.
We've got the strongest new product pipeline in Legal that we've had in years and we've got new products out there like Concourse Firm Central My Business Intelligence of -- a suite of things around those litigation solutions.
So I think that we're seeing those growth vectors that we have identified several years ago catching fire and adding to our kind of organic sales initiatives there and leading to an uptick in our revenues.
On the organic side it's just on the new product.
And Matthew on your second question I think on what's happening with regard to the dynamic in the revenue mix in the Legal segment in the second quarter in the first quarter we had a weak quarter from a transaction perspective and that turned around.
As I said the transaction revenues were better.
And the reverse happened on U.S.
print essentially.
U.S.
print was down 2% in the first quarter and down 7% in the second quarter.
So overall subscription revenues remained pretty steady I would say from one quarter to the other.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing any improvements in hiring or in your end markets in the U.S.
in Law.
And obviously Government revenue is under pressure and people don't like print very much when they are trying to save money.
But is there any chance of the Legal business -- stripping out the international staff is there any chance of the domestic U.S.
business accelerating from this year into next year i.e.
higher growth in Legal in the U.S.
segment next year? Look I think what's happening as you said like the new phenomenon this quarter was the fact that Government was weaker.
And as you pointed out print is a big factor of that.
About 40% of our print revenue is actually within our Government segment.
And so that's why we saw both the Government segment going down and the overall print revenue going down.
I'm not going to make any prediction regarding like the growth next year other than what I said earlier which as a whole I would absolutely expect the revenue growth rate for our Legal segment to gradually improve over time because of this change in the revenue mix that we're saying.
And part of that is the increasing proportion or increasing exposure we have to global businesses and part of that is frankly the greater exposure we have on revenues other than core Legal research whether print or online.
And that will affect positively both the U.S.
and the international segment.
Research Division</strong> And on the Data Feed businesses? Oh the Data Feed businesses these were about -- I mentioned that the Enterprise Content and Investor rose 9%.
So that's a portion of our Data Feeds business.
And in -- I think in the Trading segment they were about flat in the first quarter.
We have a question from the line of Nick Dempsey with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I've got 3 questions left.
The first one you talked about a stretched internal target for Financial &amp; Risk EBITDA margin i.e.
being the same last year.
You've achieved a good margin there in the second quarter.
So does that target does -- look like less of a stretch now? So first question.
Second one looking a those 61 000 Eikon customers can you just tell us how many of those are new customers? I think you shared something like that with us at the Investor Day.
And lastly those weakening print trends in Legal do you expect at some point in the day a restructuring charge to help you wind down some of your cost base in print and Legal? Okay let me take the first and the third questions.
Jim you -- if that's okay you'll take the middle one? Sure.
Okay on the first one about the margin targets we have for F&amp;R as I said before this is a stretched target that we've put -- it's a stretched internal target.
It's not a formal external guidance but a stretched target we have for F&amp;R to be flat margin.
Now in the first half -- you're right the second half really showed what they can do from a margin perspective.
That was a good performance given the negative organic growth of 3%.
But if you look at the first half as a whole F&amp;R was down 140 basis points on the margin.
And that was entirely due to the heavy severance charges that they took in the first quarter.
So for them to get to like a flat margin overall means they really need to do -- perform very strongly in the second half.
That's still very much the stretched target.
It hasn't changed but I wouldn't call it a walk in the park by any stretch of the imagination.
And the -- what was your other question if I may ask Matthew sorry? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the first one was out of the 61 000 Eikon customers how many are new customers? And the other one was about the restructuring charges in print to wind down the cost base? Okay okay.
So on the restructuring charge look we've been able to manage our workforce in our print operation along [indiscernible] than we've seen in the print business.
So we've been able to do that through natural attrition.
And at this stage we very much expect to continue to be able to do that.
So -- and thanks Stephane.
And on the other one the -- it is about 10 000 of the total Eikon numbers at 61 000.
10 000 are new.
Our final question today then will come from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
Okay.
[indiscernible] We like those types of questions.
All right.
Well with that we will conclude our call and we'd like to thank you all for joining us for our second quarter earnings results.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
this morning and running through August 6 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback Service at any time by dialing 1(800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 297620.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
And again the access code is 297620.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Frank Golden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our third quarter results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Now today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today I will begin as I always do with a review of the quarter's results which continue to track to our expectations.
Following Q3 results I'll discuss the announcements we made this morning regarding the opportunity we see to accelerate our progress.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who will review the quarter's results in more detail.
And he will update you on a modest but important adjustment to our capital strategy.
First to the results for the quarter.
The third quarter performance was again consistent with our full-year expectations and I'm pleased with the progress we continue to make.
We are tracking to our plans despite the fact that a few of our markets are still quite challenging.
Total revenues were up 2% reflecting good growth from the resilient Legal Tax and IP businesses which were up 6% on a combined basis.
But that was partly offset by a 1% revenue decline as expected in our Financial business.
I am particularly pleased to report that the Financial business achieved positive net sales for the first time in over 2 years.
This represents an important milestone one of several we achieved during Q3.
The positive trend in net sales is clear and Q3 marked the fourth consecutive quarter of year-on-year improvement in quarterly net sales.
That said we continue to expect challenging conditions in the coming quarters particularly with the largest global banks.
But this is a significant step in returning our Financial business to a growth footing.
Our consolidated EBITDA margin was up 100 basis points primarily due to the Financial business.
Despite the top line pressures in Financial we continue to make consistent tangible progress rolling out new products while at the same time reducing our cost structure in a sustainable manner.
That's reflected in Financial's EBITDA margin which rose nearly 250 basis points despite a 1% decline in revenues a very strong performance.
Costs are coming out and staying out and underlying profit was up 3% despite the decline in organic revenues and a $22 million increase in depreciation and amortization.
Lastly we're reaffirming our full year 2013 outlook excluding the planned charge and pension contribution announced today.
Now to the results for each of the businesses.
The Professional businesses grew a healthy 6% versus the year-ago period and Stephane will discuss that in detail.
Revenues for the Financial business declined 1% as expected reflecting negative net sales in aggregate over the past 12 months.
Net sales for Trading Investors Risk &amp; Compliance were all positive.
All global regions continued their positive net sales trajectory with several encouraging developments.
The Americas and Asia were positive and although Europe was negative it posted the best quarterly performance we have seen since the second quarter of 2011.
But the headwinds affecting the largest global banks are still prevalent particularly in Europe.
The continued cost cutting retrenchment and headcount reductions by the biggest global banks shapes the playing field on which we compete.
But our competitive position continues to improve every quarter and we continue to see accelerating momentum behind our sales efforts with improving retention rates.
We remain confident in the trajectory of the business and our ability to drive profitable growth.
Finally our Global Growth businesses achieved revenue growth of 9% of which 4% was organic.
Let me remind you that those results are included within each of the 4 business segments.
Now September 30 was a historic day for us.
It was the day we shut down the Bridge network.
This was another key milestone we achieved as Bridge was a very complicated platform that not only supplied information for our desktops but was also deeply embedded in customer systems and with their own proprietary desktops.
Bridge even carried Reuters.com which has now been converted to Elektron.
Over 17 000 Bridge desktop users were upgraded to Eikon and Elektron over the course of the upgrade program and once more we also met our revenue retention targets.
Our teams worked tirelessly to shut down Bridge on time and with minimal disruption to our customers and I want to thank them for their efforts.
This was the third major platform closure we've completed this year and each one was on time and each one met our expectations in terms of revenue retention rates.
We are well on our way to achieving our target of $150 million.
Next up we're working to upgrade the remaining 3000 Xtras in Q4 and toward a closure of the IDN network in 2015.
And in Q4 we'll also begin upgrading Thomson ONE desktops to Eikon.
Now for an update on Eikon where we continue to make strong progress and are very much on track to achieve our aggressive year-end target which we laid out during Investor Day earlier this year.
In prior quarters we've provided you with the number of billed Eikon customers and we ended the quarter at over 76 000 up more than 25% from June 30.
This quarter we are also providing you with the number of installed Eikon customers which totaled nearly 96 000 at September 30.
And we surpassed the 100 000 installed Eikon threshold earlier this month another remarkable milestone achieved by the financial team.
We define an installed customer as one who has been upgraded to an Eikon desktop is using Eikon and not just on a trial basis but has not yet cycled on to the billing system and therefore has yet to receive an invoice stamped Eikon.
The 20 000 gap between billed and installed will be eliminated this month when the recently installed customers are billed.
At our Investor Day we said we expected to have 2 to 3x more Eikon customers at the end of the year than the 46 000 we had at the time.
And we are confident that we will achieve that target.
And lastly we will be releasing Eikon 4.0 later this quarter.
Eikon 4.0 represents a step change in user experience with new buy-side apps and improved performance visualization and workflow tools.
And as always we will continue to push out new capabilities on the platform throughout 2014.
So with our Financial business now back on a solid footing we've been planning the actions we need to take to bring Thomson Reuters to the next level of performance.
How do we go from good to great? How do we deliver even stronger value proposition to our customers? How do we build even greater value for our shareholders? It all starts with the solid foundation we have built.
I believe we've created the footprint and assembled the underlying assets we need to win.
That means the era of portfolio juggling is over.
We like the assets we have and the market positions we've built.
Now we're focused on taking advantage of our size and scale.
Additionally we are blessed with a business that generates a significant and growing amount of free cash flow.
Since we will plan to use less of that cash to fund acquisitions we will instead use it to support innovative ideas inside the company to drive organic growth and improve returns to shareholders through higher share buybacks.
Let me expand on this.
As I've said repeatedly over the past 2 years we've been focused on fixing the things within our control and we've made substantial progress.
On the operations side we've stopped the decline in our Financial business.
We've improved products and customer service and we begun simplifying the business in building a performance-based culture.
The third quarter marked the seventh consecutive quarter of improvement in customer satisfaction.
On the strategic side we've aggressively prioritized our capital toward our highest growth segments which now represent 50% of our overall revenues and are growing at 6% to 7% organically.
We must continue to invest behind them and ensure that they have the proper resources and talent to drive growth.
With the remaining 50% of our revenue base where financial desktops represent the largest component we believe we can improve performance and win market share with Eikon and Elektron.
With other legacy products we will build upon strong deep customer relationships by adding new workflow tools software and services to our foundational information products.
So we're starting from a strong position.
But now we must challenge ourselves to further capitalize on those strong market positions across the world by driving greater innovation across all our businesses.
We've been quite active in repositioning our portfolio of assets over the last few years.
And now is the time for us to turn our focus to leveraging our invested capital base.
Going forward I expect our acquisition activity to be more modest than it has been in the past.
We will focus our attention on driving organic growth and capitalizing on our scale.
A reduction in our acquisition activity is also essential to our goal of driving greater simplification across the business.
More on that later.
Let me be clear.
We will continue to make acquisitions as there will always be opportunities to acquire good tuck-in businesses.
However these acquisitions will be highly focused on key growth segments where we can drive organic growth and where the businesses can be integrated quickly.
I would summarize the next phase of our evolution around 3 main themes.
First we're implementing various actions aimed at accelerating the transformation of our Financial business.
I've mentioned some of the key milestones to date.
Our increasing ability to execute and the confidence we have in our unified platform strategy is what leads us today to implement the actions that should enable us to more quickly achieve our target of approaching a 30% EBITDA margin for this segment.
Second we will work to further leverage our formidable set of assets that we've put together over the last few years.
I must say I've never been more confident nor more energized by the opportunities I see.
But to capitalize on these opportunities we need to bring the full power depth and breadth of the company to bear.
We must think and operate more like one enterprise that shares core capabilities and reaps the benefit of scale in order to better serve our customers.
And finally our capital strategy is evolving to reflect the shift in business strategy I just described.
We believe that these changes should allow us to drive strong returns to our shareholders going forward.
We are confident in our ability to gradually improve our top line growth.
Our expectations for gradually improving revenue growth combined with the benefits of scale should lead to an improving free cash flow performance.
In turn that stronger free cash flow performance combined with lower acquisition spending and modest increase in our leverage target will allow us to return more cash to our shareholders without compromising either our growth strategy or our commitment to a solid investment-grade rating.
So let me remind you why we believe our revenue growth should start to gradually improve over the next few years.
As shown on this slide our targeted capital allocation has enabled us to increase the overall percentage of our revenue base in growth segments from about 43% in 2011 to about 50% this year.
Those growth segments grew by 10% on average over the last couple of years.
The rest of our portfolio declined by about 3% over the same period.
It's the difference in these 2 growth rates that explains the shift in our overall revenue mix.
Going forward we expect our revenue mix will continue to evolve with our growth businesses becoming a majority of our total revenues next year.
And that proportion will continue to grow over time.
In the near term this translates to low single-digit growth.
Longer term we expect mid single-digit growth across the company.
These expectations are predicated upon the evolution of our revenue mix not simply on the hope that the economic environment will eventually improve.
Organic revenue growth is obviously an essential component if we are to succeed but capitalizing on scale benefits and simplification is equally important.
As an historically acquisitive company with 60 000 employees across more than 100 countries around the world there is ample opportunity to simplify.
And simplification is critical to drive growth as well as realized savings.
Simplification of platforms enables simplification of product development which simplifies customer service which contributes to higher customer satisfaction and ultimately revenue growth.
And simplifying back-shop processes such as order processing billing system financial reporting tools as well as shared services like real estate IT purchasing T&amp;E et cetera all contribute to lowering costs.
Given our progress over the past 21 months I believe there is an opportunity to realize substantial savings.
Some of those savings will be reinvested in the growth initiatives some will flow through to the bottom line.
Lastly in order to drive this transformation and spur organic growth we need to engage our best and brightest talent across the organization.
We have established a number of programs focusing on change management sales effectiveness a global rotation program a cultural change initiative that will reach across the company.
We're also developing a series of initiatives aimed at specifically encouraging innovation and building a more dynamic and nimble organization.
Now in order to achieve the goals I just outlined there are several steps we need to take.
This morning we announced that as we work to simplify organization we plan to take a charge of approximately $350 million most of which will impact the fourth quarter results but a portion of which will be booked in 2014.
We will provide you with a breakdown of these charges when we report Q4.
These cost reduction actions are expected to drive about $300 million of run-rate savings by 2015 the majority of which will flow to the bottom line.
The lion's share of that money will be spent to accelerate the transformation of our Financial business.
Let me be clear.
This change is a direct result of the benefits being achieved from simplifying the business.
We are accelerating our evolution into a platform company one that delivers to customers not just a portfolio of products but the entire power of our enterprise.
The process David Craig and his team have made -- or the progress that David Craig and his team has made in the past 21 months has been truly impressive.
Fixing Eikon successfully executing on the upgrade from 3000 Xtra building out a robust and global Elektron platform cleaning up complexity around sales offerings customer service product consolidation product development while instituting a management-by-expectation culture has required a Herculean effort.
But it's also enabled the business to get back on its front foot.
We believe that the steps being taken in our Financial business could enable it to achieve an EBITDA margin nearing 30% in 2015 1 year earlier than we outlined at our Investor Day in March of this year.
This aspirational target assumes only modest revenue growth.
We also announced today we plan to buyback up to $1 billion in stock by the end of 2014 which would represent a fivefold increase relative to our average annual buyback activity over the last few years.
This will be funded in part by a modest increase in our leverage target.
This increase does not signal in any way a lessening of our commitment to maintaining a strong capital structure or our intention of maintaining a solid investment grade rating.
This increased buyback program combined with continued modest dividend increases demonstrate our commitment to drive shareholder returns while maintaining a prudent capital structure.
So in conclusion let me say that the time is right for this new aligned approach given our strong positions and financial flexibility.
Our improving track record on execution gives me the confidence to now move even faster in our transformation work.
We will pick up the pace of efforts to simplify and streamline our organization to shift resources behind the most promising growth opportunities and to use every tool at our disposal to drive value creation for all our stakeholders.
Let me now turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim.
It's a pleasure to speak with you today.
I will first discuss our third quarter results before spending some time discussing the evolution of our capital strategy which Jim just alluded to.
Consistent with what we've done in the past I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
As always reported revenues are also highlighted on each slide.
Our third quarter revenues were up 2% due to acquisitions.
Organic revenues declined 1% primarily due to the continuing lag effect from negative sales in our Financial &amp; Risk segment last year and earlier this year.
Overall our Professional businesses grew 6% during the quarter 1% organic while F&amp;R declined 1% and was down 3% organically.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 4% and our EBITDA margin increased 100 basis points reflecting the continuing progress we are making to rightsize the business and bring down our cost structure.
Underlying operating profit was up 3% and the margin increased 30 basis points this despite higher depreciation and amortization expense from recent product launches and acquisitions.
Finally foreign exchange had a 50 basis points positive impact on the EBITDA margin and a 40 basis points positive impact on underlying operating profit margin during the quarter.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with Legal.
The U.S.
legal market remains challenging.
Year-to-date demand for legal services as measured by Peer Monitor was down 1%.
During the quarter our Legal business grew 3% but was down 1% organically.
Excluding U.S.
print revenues rose 6% and were up 1% organically.
So the negative earning growth rate in Q3 was primarily attributable to 2 factors.
First as we predicted during our Q2 earnings call we did experience a more pronounced decline in print revenues.
U.S.
print which represents 16% of Legal's total revenue base declined 9% as law firms and government agencies continue to cut discretionary spend.
We continue to expect that both Q4 and full-year print revenues will be down mid to upper single-digit.
The second key factor that negatively impacted Legal's performance in the third quarter was a 5% decline in our Latin America business.
Now this is a fairly unusual performance.
For perspective our LatAm Legal business grew 20% in the first half and 18% in 2012.
It is attributable to 2 main reasons.
First we had seen a modest slowdown in the macroeconomic environment.
We remain bullish on the long-term prospects of the region but it is obviously not immune to market slowdowns.
And second we are rolling out a new order-to-cash system across the region while at the same time strengthening our commercial policies and this is causing some short-term pain from a financial results perspective.
The weaker-than-usual performance of our U.S.
print and LatAm businesses together explain the Q3 organic revenue decline and it masks some good performance across some of our other business segments.
For instance both FindLaw and PLC continue to grow strongly.
Both businesses were up 8% 9% during the quarter.
Subscription revenues which account for 70% of total Legal revenues were up 8% 2% organic which is in line with previous quarters and reflects expanding sales in our newer lines of business somewhat offset by a continued decline in our core legal research market.
Transactional revenues which represent 15% of total Legal revenues were down 3% 4% organic primarily due to the lower book sales in Latin America resulting from tighter commercial policies.
Turning to our profitability metrics.
Legal's EBITDA decreased 2% and the margin was down 180 basis points.
The margin decline was due to the dilutive impact of the PLC acquisition and the decline in print.
Finally operating profit decreased 3% and the corresponding margin declined 160 basis points.
So the third quarter margin performance really speaks to the effort required just to keep margin flat in the face of negative revenue mix dynamics in the Legal business.
In most years we are able to offset this negative mix dynamic through cost actions.
But when we have to cope with a dilutive impact of a large acquisition such as PLC this year there is obviously a limit to what we can do just through cost-cutting actions.
Here's a more detailed look at the performance of our 3 subsegments within Legal.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions was flat down 1% organic.
This is our largest subsegment representing about half of Legal's revenue in the quarter.
Within that subsegment Business of Law increased 6% while research-related revenues declined 2%.
The second subsegment Corporate Government and Academic which is about a quarter of our Legal business was flat during the third quarter with Corporate up 11% and Government down 5% primarily related to print cancellation at the federal state and local levels.
And our third subsegment Global Legal also 25% of the total achieved revenue growth of 15% driven by the acquisition of PLC but it was down 1% organically given the decline in Latin America for the reasons I just described.
Now turning to our Tax &amp; Accounting business.
That segment delivered another strong quarter.
Revenues grew 10% of which 6% was organic and this was driven by strong growth across all the segments except Government.
Subscription revenues which represent almost 80% of Tax &amp; Accounting's total revenue base for the quarter grew 9% organically.
Transaction revenues were up 5% but down 8% organically.
This strong revenue growth reflected the continued strength of our offerings and the healthy conditions prevailing in the global tax and accounting market.
From a profitability standpoint EBITDA grew 14% during the quarter and operating profit increased 21% with the related margins up 120 basis points and 140 basis points respectively.
As you can clearly see on this next slide the Tax &amp; Accounting business is very well balanced and we are achieving strong growth across-the-board except for Government.
Knowledge Solutions grew 7% Professional grew 12% and the Corporate Tax business grew 17%.
And you can see the corresponding organic growth rate on this slide.
Government which is by far our smallest segment in Tax &amp; Accounting declined 19%.
Turning to IP &amp; Science.
Revenues were up 10% with organic growth up 3%.
Total growth was driven by the MarkMonitor acquisition which as a reminder closed in the third quarter of last year.
EBITDA increased 11% and the margin was up 40 basis points in spite of the dilutive impact from MarkMonitor.
And operating profit increased 11% with the margin up 30 basis points driven predominantly by revenue flow-through and disciplined expense management.
This next slide reflects the healthy balance between subscription and transactional revenues for IP &amp; Science.
Subscription revenues which represent about 3 quarters of IP &amp; Science's total revenue base were up 13% 5% organic.
And this was driven by strong growth from the Life Sciences and Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research businesses both of which were up 8% organically.
And as expected transaction revenues returned to growth in the third quarter up 4% in total and 2% on an organic basis.
Now turning to Financial &amp; Risk.
Revenues were down 1% with a 2% from acquisitions.
So organic revenues was down 3% reflecting the continued impact of our sales performance over the past 12 months and lower transaction revenues which afflicted nearly all financial markets during the third quarter.
Recurring revenues which are 77% of the total declined 3% organically.
Transaction revenues 10% of the total increased 5%.
But they were down 3% on an organic basis as a result of lower fixed income and foreign exchange volumes across the industry.
Importantly this decline in transaction revenue is entirely market-related.
We feel that our Q3 performance was actually quite solid from a market share perspective.
Recoveries about 11% of total revenue declined 4% due to a combination of desktop losses and the fact that some exchanges have moved to billing customers directly.
As a reminder Recoveries revenues are low margin and are passed through to the exchanges.
The EBITDA margin of Financial &amp; Risk was up 240 basis points an impressive performance given that organic revenues declined 3%.
F&amp;R continues to gradually reduce its cost base by managing its headcount and shutting down platforms.
Now foreign exchange had a 60-basis-point favorable impact so that pre-foreign exchange EBITDA margin improvement was still a very solid 180 basis points.
Operating profit increased 10% and the margin was up 190 basis points reflecting the same factors I just mentioned offset by higher depreciation and amortization.
Now while we're pleased with the Q3 margin performance for F&amp;R we don't anticipate the same improvement in the fourth quarter.
There will be puts and takes over time but the improving trajectory of the EBITDA margin is what is important and the actions announced today will have a beneficial impact on this trajectory over the next couple of years.
Turning to the revenue performance of the individual business segments.
Trading declined 5% primarily due to declines in Equities and Fixed Income.
Investors declined 1% Enterprise Content revenues were up 6% while Investment Management declined by 5%.
And Marketplaces revenues were flat and down 3% organic.
Organic growth of 7% by FXall was offset by declines in our other desktop and transaction businesses.
And finally Government Risk &amp; Compliance revenues grew 21% of which 16% was organic.
Now as Jim mentioned earlier we continue to make good progress with our Eikon upgrades and you can see that in the number of Eikon desktops we reported today.
But it's important to also look at that progress from a revenue perspective.
Now as a reminder at a high level desktop-related revenues make up about 45% of the total revenue base of Financial &amp; Risk.
Of our total number of desktop accesses about 55% are currently scheduled to be upgraded to Eikon by the end of 2016 as shown in the pie chart on the left of this slide.
The remaining 45% consist primarily of Wealth Management desktop.
Now given the much lower price point of our Wealth Management desktops we believe that it is more relevant to look at the breakdown of our desktop business based on revenues versus number of desktops which is what the pie chart on the right of this slide provides.
By the end of this year we expect to have about 55% of our desktop revenue base on Eikon with another 25% scheduled to be upgraded as we gradually roll out our investors product to Eikon over the next couple of years.
When we complete the conversion of those desktop accesses about 80% of our desktop revenue base will be on Eikon so a much higher percentage than what would be implied based simply on the pie on the left which looks at the number of desktops or access points.
Starting in 2014 we will therefore track how our Eikon revenue base is progressing as opposed to discussing the number of desktops converted which is not as relevant anymore once we complete the conversion of all our 3000 Xtra desktops.
With that let me turn to a review of our consolidated results.
Our third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.48 unchanged from a year ago.
Currency contributed $0.01 but underlying operating profit was offset by a higher tax rate during the quarter as the effective tax rate in Q3 was 11% versus 8% last year.
For the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance for an effective tax rate of 11% to 13% and for interest expense of between $470 million and $490 million.
One new item to cover this quarter.
We are planning to make a onetime $500 million pension contribution in the fourth quarter to pre-fund our pension obligations.
The contribution will be made to both our U.S.
and U.K.
defined benefit plans and it is expected to bring our overall funded status to over 90%.
This marks the first time in 10 years that we are making such a large pension contribution to our U.S.
pension plans.
We expect that it will eliminate any additional material contribution requirements to the U.S.
plan in the near term.
Overall this onetime contribution allows us to opportunistically fund our pension plans in an economically attractive way given the very favorable interest rate environment.
Effectively we are replacing a quasi long-term debt obligation with external debt and the pension contribution will provide a cash deduction which will be realized over time.
Turning to free cash flow.
It increased 26% during the third quarter and was up 35% excluding disposals.
For the first 9 months of the year we posted a decline in our reported free cash flow of $54 million.
So our second and third quarter free cash flow performances both represented good improvement over the prior-year period and are placing us on the right trajectory vis-à-vis our full year target which to remind you is between $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion -- $1.8 million sorry.
This brings us to our 2013 outlook which we reaffirm today as reflected on this slide.
As an important reminder this outlook excludes the charge and the pension contribution I just discussed.
Now I'd like to finish today's presentation by discussing the modifications we are making to our overall capital strategy.
As has always been the case our capital strategy is very much aimed at supporting our business strategy while driving strong returns for our stakeholders.
Given the greater focus on organic growth and scale initiatives we are making some modest yet impactful adjustments to our key capital strategy principles.
Let me start by saying that at a high level these adjustments are consistent with the core principles we have always followed in the past.
Number one we remain very focused on driving free cash flow growth; and number two we remain fully committed to maintaining a strong capital structure and solid investment grade rating; and number three we will continue to seek the optimal balance of deploying our free cash flow either by reinvesting it in the business to support our growth objectives or returning capital to our shareholders.
As Jim just explained we feel that we have assembled a very compelling set of assets from which we must now reap the benefits of scale in order to better serve our customers.
As such we expect our M&amp;A activity to decrease from what it has been in the recent past.
Instead we will focus our organization on growing organically and on achieving the benefits of scale by simplifying our processes products and platforms across the company.
In addition we have just gone through a particularly difficult period.
Our 2 largest segments have endured very difficult market conditions.
And the early stages of the integration of the Reuters acquisition have been more challenging than we have expected.
As Jim explained in his remarks while the external environment remains challenging we feel that we have now largely turned the corner in our Financial business.
So it is worth looking at our free cash flow performance over these past few years as these could arguably be considered a pretty good stress test to assess the resiliency of our free cash flow generation model.
And as you can see on this slide our free cash flow did not grow much during the past few years but it has remained remarkably stable.
As such we feel comfortable at this time with a modest increase in our leverage target to up to 2.5x EBITDA going forward.
We believe that this modest increase will enable us to still maintain a strong capital structure and solid investment grade rating which as I said earlier remains a key capital objective for us.
Second we're also announcing our intent to increase our share buyback activity.
Our target is to buy back up to $1 billion of our shares between now and the end of 2014.
This commitment to a higher share buyback also underlines our resolve to reduce our acquisition activity next year.
While we will continue to execute tactical acquisitions to strengthen our position in key growth segments the level of acquisition activity both in terms of the number of deals and the amount of capital spend should decrease markedly from the $1.3 billion in average annual spending we completed over the last 3 years.
The combination of these share buybacks and continuing modest dividend increases for the foreseeable future should also enable us to gradually reduce our dividend payout ratio over time to our long-held target of between 40% and 50% of free cash flow from the current level of 60%.
We believe that the adjustments to our capital strategy principles we are making today demonstrate our commitment to driving strong shareholder returns without compromising either our ability to drive growth or our commitment to maintaining a strong capital structure.
So in summary our confidence in the growth opportunities across the company coupled with our strong capital structure permits a shift in our capital strategy including the ability to increase the amount of capital we return to shareholders.
Going forward we will remain very focused to drive improvements in our free cash flow performance and more specifically on growing free cash flow per share.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank.
Terrific.
Thanks very much Stephane and Jim.
And that concludes our formal remarks.
So operator I'd like to open the call now for questions please? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously a lot going on.
My question is just with respect to the positive net sales within F&amp;R in Q3.
I'm just wondering Jim if you can you just provide a little bit more context as to within the portfolio what were the strengths and weaknesses? And then what kind of visibility would you have on the net sales trends post Q4 which obviously is going to be a little bit challenging for you? Yes sure.
The overall net sales were -- I mean the trajectory was positive across the face of the business and geographically across the face of our footprint.
We had improving trends everywhere.
We were positive in the Americas we were positive in Asia we were positive in emerging markets.
We were down in Europe but up relative to past performance.
So we saw pretty positive trends across the face.
And I would say 2 things about visibility in the future.
The fourth quarter is always the most difficult net sales quarter for us it has been ever since we did the Reuters acquisition and I anticipate the fourth quarter will be difficult now.
That's the period in which the big banks make all of their kind of year-end adjustments and try to set the baseline for going into the new year.
So I suspect that will be a challenging environment again as I say particularly with the big European players.
That said we remain confident in our overall trajectory of the business.
I don't yet have and couldn't make predictions quarter by quarter by quarter but I can tell you I'm confident in the overall trajectory.
And next we'll go to the line of Sara Gubins with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is David Chu for Sara Gubins.
Can you provide some more details in terms of timing of margin expansion? So should we think '14 being more significant '15 or should it be evenly split over the 2 years? David it's Stephane I'm going to take that question.
We will -- as we always do we will provide more specific guidance on margins in connection with our Q4 calls early next year.
At this point I'm just not in a position to do that because as Jim mentioned in his remarks some of the restructuring charge we are taking will slip into 2014.
We expect the majority to hit 2013 but there will certainly be some impact in 2014.
And we will not know that the exact proportion until early next year.
So what I will expect with regard to the guidance Jim gave you and the guidance related to like F&amp;R's margin approaching 30% in -- by 2015 this is obviously a bold target we are giving out there given the context of continuing low revenue growth environment.
I would expect that the majority of that margin improvement will take place in '15 but that you will see some clear improvement in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I'm not sure if you guys addressed this in your prepared remarks but when do you expect to make a significant push into equity investment management? You mean in terms of conversion of the products to Eikon? Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's starting now and I would say it will take place over the next couple of years.
We'll use a more gradual approach than we have done for the conversion of 3000 Xtra.
But it's starting in earnest in the fourth quarter.
And next we'll go to the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
First question on the margin.
The incremental $350 million in charges does that change your longer-term margin assumption for F&amp;R? Is it now over 30% in 2016 or are these charges just to basically get to the 30% level? Vince let us get to 30% first right? This is a -- if you look at it our margin in F&amp;R is like sub-25% at this point in time and that's where it was last year.
So we're talking about a 500 basis points improvement over 2 years.
Let's first get there and then we'll set some more objectives as soon as we get there.
Okay fair enough.
And then second question on the Bridge conversion Jim you said that the retention rates were strong.
Can you quantify that at all? Is it in the same 97% 98% range as the former 2 conversions you did? Yes.
No that it wasn't that high.
It was more around 75%.
But that's what we had expected going into it because it's just a different kind of conversion.
And we wanted to make certain that we held on to the most profitable and sticky customers as we went through it.
And it was just a more complicated process.
Okay.
So that conversion rate I guess is factored into your kind of guidance for net sales in Q4 I assume? Absolutely.
And last one the government shutdown that thankfully is over now is -- did that have any material impact on your revenues in October? Well it certainly didn't help.
But to the extent to which it had an impact we'll have to -- we'll see what may have shifted around or not shifted around.
I don't think there's a material impact that we could point to right now.
But I would say like most businesses it sure didn't help.
And next we'll go to the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you go over how the Eikon upgrades has affected the net sales numbers both in terms of positives and then also in terms of negatives.
As you just mentioned the Bridge retention was only 75%.
It's a good question Andrew.
I would say on the -- you mentioned I think the main negative which is as you convert customers from one platform to the other there is always a chance to lose some revenues along the way as Jim said.
I think that it hasn't been certainly something extreme and it has certainly been very much within the expectations.
Now the main positive from the conversion to Eikon is that we've seen a gradual improvement in our retention rates.
Across F&amp;R it was in the mid-80s about a year ago.
We are trending more towards the high-80s at this point in time.
And that's really primarily attributable to the bigger proportion of Eikon desktops we have.
Research Division</strong> So Stephane I think what you just said is as you upgrade someone from Bridge to Eikon it doesn't positively affect the net sales number right because it's just basically a customer upgrade it's not a revenue upgrade? Correct.
So you lose one you gain one.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
Perfect.
And could you also talk a little bit more -- you did start the conversation about Eikon 4.0 when does that roll out? Would you expect there to be a revenue effect from that? We will do Eikon 4.0 like we did Eikon 3.0 which is to start with a softer rollout throughout the fourth quarter.
The official bells and whistles will be targeted for the beginning of next year but we'll start the soft rollout in Q4.
And then shoot for the major push when we unleash all of the new products and features into the sales force at the beginning of the year.
We expect that it will create a lot of excitement in the marketplace and we expect we'll have a pretty fired up sales crew next year with an even better product than they have today.
So we don't have specific targets to share with you at this point but we're excited about the added features and functionality that we'll be putting into the market.
Research Division</strong> And is it more asset classes? It's more of everything I think would be the answer.
And next we'll go to the line of Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question would you be able to comment a little bit on the pricing environment for your F&amp;R division? I think a month ago I saw you indicated that you were getting pricing increases as you were upgrading and converting contracts.
What have been the trends in the last month as you've been shutting down Bridge? And we talked a little bit about retention being around 75% have you actually seen any new desktop customers in the last month? Or any market share color would be helpful.
Sure.
I mean nothing's changed in the price dynamic.
We are indeed able to maintain price and it's been one of the encouraging things that we've seen actually throughout the last couple of years.
Despite the challenges in the market they haven't translated into price concessions and those contracts have been pretty sticky.
And again we continue on the -- when we go head-to-head in competitive bake-offs we are winning at least our fair share and sometimes more than our fair share.
So I think we're continuing to perform quite well in terms of our market share and our competitive position.
In all honesty our competitive position has never been stronger and my strong sense out there knowing of the things we're pitching right now is that our competitive position continues to improve.
Research Division</strong> And with respect to your chat program that -- there was a pretty big announcement I think it was a few weeks ago maybe a month now.
Any update on the level of adoption what you expect that to be over the coming quarters? And then I know the ability to interact with Bloomberg chat is something that has been a focus.
Have you seen any change in customer behavior either in terms of Eikon usage or subscriptions or anything like that as a result of the announcement? I think it's too early for us to give you metrics by which to measure the chat activity.
I will say that we have seen increases in activity on Eikon on messaging.
But we've seen them kind of steadily certainly throughout this year as we've added functionality there.
And as people have been spending more time in the Eikon product we've seen some growing user communities around the world.
As to the market open-messaging initiative again it's very early days for that.
But I would say there is great excitement in the market.
There's been a lot of talk and a lot of interaction with customers and it's been a very positive catalyst for us to engage in dialogue with our customers.
And next we'll go to the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jim maybe just clarify a little bit some of the comments you made around the portfolio optimization and where you stand in that process.
Maybe apart from just beyond Financial &amp; Risk where a lot of the focus has been how are you feeling about the broader portfolio across the rest of the groups? Look -- sure I like it.
We like the businesses that we're in now.
And as I've said in my prepared remarks the year of portfolio churn is largely over for us.
It's not -- we don't plan any big lurching moves in our portfolio.
We like the businesses we're in.
They're all performing well.
They're in solid markets.
And frankly although they address different end users the commonality around what they do in terms of applying technology to complex information problems for professionals in the information age there's a heck of a lot of commonality in those businesses and they're very -- we think they're solid marketplaces for us to play in.
And we're very comfortable with the portfolio of businesses we have today.
And I am increasingly not thinking of them as a portfolio of businesses but rather an enterprise that we can bind together and leverage and deliver to our customers even greater and more powerful solutions.
And next we'll go to the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Jim just a follow-up to an earlier question.
In terms of the positive net new sales is there any possibility to quantify how much of that is being driven by just improved market environment in terms of spending budgets by customers versus the market share side of things? Boy that would be quite difficult to do.
We don't look at it that way.
I'm not seeing a lot of activity other than certain regional players in emerging markets.
There's not a lot of increased spending by customers.
It's mostly market share.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then separately in terms of the evolving capital allocation strategy could you give us any longer-term quantification in terms of how should we think about just pace of buyback activity beyond the $1 billion pace of acquisition activity maybe in terms of percentage allocation of the free cash flow or actual dollar amounts if you could? Sure Peter let me take that one.
We've announced the $1 billion buyback that we're going to complete by 2014 as I said.
You followed us for a number of years.
You know that we tend to take a very conservative stance with regard to our capital structure and we really believe it's important to keep it at a very strong level.
And all the announcements we're doing today are very much in line with that even though we are slightly increasing our leverage targets for the reasons I mentioned.
One thing I will say though is that what we do -- and if you look at the metrics we focused on I think you've heard us talk a lot about metrics like free cash flow growth in free cash flow per share.
One thing I will say that we will use all the levers at our disposal to drive that metric.
And so that means obviously primarily focus on growing the top line.
That's the best way to drive free cash flow growth per share in the long term.
It means looking at scale opportunities we have across the business.
And it will also mean going forward reducing the denominator of that equation which is free cash flow per share meaning reducing our share count.
So I don't want to be more explicit about what we do for the long term other than saying that this is obviously a lever that we are considering as being more important than we have in the past at this point in time given the change in business strategy.
Research Division</strong> Is there a specific thought around dollar amounts in terms of acquisitions annually? Yes.
What I would say is -- as I mentioned on the call if you look at our activity over the last 3 years we've done about $1.3 billion per year and that consisted in a large number of deals probably like 30 or 40 deals a year.
It's pretty hard to push the agenda the simplification agenda when you keep adding that many tactical deals every year.
So I will expect decrease as I said both in terms of amount and size.
And we don't have a specific number but I would say probably targeting half of what we've done in the past is probably not a bad guess.
And next we'll go to the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Can you talk a little bit about the Legal business? You highlighted some of the areas of softness in the quarter but are you expecting a return to EBITDA growth in that segment as some of these short-term things kind of normalize? Yes.
Tim it's Stephane.
This year one item that had a big impact on the EBITDA margin of Legal was obviously the acquisition of PLC which we did earlier this year.
And as I mentioned in my remarks what we've been pretty successful at doing over the last few years was to kind of offset the negative revenue mix dynamics with gradual cost-cutting throughout the business.
And obviously that was disrupted by the dilutive impact of PLC.
Now that acquisition happened early in the first quarter which means that if you look at next year we will not have to cope with that dilutive impact starting in the second quarter of next year.
One thing I'd like to remind you also is that and you know it well right like the margins EBITDA margins in the Legal segment are quite attractive.
They're about twice as high as our nearest competitor.
So just keeping these margins steady in the face of a negative revenue mix environment is already in our mind a pretty good objective to shoot for.
And next we'll go to the line of Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You talked about getting to mid single-digit growth.
Assuming no change in the macro environment how long would you expect it to get there? I'll refer you to the slide that Jim showed in the presentation right where we're saying for the next couple of years we would expect the revenue growth to be still low single-digit and then gradually improve to like mid single-digit.
So it's probably not going to happen for the next couple of years.
And after that it's going to depend both on how quickly we're changing that revenue mix and also on the external environment.
So it's really hard to predict how long it's going to go but we certainly see that as our long-term target without any question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you've spoken in the past about a tiered strategy for Eikon.
Are you expecting that customers who are only using like maybe a web-based Thomson ONE product are going to be moving to like a light version of Eikon? Or do you think that there could be some cancellations if the light version isn't as light as maybe some of the products that are out there now? Yes I think we will have tiered versions.
And frankly no we're not anticipating that lots of people will not take them because they won't be light enough.
I think we have a pretty good plan strategy and a pretty good and thoughtful tiering system to deliver so we're actually excited about it.
We think we'll be able to deliver a better solution into the market.
We're pretty optimistic about it.
And next we'll go to the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Jim just to clarify on the net sales trend.
Are you -- you're citing the issue with the banks and year-end budget setting.
Are you suggesting that net sales will have sort of short-term downdraft in Q4 and then sort of reset going into 2014? Certainly it could happen yes.
Yes that -- Q4 is always a down and it -- let me -- let's define downdraft right? We are now -- Q3 we went into positive territory.
We've had now a series of quarters where we've had improving performance.
We may well continue to have improving performance but we may not be in positive territory in Q4 right? That's the issue.
So I suspect the momentum in the business is solid but I know Q4 has been a negative net sales quarter ever since the Reuters acquisition.
So it would be highly unlikely for it to be a positive net sales quarter.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Stephane just one follow-up.
You threw out a percentage on print as a percent of total Legal revenues in Q3.
Can you just repeat that? I think it was 16% Doug.
Research Division</strong> 16%.
And so is that -- is it fair to say in terms of organic growth for the Legal segment in Q4 that the mix is going to work more in your favor there? Well we expect another -- I mean as I mentioned right for Q4 we're looking again at mid to high single-digit declines for U.S.
print.
So that's still going to be weighting on the overall growth rate of the business.
We're hopeful that we generate a better performance in our Latin American business because I've -- as Jim said this is something that hopefully is not a long-term factor.
And we'll go to the line of Aravinda Galappatthige with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just really on the F&amp;R division the organic revenue growth number sort of remained at negative 3% which is what we saw in the first half of 2013 as well.
Given the sequential improvement in net sales that you've been seeing I mean I think you've indicated that the second half of '12 was better than the second half of '11.
Is there a reason that we're not seeing that the corresponding improvement in the organic revenue number? Is it -- I was wondering if it's pricing or other transactional factors.
Yes it's a very good question.
It's really -- in Q3 it's really attributable to the lower transaction revenue which is driven by market volumes really that's why we didn't see an improvement in the overall organic growth rate.
Okay.
So that will be our final question and we will conclude our call.
And we'd like to thank you all for joining us.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay starting today at 10:30 a.m.
through November 5 at 12 midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 304744.
For international participants the number is 1 (320) 365-3844.
And that does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Frank Golden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks very much and good morning and thank you all for joining us as we report our first quarter results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we'll begin with a review of the first quarter's results and I'll update you on the progress we continue to make.
I will then turn it over to Stephane who will review the results in more detail.
Now to the results for the quarter.
In short the year is off to a good start with the first quarter's performance consistent with our full year expectations.
As you've heard me say on several calls the key is the trend line not the performance in any given quarter and the trend continues to improve.
I'm pleased with the trajectory of the business.
As I said last month at our Investor Day our actions are taking hold and enabling us to build a much better platform to support future growth as we execute more effectively launch better products and simplify the business and we can see that from these results.
For the quarter total revenues were up 1% reflecting an exceptional period for Tax &amp; Accounting continuing good growth from IT and Science and a marked improvement for our Legal segment all of which more than offset a decline in Financial's revenues.
Our Financial business continues to make progress.
That said given the subscription nature of that business and its lag effect our progress will not translate into top line improvement in 2014.
Simply put Financial's revenue performance this year reflects last year's negative net sales.
However the current trend in our net sales performance continues to improve and we are making tangible progress on the cost side.
At the consolidated level EBITDA rose 8% primarily from lower severance charges this quarter as compared to the first quarter of last year and underlying operating profit rose 14% again primarily due to lower severance charges.
Adjusted EPS was $0.08 better than Q1 of last year.
We've also made progress returning more capital to shareholders.
Since announcing our $1 billion share buyback program last October we returned nearly $1.1 billion in capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and lastly we are reaffirming our full year 2014 outlook.
Let's now look at the results by big business segment for the quarter.
Financial's revenues declined 1% which was expected in light of the negative net sales performance in 2013.
The business continues to make significant operational progress with substantial improvement in execution.
For example during the quarter we launched Eikon 4.0 as well as Accelus Org ID an exciting Know Your Customer product in our Risk business.
We also closed the legacy Reuters 3000 Xtra with over 120 000 customers upgraded to Eikon.
Net sales as expected were negative for the quarter though better than the first quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2013.
In fact net sales in both the Americas and Asia were positive for the quarter.
That was offset by continued softness in Europe.
For 2014 we forecast better net sales than 2013 which should lead to improving growth next year.
Now as you can see on this slide we're no longer reporting 4 units within the Financial segment given that the business is no longer managed under that structure.
As David Craig discussed at Investor Day we are moving to a unified platform which gives us the opportunity to now operate and manage as one business operating at scale.
Prior to that we had 4 business units each with own development organizations their own commercials their own strategy their own products.
This change has enabled us to simplify our structure and remove costs.
It also means we can spend in areas that drive the biggest benefits while ending investment in duplicative areas.
The Legal segment's revenues rose 2% a nice rebound from Q4 with strong performance from our growth businesses including Elite Practical Law and FindLaw.
However this was moderated by a decline in U.S.
print revenues of 3% and by U.S.
online legal information down 2%.
Tax &amp; Accounting had a very strong quarter with revenues up 13% of which 10% was organic.
That was driven by strong growth across the business including the Corporate business which was up 22% and the Professional business which was up 10%.
IP &amp; Science also had a good start to the year with revenues up 4% driven by subscription revenue growth of 5% and transaction revenue growth of 3% and our global growth businesses continued to perform up 7% for the quarter.
And I would remind you that the GGO results are included within each of the 4 business segments.
Let me conclude by reiterating a couple of points we made at Investor Day that bear repeating.
First we believe that going forward we will achieve a gradual improvement in revenue performance which is a natural evolution as our growth businesses comprise a larger proportion of total revenue as new products take hold and as we continue to improve our competitive position.
Second as we shift to an enterprise model we have the opportunity to further reduce cost.
And we have targeted $400 million of additional savings by 2017.
These savings will provide bottom line momentum in the near term while also enabling us to reinvest a portion in the business.
And third through a combination of improving top line growth and taking advantage of scale initiatives and employing a more balanced approach with regard to the allocation of our free cash flow between tactical acquisitions and share buybacks I firmly believe our business is fully capable of delivering steady top line growth improvement and attractive bottom line returns.
Now before I turn it over to Stephane I'd like to take a moment to recognize colleagues from Reuters News.
Journalists Jason Szep Andrew R.C.
Marshall and the team who won the 2014 Pulitzer Price for International Reporting.
The award speaks volumes about the dedication and courage of our journalists.
And it reminds all of us of the high level of professionalism to which we aspire every day across our company.
With that I want to thank you and I'll turn it over to Stephane to discuss the first quarter's results in further detail.
Thank you Jim and good morning or good afternoon to you all.
As Frank indicated earlier I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
This first slide provides a snapshot of our first quarter results which do reflect the impact of charges during the quarter consistent with what we announced last October.
And as mentioned in our press release these charges had a $10 million negative impact at the EBITDA level.
As a reminder we still expect to incur a total of $120 million of charges for the full year and we would expect the balance of the charges to be spread relatively evenly over the remaining 3 quarters.
Revenues were up 1% during the first quarter.
Organic revenues were flat which represents an improvement of about 100 basis points relative both to the same period last year and to our Q4 results.
So this performance is very much in line with the gradual improvement in revenue growth we had been expecting as a result of our mix dynamics.
Overall our Professional businesses grew 5% 3% organic while F&amp;R declined 1% and went down 3% organically.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was up 8% with an EBITDA margin of 26.2% which represented an improvement of 180 basis points from the prior year period.
This increase was primarily due to lower onetime charges compared to Q1 last year.
In the first 3 months of 2014 charges totaled $10 million compared to $78 million in the first quarter of last year.
Now excluding the charges from both periods the margin in the first quarter of this year was 26.5% compared to 27% in 2013.
The 50 basis points decline was primarily the result of the revenue decline of Financial business which I will discuss later in the presentation.
Foreign exchange added 10 basis points positive impact on the margin during the quarter.
Finally underlying operating profit in Q1 increased 14% again primarily due to lower charges.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of individual businesses starting with Legal.
During the quarter our legal business grew 2% and was flat on an organic basis.
So this level of organic growth represents a 200 basis points improvement over our Q4 performance.
Excluding the impact of U.S.
print Legal's organic revenue growth during Q1 would have been positive 1%.
Subscription revenues which accounted for about 3/4 of the total were up 3% 1.5% organically.
Transactional revenues 11% of the total were down 2%.
This was in line with our expectations.
It was primarily driven by lower ancillary revenues from Westlaw in the U.S.
Turning to our profitability metrics.
Legal's EBITDA increased 3% and operating profit increased 7%.
Now here's a more detailed look at the revenue performance within Legal.
At a recent Investor Day we introduced this new way of looking at revenues.
It allows us to focus our attention on the changing revenue mix of the business as our growth business has become a larger proportion of total revenues.
As a reminder what we call our growth businesses include everything except core legal research in the U.S.
both print and online.
So in aggregate these growth businesses which made up 44% of Legal's total revenue base during the quarter grew 7% 4% organic and this was driven by solid performance from Elite Practical Law and FindLaw.
U.S.
print revenues which represented about 15% of the total were down 3%.
As indicated earlier we expect to see mid-to-high single-digit revenue declines for U.S.
print for the full year.
And finally U.S.
online legal information which is about 40% of total revenues declined 2%.
Turning to our Tax &amp; Accounting business.
That segment delivered a very strong quarter.
Revenues grew 13% of which 10% was organic.
Recurring revenues is about 80% of the total grew 9% organically and transaction revenues grew 11% organically.
From a profitability standpoint EBITDA was up 17% and operating profit was up 22% in the quarter with a related margin of 210 and 230 basis points respectively primarily reflecting the flow-through of the strong revenue growth.
As we always remind you small movements in the timing of revenues and expenses can impact margins in any given quarter for the Tax &amp; Accounting business and as such full year margins are more reflective of the segment's underlying performance.
As you can see on this final slide we achieved strong growth in Tax &amp; Accounting for the quarter across all segments.
In particular the Corporate and Professional segments delivered organic growth rates of 14% and 10% respectively.
Now turning to our IP &amp; Science business.
First quarter revenues were 4% with organic growth at 3%.
And each of the IP &amp; Science businesses recorded organic growth for the quarter with Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research performing particularly well and delivering 8% organic revenue growth.
This revenue growth led to a 3% increase in EBITDA with operating profit flat due to a $2 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses.
EBITDA and operating profit margins declined 40 and 90 basis points respectively due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions made in 2013.
And as you can see on this slide the majority of IP &amp; Science revenue is recurring.
During the first quarter recurring revenues represented about 3/4 of the total and it grew 5% 4% organic while transaction revenues in Q1 were up 3% and 2% organically.
Now turning to our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Performance for both revenue growth and profit was in line with our expectations.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues were down 1% with a 2% contribution from acquisitions.
The organic revenue was down 3%.
This organic revenue decline reflected the continued impact of our sales performance over the prior 12 months period.
Now as Jim mentioned the trend line in F&amp;R's net sales performance is encouraging as the first quarter net sales although still negative were better than the prior-year period with the Americas and Asia both positive and we anticipate this gradually improving trend to continue over the balance of the year.
The EBITDA margin and operating margins were both up 260 basis points and the primary driver of the improvement was lower onetime cost compared to the prior year period.
Excluding onetime costs from both periods the EBITDA margin for F&amp;R was down 60 basis points primarily due to the flow-through of the 3% decline in organic revenue.
We anticipate seeing year-on-year margin improvement for the balance of the year as expense savings have a greater impact as we progress through to 2014.
And one of the key reasons we expect to see such a margin improvement over the balance of the year is related to the benefits resulting from the actions we took in the fourth quarter of last year.
We continue to realize savings from the headcount reductions related to platform shutdowns and other efficiency initiatives implemented over the last 18 months.
However the margin impact of the savings actions we announced at the end of last year will be greater as 2014 progresses.
This chart shows that at as we have simplified and continue to simplify the Financial &amp; Risk organization our headcount continues to decrease.
As we mentioned during our recent Investor Day we are targeting a 20% reduction over a 2-year period.
For perspective F&amp;R headcount stood at around 19 400 at the end of the first quarter and is expected to be at around 18 500 by the end of the year.
Looking at the Financial &amp; Risk revenue in a bit more detail.
Recurring revenues which were 76% of the total declined 2% during the quarter 3% organically.
This decline was the result of the negative net sales performance in 2013.
Transaction revenues 13% of the total increased 3% but it went down 4% on an organic basis as a result of lower foreign exchange values across the industry.
Recoveries about 11% of total revenues declined 1% and as a reminder recoveries are low-margin revenues.
Looking at revenues for the first quarter by geography.
Europe Middle East and Africa which represents F&amp;R's largest geographic segment was down 3% reflecting the continuing challenges particularly in the European banking sector.
Revenues in the Americas were flat and revenues in Asia were up 1%.
Now let me turn to the review of our consolidated results.
First quarter adjusted EPS was $0.46 per share $0.08 higher than a year ago.
This $0.08 increase was attributable to higher operating profit which was primarily driven by lower charges partially offset by a slightly higher tax rate.
For the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance for interest expense of between $450 million and $475 million as well as an effective tax rate for the year of between 13% and 15%.
Turning to free cash flow.
The first quarter is usually our weakest quarter from a cash generation perspective and this quarter was no exception.
It is not reflective of what we expect for our full year performance which to remind you is between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion.
While our free cash flow performance in the first quarter was negative it was close to $100 million better than last year despite the negative impact of higher cash severance charges which were about $40 million higher on a year-on-year basis.
Again this is from a cash perspective.
This year-on-year improvement was driven by better working capital performance and by lower capital expenditures.
And finally let me update you on our capital strategy.
During the first quarter we bought back about 8 million shares for a total capital outlay of $264 million.
Though from the announcement of $1 billion buyback program last October through the end of the first quarter we had repurchased over 15 million shares for an aggregate capital outlay of $564 million.
And as Jim mentioned over the past 6 months we had returned nearly $1.1 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends.
Finally at the end of the first quarter our net debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio was 2.3x which was well within our target of 2.5x.
So to wrap up we are pleased with our start of the year.
And based on the first quarter results we are reaffirming our outlook for the full year.
Let me now turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Stephane and that concludes the presentation.
So I'd like now to open the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Drew McReynolds with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just 2 quick ones for me.
Just on the Eikon situation.
I'm just wondering if Frank or Jim you can give us an update just on the kind of number installations and billing terminals that you have.
And then just in terms of the U.S.
legal print obviously down a little bit more modestly this quarter.
Can you help us just understand why the fluctuations in those organic growth declines quarter-to-quarter? Why don't I start with the second question first and then come back -- and I think I'll kick the Eikon question to Stephane if that's okay.
The -- I think the simplest answer on the legal print question is seasonality.
We publish on different cycles throughout the year.
So it just depends upon what the publishing schedules are.
As we've said we still expect that to be more a mid-single-digit decline for the full year and we expect that's influenced by seasonality.
As a kicker into the Eikon number we finished the number roughly in line with where we were at the beginning of the year and that's a net of solid gross sales and some cancellations.
And I would just remind you that this is going to be a little bit of a different journey this year than we had last year where we were working very hard to do a new 1:1 swap out of Xtra 3000s for Eikon.
Now as we begin to move the functionality from the old Thomson ONE products onto the Elektron infrastructure and accessible through the Eikon platform and viewer this will be a slower and steadier journey and one that will be managed to maximize revenue as opposed to just move people as quickly as we possibly can.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if I can just follow up there Jim.
Was that kind of in line with what you're expecting as you kind of kick off the Thomson ONE migration? Yes it is absolutely in line with our expectations.
Our next question is from Sara Gubins with the Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is David Chu for Sara Gubins.
In Legal it appears that some costs were pushed back.
Can you help us think about Legal margins for the rest of the year? Sure David.
It's Stephane answering.
I don't think there's any change to what we said earlier.
I think for the full year we would still expect the Legal EBITDA margin to be flat to maybe down slightly.
And that's really a combination of 2 factors.
One is the revenue mix change which is very favorable from a revenue perspective as the growth businesses are representing a bigger proportion of the total but this growth businesses have a lower margin than the very very profitable U.S.
print and U.S.
online businesses.
And that will be offset by continuing actions efficiency actions that the Legal business will take.
So overall if we can get the Legal business to continue to gradually improve the top line growth as you've seen very much in the first quarter they were up 200 basis points.
I'm not expecting this kind of improvement every quarter we see but it was great to see them move back up from the negative R&amp;D growth we have in the fourth quarter.
That's really our priority in Legal.
And if we can do that while maintaining margins I think that will be our objectives for the Legal business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one follow-up so can you speak to the timing of shutdowns for the data networks? Just wondering how much there is left to do and the timing of these events.
Sure.
I mean like that's very much the area of focus now.
And I think it goes back to the earlier question of Drew right whereas last year we were very focused on transitioning from -- or essentially upgrading all the 3000 Xtra customers onto Eikon which was a much better front-end platform than 3000 Xtras was.
Now we're very focused -- the F&amp;R team is very focused on the simplification of the back end of the system so very focused on the full-tick network.
You remember Tim Collier speaking about that at Investor Day.
There the migration of clients have been fully migrated.
We're still running the platform in parallel for a few more weeks but we're well ahead with that migration.
The next big one is the band-optimized network which we are in the process of migrating.
That one is going to take a little longer.
I would expect that we would be done with this one by the end of this year or very early next year.
And if we do that I think we'll have the largest proportion of our back-end systems on Elektron which is -- which will be really a great achievement.
Our next question is from Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Two-pronged question on the transformation program.
Any further visibility on when you'll identify any restructuring costs and announce those? And secondly I'm wondering as you do all this massive real estate consolidation are you taking a look to customer service? Is there a way to sort of optimize the efficiency and effectiveness of your customer service that I think is pretty fragmented across all your business groups? Are you creating sort of larger call centers as you do this transformation? Yes.
Look that's a great question.
To the first one no.
We're not at a point where we have any further visibility.
We're working the plan and looking at everything.
And we do not at this point anticipate or see any future charges that we haven't announced to this point.
We'll do -- if that opportunity presents itself we'll let you know as soon as we know but we don't see that yet.
As far as the location strategy we think there's a number of positives from looking at our location strategy.
The cost benefits are obvious but our location strategy is really being led by the business teams and it's all about where we want to interface with customers.
It's where we want our talent located and I think there is a real opportunity for us to improve our customer service by reflecting better our customer footprint in our -- where we locate our workforce.
So I think there are a lot of positives to the real estate strategy that we're looking at right now.
We'll go next to William Bird with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you can speak to F&amp;R the wider organic revenue decline seem to somewhat counter to the improving net sales trend you've seen recently.
So I was just was wondering why that is and what you expect going forward.
Sure.
Let me try to take that one.
I think that the -- you're right.
I think that the numbers we publish don't do justice to the progress that's happening on the line and we -- F&amp;R has been at minus 3% organic now for like the last 4 quarters I think if I'm correct.
If you look at the rounding of the number you can see that actually in Q1 of last year they were at like -- I think it was like minus 3.3% or something and this year they're more like minus 2.5%.
So there is underlying improvement.
It's modest but we never expected it to be really accelerated and really flat.
The other point I would make following the first quarter is that there's one piece of the revenue growth that we can't really predict and that's the one that's related to transaction revenues.
And in Q1 of last year you'll remember that transaction revenues were actually up slightly.
Organically I think it was up 2% or 3% and this year they're down 4%.
So that also has a dampening effect on the overall organic growth rate of F&amp;R.
Research Division</strong> And could you speak to what you're seeing in Europe? Look as we said right I think looking at the leading indicator which is net sales Europe was the only region which was still negative in Q1.
So there's a little bit of improvement but it's still by far the region that's pulling us down the most on the F&amp;R business.
The other 2 regions were positive this quarter.
For perspective in Q1 of last year all 3 regions were negative.
So we've seen progress everywhere but the progress has led to essentially a move from negative to positive in Q1 for net sales for the Americas and for Asia but that was not the case yet for Europe.
Our next question is from Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> There's a lot of attention to the desktops within the F&amp;R business.
I was first hoping you could provide us with the percentage of F&amp;R business that's desktop versus the rest and then maybe give us a little bit of color on what you're seeing in terms of trends for feed demand and what the growth rates have been there.
Sure Andre.
I think we've said in the past that the Financial desktop business represents a little less than 50% of F&amp;R's total revenue base so probably around 45% of the revenue base and that's obviously the portion of the business that's declining right now.
The rate of decline is -- from a revenue perspective is still in the mid-single-digit area at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> And with regard to the feeds in terms of what you're seeing in terms of demand for that business? Feeds actually is more of a growth area.
Both the market is growing and our business is growing too.
So demand remains actually quite strong in the feed business.
Research Division</strong> I guess without pushing on specifics then maybe shifting to the tax business doesn't get really discussed very much growth accelerated the last 3 quarters to double-digit on a constant-currency basis.
Could you maybe talk a little bit about the pickup there and whether we should assume that that normalizes back down to the kind of mid-single digits it's tended to be or if there's something special going on that we should assume that continues? I would say that the 10% organic growth really was extremely pleasing for us and it really demonstrates the tremendous work that the management team has done there that the -- through the investments that they have done and more importantly how well accepted the product is.
And you can see that that growth rate is very well balanced across the segments both in the Professional and the Corporate side.
And now the smaller government business is kind of coming back following some of the issues we had last year.
I would expect that for the full year -- I would probably not expect to see like the continuation of double-digit organic growth rate.
I mean that would be quite remarkable but I do think there's -- this is a business that has the potential to grow mid-to-high single digit and that's probably what we would expect for the full year for Tax &amp; Accounting.
We'll go next to Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones for me.
One can you give me a little bit more of an update on Practical Law as you've been deploying that into the U.S.
just want to get a sense of how that's going relative to establishing its footprint here.
And then two just wanted to dive into the improving trends of the net sales a little bit to see if you guys could disaggregate that between trends as far as cancellations moderating or gross sales improving.
Why don't I take the first one and then the second one to Stephane.
Yes I think we're very encouraged by Practical Law in the U.S.
And as we begin -- it's been a very very successful integration for us particularly in the U.K.
And as we've got our editorial teams together in the United States I think we see more and more opportunity to ramp up that kind of practical know-how solution from a Practical Law perspective and incorporate that into our legal solutions at an even faster clip.
So the short answer is that we have exceeded all of our kind of near-term goals for that acquisition and acceptance is proving to be very strong.
And demand for us to ramp up even faster is there.
So that's a big success story for us.
And on the net sales coverage you were asking we have been -- steady improvement in our what we call our gross sales for -- over the last 2 quarters actually.
And the first quarter gross sales were actually -- showed a marked improvement relative to what they were in Q1 last year.
What's offsetting that is the cancellation we continue to see and these cancellation come in like the large accounts as Jim mentioned in his remarks primarily as large banks continue to reduce headcount.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I think that sounds like those cancellations are probably more concentrated within Europe being that's where your sales are still -- the net sales are still negative there but then in the U.S.
would you see that trend stemmed a bit? Yes it probably stems a little bit in the U.S.
absolutely.
I would say overall the retention rate in the first quarter was about flat.
And what we would expect as we mentioned is that as the year progresses we may see some improvement in the retention rate due to the fact that we get a much better and stickier product than what's typical.
And next we have Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> There have been a couple of media reports in the past few months on further expected sell side cuts at certain large banks especially in Europe.
So obviously it isn't a new trend something that's been going on for a while now.
But do you feel the trajectory of net new sales in F&amp;R being more at risk now than you thought last quarter? Or do you feel like the operating environment is still about the same like it's been challenging? I think -- look it's a good question and we see the same headlines that you do.
And obviously we're in constant communication with all those customers and I -- we think that the environment remains challenging.
Our biggest customers are the world's biggest banks and they're hardly in a state of normalcy or back to the good old days.
I think we can all agree to that.
So we think it's a continuing challenging environment but it has been for quite some time and I don't -- it doesn't feel to us like it's worsening.
In fact it -- we are at a point -- and as I said last year where it's not everything getting worse all the time anymore.
There are real positive pockets out there.
And even in a choppy and tough environment we are finding opportunities to grow because whenever we can be in a position to help those big banks who are all struggling with their costs where we can be in a position to help them reduce their cost when we can be in a position to help provide industry utilities that can help take costs out by doing things that they can all no longer afford to do for themselves that's a real opportunity for growth.
So in some ways the current environment has opened the door for us to have broad strategic conversations with our biggest customers that we wouldn't have had 5 years ago because folks are considering a whole range of services.
And while -- we all love a more robust environment for the big sell-side banks I have to say that there is opportunity within the current environment today.
If you look at various pockets if you look at our Risk business for example was up 11% or -- in the first quarter all in.
And that's a positive story for us.
Our compliance products and services the reason we launched this Accelus Org ID product is that we think there's a great deal of opportunity for us to grow there.
So yes I expect it will remain a challenged environment for our largest customers particularly in Europe right now but there's opportunity in that as well.
Our next question is from Tim Casey with BMO.
Could you reconcile your comments on -- you mentioned you thought the you were making tangible progress on the cost side yet you indicated margins were down in the first quarter in F&amp;R if we x out the severance charges.
Could you reconcile those comments for us? Sure Tim.
Let me try to take this one.
Actually the first quarter results were very much in line with what we expected.
And as I mentioned in my remarks that the actions we took at the end of last year will have a greater impact on the expense base as the year progresses.
The simple reason for that I think is that as we've seen -- if you were to look at our headcount number at the end of last year and what it was at the end of the first quarter you see a big decrease.
However because of the way the notification rules work in certain countries particularly in Europe many of the people actually left later in the quarter.
So you didn't see the full impact of the expense benefit in Q1 but it should become more transparent in the second quarter.
We will move on to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Stephane 2 questions.
The $68 million drop in severance in the quarter which -- I mean as you guys are explaining it explains most of the margin improvement irrespective of the $120 million in charges that you're marking for '14 is that -- from a quarterly point of view is that going to be the biggest delta that you see for the remaining of the year on the severance line? Yes with the exception of Q4.
You see we took like a very large severance cost last year also.
But if you exclude that one which we clearly identified there was not a lot in terms of severance nothing really material meaningful in Q2 or Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on Legal.
The 2% decline in online legal is that something you think flattens out as the year goes on? Or how do you see that playing out? Well that was impacted partially by transaction revenue within Westlaw as I mentioned.
So that's a little harder to predict.
The same issue we have in Legal and Financial for the proportion of the revenue base that's transactional in Q1.
This is what we call the ancillary revenue which is really transaction revenues associated with Westlaw show a bigger decline than maybe in prior quarters.
So it really will depend on that aspect I think to see the overall evolution of the core online subscription rate.
That will come from Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification if you could on one thing which is Legal and other thing which is the buyback.
On the buyback side I guess you've noted through quite well you've got only $400 million or so to do in the last 3 quarters.
Does that suggest that you're going to increase the buyback figure? Or if you have room to do so? And the second one was on Legal.
When you look at the 4% for the non-online and the non-print business the 4% organic growth what was the figure for Q4 if you have it for that definition of revenue i.e.
the growth revenues what was the growth rate in Q4 for growth Legal? Matthew let me take the first question the buyback while the team is frenetically researching the answer to your second question.
Hopefully we'll have it by the time I'm done on the buyback issue.
But you're right I mean our intent was to move forward with space on the buyback.
When we announced the program we said quite clearly that our intent was to complete that $1 billion buyback and that it was not like a figure that we would not intend to completely achieve.
I think what's important is you heard through our comments that we've stated very clearly that we view share buyback as another important lever of our overall value-creation toolbox going forward.
So obviously we need to review the next [indiscernible] once we complete the first $1 billion buyback program that you can read from our comments that I think the intent was not to do one and then finish it there.
We will obviously review like the circumstances when we're closer to the end of this $1 billion buyback and see what other costs for capital there might be at the time but as I said share buyback is an important lever for us to create shareholder value by returning capital to shareholders.
And Matthew as it relates to the fourth quarter growth rates for those growth businesses in Legal we'll follow up with you after the call on that.
So that will conclude our call today and we'd like to thank you all very much for joining us.
Thank you and ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available through replay after 10:30 a.m.
today through midnight May 7.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 323915.
International callers dial (320) 365-3844 using the same access code 323915.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call will be recorded.
At this time I'll turn the conference over to your host Senior Vice President Investor Relations Frank Golden.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us this morning as we report our second quarter results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Now throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today I'll discuss the second quarter's results our first half performance and our expectations for the balance of the year.
Stephane will then review the second quarter results in more detail.
Now for results for the quarter.
The second quarter results built upon the good start in the first quarter and our performance for the first half of the year was consistent with our full year expectations.
We remain focused on our overarching objective which is to build a platform to achieve higher and sustainable growth in the future.
Our approach targets 2 areas: first increasing organic revenue by improving execution and fostering innovation; and second simplifying the business to drive scale and provide the resources needed to fund our growth.
I'm confident that this approach will enable us to improve earnings and free cash flow per share.
For the quarter total revenues were up 1% reflecting another exceptional quarter for Tax &amp; Accounting strong growth from IP &amp; Science and improving underlying growth for Legal partly offset by Financial's revenue decline which reflected the lagging impact of negative net sales for the prior 12 months and a decrease in transaction revenues.
Despite this revenue decline our Financial business continues to make progress and broke into positive net sales territory for the quarter.
Net sales have now shown year-over-year improvement in 6 of the last 7 quarters.
And we do expect this improving trend to continue over the balance of the year.
On the cost side we continue to make good progress as evidenced by a 210 basis point improvement in Financial's Q2 EBITDA margin if you exclude charges for both periods.
At the consolidated level both EBITDA and operating income growth were tempered by charges of $30 million in the quarter compared to $9 million in Q2 last year.
Despite the $21 million increase in charges both margins improved slightly.
And if the charges are excluded for both periods then both margins rose 80 and 70 basis points respectively.
Adjusted EPS was $0.51 for the quarter $0.03 better than last year.
We've also continued to return more capital to shareholders.
Since announcing our $1 billion share buyback program last October we repurchased nearly 27 million shares at a cost of about $960 million.
And this morning we also announced our intention to purchase up to an additional $1 billion of stock between now and the end of 2015.
So the trend lines continue to improve and I remain pleased with the trajectory of the business enabling us to reaffirm our full year outlook.
Now let's look at the results by business segment for the quarter.
Financial's revenues declined 2% which was expected in light of the prior 12 months negative net sales performance.
Transaction revenues were down 11% on an organic basis reflecting significantly lower volatility and therefore volumes across global markets including equities credit and foreign exchange.
Since transaction revenues represent about 10% of Financial's total revenues the double-digit decline we experienced this quarter negatively impacted the segment's organic growth rate by over 100 basis points.
Nevertheless the business continues to make significant operational progress particularly around better execution from the front end meaning things like sales service product; to the back end in areas like platforms building account administration.
As mentioned a minute ago net sales were positive in Q2 and were better than the prior year period.
For the first half net sales were also substantially better than the first half of 2013 resulting from better gross sales and improving retention rates due to fewer cancellations.
By geography net sales in both the Americas and Asia were positive for the quarter.
And Europe though slightly negative was substantially better than the second quarter of last year and posted its best quarter in fact in 3 years.
For the full year we continue to forecast better net sales than 2013 which should lead to improving growth next year.
The Legal segment's revenues rose 1% with strong performances from solutions businesses such as Elite Practical Law and FindLaw.
Growth was moderated by a 9% decline in U.S.
print revenues.
If you exclude U.S.
print revenues grew 2% organically which represented a sequential improvement over the 1% growth rate experienced in Q1.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another very strong quarter with revenues up 14% driven by strong growth across the business.
This business continues to benefit from an increasing focus on global taxation and from tax reforms and increased digitization in rapidly developing economies.
We believe these factors will continue to contribute to growth going forward.
IP &amp; Science revenues grew 7% with good growth across the business including subscription revenue growth of 10%.
And our Global Growth businesses continue to perform up 9%.
Let me remind you that the GGO results are included within each of the 4 business segments.
So I'm pleased with our performance for the quarter and the half year.
And now I'd like to share some thoughts about developments for the second half of the year.
2.5 years ago on my first earnings call I discussed how we would go about building a foundation for profitable growth in our Financial business.
And during that time we've made real progress with more to come.
On the cost side our simplification programs are delivering savings which are reflected in Financial's improving margins.
And I'm confident that trend will continue.
Eliminating duplication by closing legacy platforms shuttering data centers and retiring legacy products is enabling us to reduce the number of people who directly support these functions.
This in turn is leading to a more targeted investment helping to improve growth and profitability.
On the revenue side the economic environment hasn't made it easy.
But against that we've been making strong advances in products better enhancing our market position leading to the improving trend in net sales.
And the improving trend in net sales reflects a better customer experience resulting from better products and services which in turn is driving higher retention rates.
Customers now have increased confidence that we can deliver on our promises.
So from this stronger position we're now in the process of migrating our remaining legacy users to new products and packages on the unified platform.
These migrations are in the early stages but the results thus far are encouraging.
In some instances while the tiered packaging may lead to lower price realization for some customers we believe the benefits we expect to realize on the cost side from simplification i.e.
closing more legacy platforms and on the revenue side from improving net sales trends greater pricing discipline and annual price increases will all contribute to top line growth and higher margins.
For obvious competitive reasons we don't want to be too specific here.
But suffice it to say we continue to be encouraged by the underlying trends in the business.
In conclusion let me say that our first half performance was encouraging and confirmed that we are on track.
And 6 months through the year we're seeing the benefits of our simplification initiatives in the Financial business reflected in its improving net sales trends and increasing margins.
So as we look to the second half of the year and 2015 we will pick up the pace to simplify and streamline our organization to shift resources behind the most promising growth opportunities and to use every tool at our disposal to drive value creation for all our stakeholders.
Now let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim and good morning or good afternoon to you all.
As we always do I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
This first summary slide provides a snapshot of our second quarter and 6 months results which do reflect the impact of the charges we took during the first half of the year.
As mentioned in our press release these charges had a $30 million impact at the EBITDA level for the second quarter and a $40 million impact for the first 6 months.
For the comparable periods last year we incurred charges of $9 million and $87 million respectively.
And we still expect full year charges to total approximately $120 million.
Now second quarter revenues were up 1% with flat organic revenue growth.
This is in line with our guidance for flat revenue growth for the full year.
Our Financial &amp; Risk segment declined 2% and was down 3% organically while our other businesses grew 5% in aggregate during the quarter and 3% organically.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was up 2% with an EBITDA margin of 27.8% up 20 basis points from the prior year period.
Excluding charges from both periods the EBITDA margin was 28.7% in the second quarter compared to 27.9% last year.
This 80 basis point improvement was primarily the result of cost savings related to the ongoing simplification efforts in our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Foreign exchange had a 10 basis points positive impact on the margin this quarter.
Finally underlying operating profit increased 2%.
And excluding the charges it was 6% with the margin up 70 basis points from last year.
We continue to expect margins for the full year to be within the guidance we provided in February with the second half a bit lower than the first half due to the timing of some expenses and also due to higher charges.
Based on our $120 million projection for the full year and the $40 million spent so far this year charges in the second half of the year are expected to be around $80 million or twice the level incurred to date.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with our Legal segment.
Demand in the U.S.
legal market as measured by our Peer Monitor Index was up slightly the second consecutive quarter of improvement with 3 of the last 4 quarters showing growth.
During the quarter Legal grew 1% and was flat on an organic basis.
As expected U.S.
print revenues continued to be a drag on revenue growth declining 9%.
Excluding the impact of U.S.
print revenue rose 3% and rose 2% organically which was a sequential improvement over the 1% organic growth rate experienced during the first quarter.
Transaction revenues which is 11% of the total were down 10% all organic.
And subscription revenues which is about 3/4 of the total were up 5% and were up 4% organically.
The strong organic growth performance of our subscription revenue base during the quarter illustrates the improving trends we are seeing in our Legal business.
For the third quarter we anticipate that print revenues will again decline in the upper single-digit range versus Q3 last year.
And we also continue to expect full year print revenues to be down mid- to high single-digits.
Turning to profitability metrics.
Both EBITDA and operating profit increased 2% during the quarter with margins increasing 40 and 60 basis points respectively.
The Legal business continues to do an excellent job of maintaining margins against a backdrop of challenging revenue mix namely the decline in our highly profitable print revenue.
Now here's a more detailed look at the revenue performance of the 3 main subsegments in our Legal business.
This graph provides a good depiction of the changing revenue mix dynamics as our solution businesses become an increasingly larger proportion of the total.
As a reminder the solution businesses consist of everything except core legal research in the U.S.
In aggregate they made up around 45% of Legal's revenue base in the second quarter up from 43% last year.
And they grew 6% 5% organically driven by strong growth in Elite FindLaw and Practical Law.
U.S.
print revenues which represent about 16% of the total were down 9% as mentioned earlier.
And finally U.S.
online legal information which is 39% of the total declined by 1% again a modest but encouraging improvement from the first quarter.
Turning to our Tax &amp; Accounting business.
That segment delivered another very strong quarter.
Revenues grew 14% of which 10% was organic.
This in part reflected an easier comparison to the second quarter of last year which as you may recall was impacted by a large decline in our government business.
Excluding government organic growth was 6% in the second quarter.
Recurring revenues about 80% of the total grew 7% organically.
From a profitability standpoint EBITDA was up 13% in the quarter with the related margin flat due to acquisition dilution and reinvestments we are making in what is one of our highest growth businesses.
For the 6 months period the EBITDA margin increased 110 basis points.
Operating profit was up 14% in the quarter with the related margin up 30 basis points.
As we always say full year margins are more reflective of the segment's underlying performance as small movements in the timing of revenues and expenses can impact margins in any given quarter.
As you can see on this next slide we achieved strong growth in most segments of our Tax &amp; Accounting business for the quarter.
In particular the corporate segment delivered organic revenue growth of 11%.
Professional was up 5% a good performance given the difficult prior year comparison when revenues increased 13%.
And Knowledge Solutions revenues grew 2% and were flat organically.
Finally as I just mentioned Government revenues were up significantly but it continued to represent a fairly small percentage of Tax &amp; Accounting's total revenue base.
Our IP &amp; Science business recorded a strong quarter with revenues up 7% and organic growth up 5%.
This performance was driven by strong organic growth in Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research and IP Solutions which delivered organic growth rates of 10% and 6% respectively.
This revenue growth led to an 8% increase in EBITDA and a 5% increase in operating profit.
The EBITDA margin was up 10 basis points and the operating profit margin declined 50 basis points due to the impact of last year's acquisitions.
During the second quarter recurring revenues represented about 3/4 of the total IP &amp; Science revenues and grew 10% 8% organically while transaction revenues in the second quarter were down 1%.
They were down 3% organically.
Now turning to the second quarter results for Financial &amp; Risk business.
Revenues were down 2% with a 1% contribution from acquisitions so organic revenue was down 3%.
This organic revenue decline reflected the continued impact of our sales performance over the prior 12 months which we expected as well as an 11% decline in organic transaction revenues which was the result of very low volatility levels in many of our markets.
As Jim discussed earlier net sales were positive for the second quarter.
And overall net sales continued to reflect a gradually improving trend driven primarily by improved retention rates.
The EBITDA and operating profit margins were both up 40 basis points despite incurring charges this quarter of $30 million versus $3 million last year.
Excluding charges from both periods the EBITDA and operating profit margins were each up over 200 basis points.
The primary driver of this improvement in margins is the ongoing simplification efforts which result in a gradual reduction in technology real estate and people costs.
As mentioned on the first quarter call we expect Financial &amp; Risk's headcount to be less than 19 000 by year end which would represent a 20% reduction from the 23 000 level we had at the beginning of 2012.
Looking at the Financial &amp; Risk revenue in a bit more detail.
Recurring revenues which were 76% of the total declined 2% during the quarter.
And this decline was the result of the negative net sales in the prior 12 months.
Recoveries about 11% of total revenues were flat for the quarter.
And as a reminder recoveries are low-margin revenues.
And finally transaction revenues which is 13% of the total decreased 4% and they were down 11% on an organic basis reflecting a steep decline in overall market volatility.
This is consistent with what many banks have reported for the second quarter with revenue from fixed income foreign exchange and equity sales and trading down double-digits as low volatility depressed market volumes.
And the chart on the right of this slide shows that the current volatility levels are close to the lowest level they have been in the last 25 years.
Now looking at revenues for the second quarter by geography.
Europe Middle East and Africa which represents Financial &amp; Risk's larger geographic segment was down 4% reflecting the impact of last year's negative net sales in Europe as the region saw industry consolidation and cost cutting.
Revenues in the Americas were down 1% and down 4% organically.
Now 2/3 of Financial &amp; Risk's transaction revenues come from the Americas.
Therefore the lower transaction volumes have a disproportionate effect on this region.
Excluding transaction revenues in the quarter Americas organic revenues declined 2%.
And revenues in Asia were up 1% and were flat organically.
Once again this reflected the 2013 net sales flow-through offsetting the revenue impact of the positive net sales we have seen in the first 2 quarters of this year.
Now let me turn to the review of our consolidated results.
Second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.51 per share $0.03 higher than a year ago.
The $0.03 increase was attributable to higher operating profit and lower interest expense offset by a slightly higher tax rate 14% versus 9% last year.
For the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance for interest expense of between $450 million and $475 million as well as an effective tax rate for the year of between 13% and 15%.
Now turning to our free cash flow performance for the first half of the year and working from the bottom to the top of this slide.
Free cash flow from the first 6 months of the year was $517 million.
This included $159 million of simplification cash costs as well as a decrease of $53 million of cash related to disposals.
As such ongoing free cash flow excluding the impact of disposals was up 15% during the first half and ongoing free cash flow excluding the impact of the simplification charges was $677 million $130 million higher than the prior year period which represented a 24% increase.
The strong free cash flow generation profile of our business enables us to fund growth investments internally while at the same time returning capital to shareholders.
As Jim discussed earlier we bought back nearly $1 billion of stocks since we announced our current share buyback program last October.
And this morning we announced the start of an additional $1 billion buyback program which we expect to complete by the end of 2015.
This additional buyback program is consistent with our stated intention to focus on driving organic growth and pursuing scale initiatives across our business which enables us to return more capital to our shareholders.
And finally as you can see from the chart on this slide we expect to be in a position to execute this additional buyback program while staying within our 2.5x net debt to adjusted EBITDA target.
So to wrap up we are pleased with our first half financial results.
And based on those results we are reaffirming our outlook for the full year.
With that let me now turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks Stephane and Jim.
And we'd like to open the call for questions.
So operator if we could have the first question please? Our first question is from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide us a bit more color on net sales particularly what you're seeing in Europe in F&amp;R? Really nice to hear that the declines continued to get better there.
Maybe breaking it out between regional versus larger players and just the tone of what they're talking about has been [ph] to the back half of the year? So Sara let me try to address that question.
As Jim said I think net sales were positive in the Americas and Asia for the second quarter and they were still negative in Europe.
But actually Europe saw the biggest improvement.
They were significantly better in Europe than in Q1 and than in Q2 last year.
I'd say generally speaking the positive trend we are seeing in net sales is driven both by a slight improvement in what we call gross sales but primarily driven -- and improvement is like single-digit I would say in percentage terms and a strong improvement in cancellations.
That is the cancellations are declining at a rate which is double-digit in the first half.
So that's really what's driving the sales performance so it's driving by an improvement in our retention rate overall.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately on Legal margins.
The margins have outperformed our expectations for the first half of the year which is good to see given the declines in print.
Could you talk about how you're getting there and help us think about what Legal margins might look like in the back half of the year? Yes.
I mean I would give you the same guidance as we've always given which is that we expect margins for Legal for the full year to be roughly flat in aggregate.
So I think that what you see in the first half reflects really pretty strict cost control from the Legal business.
We do want to continue to invest behind the growth areas of the business as we're doing elsewhere in the business.
So there will be some investments for growth in the second half.
But overall within that constraint that I just mentioned we want to essentially maximize investment for growth while maintaining margins in that business.
Research Division</strong> So given the strength in the first half margins might be down in the second on investments? They might be.
Yes.
Next question comes from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up from the previous question just on net sales.
Stephane can you just comment broadly are you seeing an improvement in the operating environment? Or are you getting kind of more market share gains within each category? Or is it a combination of both? And just -- can you comment on the Thomson ONE migration? Obviously this one is going to take a few years as customer contracts roll off? Are you gaining reasonable visibility on retention rates as you migrate that Thomson ONE terminal to Eikon? Yes.
Let me -- Jim here Drew.
If you don't mind let me provide a little color on that one and Stephane can follow up on any specifics that I miss.
I don't think there's any one thing that I can point to.
We do not see a marked improvement or change in the market dynamics.
That said we have seen now for some time the past several quarters a better market environment in the Americas a strengthening market environment in particular our sales execution in Asia.
We've seen it as I mentioned I believe on the last quarter call if you looked at the long tail of our business in Europe that began to stabilize over the last couple of quarters and now we're seeing some bottoming out I think of activity with the largest European players.
That said it's also been down to some really good sales execution by our sales teams.
And frankly it's the better product that we're rolling out leading to increased retention rates.
So it all kind of goes together.
If I had to sum it up I would say it's a result of us executing better in a still-tough environment.
That's the headline I'd wrap around it.
And I think as we now move to the buy side it will be a longer process.
And I mentioned that earlier in my remarks because it's not the same process as going through just switching out Eikons at same price points.
We're moving multiple products on to common platforms.
And I think as I said we're very early into this journey and we're working with our customers as we begin that migration.
We're encouraged by the way it's starting out.
We're encouraged that we're going to have an opportunity to construct some attractive product offerings and services particularly on the buy side.
But it's still early -- it's still early days to talk about what that will look like and they have a track record there just in early days encouraged.
Our next question is from the line of William Bird with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just give us your thoughts on the durability of the positive net sales for F&amp;R.
And separately could you also talk about kind of how the business is trending in desktop? Are there any proof points that you'd highlight that suggest improved competitiveness? I think -- boy we've been floating around that positive line over the past -- over several quarters of even up down up down.
I think what I do believe is that the trends of improvement against prior quarters will continue.
That's certainly what we expect.
We're seeing improvements because when you look at the dynamics driving that we expect to see continued improvement.
As to whether or not that is positive improvement in any particular quarter in the current environment that can turn on 1 or 2 contract negotiations.
So I'm hesitant to call each and every quarter particularly in the fragile kind of environment that we're dealing in right now.
All that said underlying I do believe we're going to see continued improvement in that sales performance.
And we're pretty confident in that Bill.
And as far as proof points go the only ones I can point to -- and I don't want to get into specific customer examples.
I can just say that we have improved competitive position across the board.
We monitor our head-to-head bake-offs with our customers.
And we're in a position now where we're winning our fair share of those competitive head-to-head bake-offs with competitors.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify on the positive net sales did you see improvement in both desktop and enterprise? You know what I don't have these details handy.
Let us check on that and get back to you Bill.
I don't know what the answer is on that.
I would suspect the answer would be yes but we will confirm.
Our next questions will come from the line of Manav Patnaik with Barclays Global.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Greg calling out for Manav.
I want to talk on Legal.
During your Investor Day you talked about potential synergies from integrating your information assets like Westlaw with some of the software and solutions offerings.
I was just wondering what inning we are there and what you view as the ultimate opportunity.
Sure.
I'd say that we're in early innings there as we're just beginning -- as we're really beginning that journey.
And I think that the ultimate opportunities is pretty big.
And again I guess for competitive reasons and the fact that we're in the early earnings I don't want to telegraph exactly what the product pipeline might look like there.
But we've already begun to put more software solutions around Westlaw in going into the small law firm market.
We see great opportunities to take commercial data from our Financial business and wrap that into solutions for law firms as well.
Those are active products that we have in development and testing with large law firm customers right now.
We think there's great opportunity in the corporate sector to combine both legal information around business development tools and analytics.
So we think there's a very solid opportunity there but we're in early innings of focusing our resources behind those development efforts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe big picture on what you're seeing from the U.S.
legal industry both in terms of profitability and headcount what you're seeing there and how that's impacting the business.
Look I think it's still a challenging environment there.
And we're obviously very closely woven into the fabric of that industry and very in tune with trends there.
I would say there is a recognition across the industry that the world has changed and that we are operating in a different environment.
That said we've seen demand now up for a couple of quarters in a row which is encouraging not massively so.
We've seen some of the big profit drivers the drivers like litigation in the U.S.
be subdued continue to be subdued.
So that's putting a lot of pressure on.
But we've also seen some hiring pick-up it looks like as well which would be in front of the trend of demand pick-up.
So I would hope that a lot of firms are anticipating things getting I think steadily better in the space.
But I think it's going to be a challenging environment in the Legal space.
It's a changed environment in the Legal space like most everything else since 2008.
Next we will take questions from Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
If I can just pin you down specifically if the trends in net sales in F&amp;R continue to get better every quarter you were positive in Q3 last year.
So does that mean you would explicitly expect positive again in Q3 this year? Vince it's a good question.
As Jim said we do expect the positive trend to continue.
We do really don't want to call 1 quarter separately.
But we certainly do expect that if you look at the second half as a whole compared to second half of last year it will be better.
Okay.
And given you continue to get better retention and I think your customer satisfaction is improving as you get the new products rolled out do you have any thoughts about rate increases for January of 2015? Do you think you could start to sort of harvest some of this better product quality you have with better rate increases? I think it's way too early to be thinking about that as we put our plans together.
I frankly think that we -- if you look at the overall installed base that we have I'm more focused on what a 1 percentage point improvement in retention could do for our business plus constructing attractive packages for people who aren't customers today.
So I think we're going to be very very cognizant of the market that we live in.
And frankly there are a lot of other benefits that we can get on price that come from just broader price discipline across the whole of the organization as opposed to what a headline rate increase might look like.
So that wouldn't be our top priority at the moment Vince.
Yes that's fair.
And last one Stephane just a clarification.
The foreign exchange in this quarter you've got a bit of a boost to revenue.
Was there any material impact on EBITDA from FX swings? I think I mentioned it was about 10 basis points for the quarter.
It was 10 bps positive yes.
We'll go now to the line of Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question on the timing of restructuring costs because looking like with restructuring costs coming in at about $40 million year-to-date so it seems like for the $120 million that things are going to be a little bit more back half-weighted for the year.
Just given that back half-weighting of the restructuring costs should we continue -- or do we need to change how we should continue to think about the 30% EBITDA margin target that you previously stated for F&amp;R? Or would there be like a timing change there or should we still think about that in the way you originally phrased it? No.
I don't think you should -- that should trigger any change to the target.
As we get the cost in this year we should see the benefit next year.
Next we'll take questions from Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You've been buying back a lot of stock over the past few quarters.
And so how should we be think about the trajectory for the next $1 billion program? Should we expect it would be a slower or a similar pace? Right.
So that's a hard question to answer Toni.
I mean you see what we've done right? We announced the buyback.
At the time we announced it we got questions on whether our intent was to complete that buyback or not.
Our actions speak louder than words obviously.
So I would say we have absolutely the same intent for the second buyback that we just announced which is to complete it.
How quickly can we do that? That will depend on a number of factors market conditions and elsewhere.
But we do intend to continue to buy the stocks certainly.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then your adjusted EBITDA margin in the first half was 27% so the top of your guidance range.
Just walk me through like did you consider raising the range? And why or why not? So we're keeping the guidance very much where it is.
And as I mentioned in my remarks I would expect margins probably to be a bit lower in the second half than they are in the first half.
And the biggest factor for that is what the prior question was getting at precisely which is if you look at the one-time costs our margin guidance does include the $120 million of one-time costs that we expect for this year.
In the first half we spent $40 million.
So if you make the math that indicates that in the second quarter (sic)[half] one-time costs should be $80 million or thereabout or twice the level what we spent in the first half.
So that will have an impact on margin of course.
We'll go to the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Tax &amp; Accounting obviously the fastest-growing business.
Can you talk about the sustainability there and your efforts to expand that franchise geographically? Sure.
We think it's imminently sustainable because -- and the growth rate -- to start with we have a very solid professional business serving the professional accountant space in the United States and that's been a consistent mid- to high single-digit grower for us kind of year-after-year.
And we're very very pleased with that business.
The real growth has come from our expansion outside of the United States.
And we've been able to do that pretty dramatically over the last few years from basically being a U.S.
domestic business to now almost 20% of the revenues are now coming from outside the United States.
And we're doing that really by following our corporate customers around the globe in the build-out of that Global Tax workstation which was a combination of organic build to put it together and some key acquisitions over several years.
And as the global economy gets knit tighter together more and more corporate customers need solutions for multiple geographies.
And we've got a great platform that scales and some good businesses capabilities and analytics on the ground that we just think that that's a very attractive business that has all kinds of room to grow.
And as I think Stephane mentioned in his remarks we've actually added resource there to hold -- while we've seen underlying margins in that business had expanded we've allowed that business to hold margins flat so we can invest in feet on the street particularly in growth geographies so we can gain even greater scale there.
So we think there are a lot of good -- we talk about headwinds in certain sectors of our business that are out there.
We think our kind of Global Tax and trade businesses have a lot of tailwinds there pushing them along.
And we're investing heavily behind those.
At the same time we're working to control cost across the business.
Do you notionally have any targets as to what you think the non-U.S.
business -- do you think of that 20% ratio becoming 50%? Or do you think about it in those terms? Well I hope the U.S.
business continues to grow as well.
So I hope it becomes bigger.
I suspect it will become a greater percentage.
But I'd like to see the U.S.
business continue to grow as well.
So the percentage might not get to that kind of -- same kind of level.
But it well could be -- get to a place where it's 1/3 of the business or so I would guess.
Our next question is from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Jim I'm trying to understand the arithmetic of the positive net new sales.
You've highlighted 5 of the last 6 quarters have been positive.
But it doesn't look like the total organic revenue growth number has really moved meaningfully.
And I think that's true for the subscription-based revenues too.
So am I missing something? Peter I mean we haven't said that net sales have been positive over the last 6 quarters.
We've said that net sales showed an improvement in 6 out of the last 7 quarters.
But if my recollection is correct they've only been positive this quarter and in Q3 of last year.
So they've been negative for most of the quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got it.
Sorry my mistake.
And then Stephane can you remind me the mix in your business in F&amp;R between buy side and sell side? And would you call out significant differences in performance in the 2 businesses? Sure.
It's been predominantly on the sell side which has been obviously under more pressure from a market perspective than the buy side.
As a matter of fact we are now as Jim said in the process of starting to convert and migrate our buy-side customer base on the new unified platform but that's a much smaller proportion of the total segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last thing at the risk of incurring the wrath of Frank here the comment on the tax rate Stephane I think you said 13% 14% for the year.
You're obviously running below that in the early parts of the year.
So implication is tax rate takes a fairly meaningful step-up in the second half? No.
The guidance is 13% to 15% for the full year.
And year-to-date I think we are about 14% so [indiscernible].
We'll go to the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Jim the F&amp;R results are pretty impressive given as you cite the transaction pressure in the low-vol environment.
So I guess my question is if low vol continues in the second half what is sort of in order of importance FX commodities et cetera? What are sort of the top 3 vulnerabilities for you on the transaction side of the F&amp;R business? Sure.
Let me try to answer that question Doug.
If you look at the transaction revenue base of F&amp;R it's about $800 million a year right? I'd say above -- and that's divided by what I would broadly speak about buy side and sell side.
So about 40% of that base is more buy side-related.
These are things like FXall for instance.
And the buy side is not that affected by the volatility levels in the market.
Corporate treasurers will continue to hedge on whatever rolling basis they have 12 months 2 years whatever regardless of market volatility.
It's on the other side that the lack of market volatility essentially -- I mean volume rather is driven by the need of portfolio managers or asset managers to rebalance the portfolio.
When there's no volatility there's much less need of rebalancing which drives trading volumes down.
So where we are most impacted by that would be our foreign exchange dealing platform.
Tradeweb on the foreign exchange transaction piece of the business is also impacted.
And as I said that's about 60% of the transaction revenue base.
So hopefully that helps you calibrate what we're dealing with here.
Next we'll go to the line of Aravinda Galappatthige with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just with respect to the cost reduction in F&amp;R I mean we've seen a fair bit of restructuring particularly in Q4.
How should we think about the cadence of the lower cost? I mean I saw a lot more cost reduction in Q2 if I look at the OpEx in F&amp;R that we saw in Q1 on a year-to-year basis.
Does Q2 sort of encapsulate all the restructuring work in Q4? Or is there more to go as sort of the timing scales down? It's a very good question.
As we've said right we are on a trend towards that goal of nearing 30% margin that we've stated before.
The progress that you're going to see on a quarterly basis will be uneven because it really depends on when you can retire a product or -- it really happens in like big shifts here and there.
So Q2 was a very good quarter most definitely.
I would say there's going to be like probably if you look at what we've discussed in terms of platform shutdown we should see an improvement towards the -- I would say the end of the first half of next year should be quite -- that's where I would expect like another big improvement related to the elimination of these platform we talked about the band [ph] optimized network platform.
That one is in the process of being converted to Elektron.
We've got to run the platforms on a dual basis for a while.
And then once our customers are comfortable with the new platform essentially you can shut down the old one.
And that's when you see a lot of the savings.
So a long-winded answer to say you will have some variances from quarter-to-quarter.
What's important to look at is really the trend and what happens over a 12-month period.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick clarification.
Americas and Asia with respect to net sales do you see a quarter-over-quarter improvement there as well? Yes.
We'll go to the line of Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> The question I have is on the Legal side which is you pointed towards the Peer Monitor improvements.
My question really is do you think -- or over what timescale could we see an improvement in the online research growth rates? That's really the question because obviously you've got quite a lot of products within the Legal business.
So when you're talking about improved headcount slightly better environment in Legal how quickly could we see an improvement in the online legal research business? Sure.
It's a good question.
Online research is really 2 components: the print base which is about $500 million in annual revenue base that one I would characterize as being in structural decline so we are going to continue to see declines every quarter; and the online piece which is obviously much larger about $1.2 billion or so in the U.S.
And we're starting to see some improvement there.
If you look at the rate of growth of that component in one of the slides we have in the presentation you can see that the decline was 1%.
And that was a progress from last quarter where the decline was 2%.
So you're starting to see some progression there.
And I think that's a reflection of the improving market environment we've seen over last 4 quarters.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that will continue in the next -- so you're thinking maybe Q3 or Q4 we might see a sort of a flat or a positive number for that business? It's going to be gradual but we hope that we're going to continue to see improvement.
Yes.
Okay.
I believe that was our final call.
So that will -- that was the final question rather so that will conclude this quarter's call.
So thanks very much for joining us.
And a reminder today's conference call is available for replay beginning today at 10:30 and running through August 6 at midnight.
You may dial into the replay service 24 hours a day using the toll-free number of (800) 475-6701 or the international U.S.
number of (320) 365-3844 with the access code of 330612.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Thomson Reuters Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'll turn the conference over to our host Frank Golden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning and thanks for joining us as we report our third quarter results.
We'll begin today with our CEO Jim Smith; followed by our CFO Stephane Bello.
Now following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today I'll discuss the third quarter's results and our expectations for the balance of the year.
Stephane will then review the third quarter results in more detail.
Now the results for the quarter.
I am pleased to report even at the risk of sounding like a broken record that the third quarter results were again in line with our expectations and built on the first half's improving trend lines.
In Q3 total revenues were up 1% reflecting another very strong quarter for Tax &amp; Accounting good growth from IP &amp; Science and improving underlying growth for Legal.
As expected revenue growth was negative for the quarter in our Financial business which reflects the lagging impact of aggregate negative net sales in the prior 12 months particularly Q4 last year.
Nevertheless our Financial business continues to make good progress and achieved positive net sales for the second consecutive quarter.
Net sales were positive in all regions and we've now seen year-over-year sales improvement in 7 of the last 8 quarters.
For perspective this is the first time we've seen positive net sales in all regions since the acquisition of Reuters in 2008.
And importantly the third quarter's performance has driven our year-to-date net sales performance into positive territory.
While it's too early to predict whether there'll be net sales positive for the full year because Q4 is always the most difficult quarter we are confident that Q4 net sales will again show year-on-year improvement which is why we expect F&amp;R's revenue growth performance in 2015 to improve over 2014.
We're also very pleased that our Legal business returned to positive organic revenue growth in the quarter for the first time since the second quarter of 2013.
It's very encouraging that the trajectory continues to improve for our 2 largest businesses.
At the consolidated level both EBITDA and operating profit declined 3%.
Unfavorable foreign exchange movements had a higher-than-usual impact on margins in Q3 and we also incurred charges of $18 million in the quarter compared to $10 million in Q3 last year.
Excluding the impact of currency charges in both periods the EBITDA margin declined 10 points and the operating margin increased 20 basis points.
Adjusted EPS was $0.45 for the quarter $0.03 below last year.
We've also continued to return more capital to shareholders.
And as of September 30 we have repurchased over 28 million shares at a cost of over $1 billion since we began the program in October of last year.
So the trend lines continue to improve and I remain pleased with the trajectory of the business enabling us to reaffirm our full year outlook.
Lastly healthier global professional markets and strengthening trends in the business are encouraging but the macro news is still mixed.
Given this environment we are investing in those pockets of growth where we have strong positions and where we can win.
We will continue to do what we've done for the past 2.5 years namely control the things within our control and remain focused on our overarching objective building a platform to achieve higher more sustainable and more profitable growth.
Now let's look to the results by business segment for the quarter.
Financial's revenue's declined 2% as expected.
Let me remind you that last year negative net sales peaked in the fourth quarter and therefore it's challenging to report revenue growth until we lap Q4.
Despite the revenue decline Financial &amp; Risk is a different business than it was 2 years ago.
We've transformed product teams and regional sales organizations to become more focused on customer needs and service delivery.
We've simplified our technology platforms service platforms in supporting IT organization.
We've increased the ratio of frontline staff in our workforce while reducing overall staff by about 20% and we've invested in growth areas such as commodities fees risk.
Our efforts are beginning to yield tangible results.
Customer sentiment has improved as measured by better customer satisfaction ratings.
Retention rates have increased in every region and net sales have improved significantly.
As I've just mentioned year-to-date net sales were positive and we are particularly pleased with the progress being made in Europe where we achieved positive net sales in Q3 for the first time in 3 years.
As I discussed last quarter we're in the early stages of migrating our remaining legacy users to new products and packages on the unified platform.
The early results are encouraging but these migrations may lead to lower price realization for some customers.
This is likely to dampen the overall benefit we would normally expect to realize from our annual price increase.
However we anticipate that the improving trends in net sales will partly mitigate this impact and will contribute to an improvement in top line growth in 2015.
Turning to Legal.
This segment's revenues rose 1% all organic with a strong performance from the solutions businesses which are up 7%.
Growth was tempered by an 8% decline in U.S.
print revenues as expected.
Excluding U.S.
print revenues grew 3% organically.
Stephane will provide more detail on this in a moment.
Tax &amp; Accounting had another very strong quarter with revenues up 13% 9% organic.
This business continues to benefit from increased market demand for global tax solutions and strong execution.
IP &amp; Science revenues grew 3% with subscription revenues up 5%.
It was partly offset by a decline in transactional revenues.
And our Global Growth businesses continued to perform up 8%.
Let me remind you that the GGO results are included within each of the 4 business segments.
So I am pleased with our performance for the quarter and year-to-date.
So as we look to close out the year things are tracking to plan and I continue to be pleased with the substantial progress we're making.
Now despite uncertain macroeconomic and political conditions the global financial and legal markets we serve are steadier now than they've been since 2008.
And these healthier global professional markets combined with our improved products and service are enabling us to achieve better sales performance which underpins our confidence as we look to the future.
While we try not to spend too much time worrying about the things outside our control it's heartening to feel the headwinds subside a bit.
At the same time the things within our control are now starting to pay off.
Lastly our transformation simplification programs are providing us with self-help on the bottom line as we simplify the business and reduce cost.
This is particularly the case in the Financial business where the underlying margins continue to improve on a pre-FX basis despite revenue declines.
When the positive trend in net sales begins to translate into positive revenue growth the flow-through from that revenue growth will contribute to our ability to achieve the financial targets that we laid out previously.
Now let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim and good morning or good afternoon to you all.
As usual I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
These slides provide a snapshot of our third quarter and 9 months results which do reflect the impact of the charges which we flagged earlier this year.
These charges had an $18 million impact at the EBITDA level for the third quarter and a $58 million impact for the first 9 months.
For the comparable periods last year we incurred charges of $10 million and $97 million respectively.
We still expect charges for the full year to total $120 million with about $60 million having being incurred through September.
This effectively means that we expect to incur an additional $60 million in the fourth quarter primarily within our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Our third quarter revenues were up 1% with flat organic revenue growth and this is in line with our guidance for the full year.
Our Financial &amp; Risk segment declined 2% and was down 3% organically while our other businesses grew 4% in aggregate during the third quarter and were up 3% organically.
Adjusted EBITDA was down 3% with an EBITDA margin of 26.5% down 100 basis points from the prior year period.
Excluding charges from both periods the EBITDA margin was 27% in the third quarter compared to 27.8% last year.
As Jim just indicated foreign exchange had a higher-than-usual impact on the EBITDA margin this quarter.
Excluding the impact of currency and the charges from both periods the consolidated EBITDA margin was down 10 basis points compared to Q3 last year.
Finally underlying operating profit in Q3 declined 3% with the margin down 70 basis points.
Excluding currency and charges the consolidated margin was up 20 basis points year-over-year.
We continue to expect margins for the full year to be within the guidance we provided you last February.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with Legal.
Demand for legal services in the U.S.
market as measured by Peer Monitor improved over the second quarter and marks the strongest quarter since Q4 2012.
Transactional practice areas continued to show improvement.
However demand for litigation which is the largest practice area in the U.S.
from a revenue perspective remained below historical averages.
During the quarter Legal grew 1% all organic and this marked the return to organic revenue growth for the first time since the second quarter of 2013.
As expected U.S.
print revenues continued to be a drag on revenue growth declining 8%.
Excluding the impact of U.S.
print revenues rose 3% organically.
I'll get back on this in a moment.
Transactional revenues which represent 12% of the total were up 1% and were flat organically.
Subscription revenues which accounted for about 75% of the total were up 4% and 3% organic.
The continued strong organic performance of our subscription revenues during the quarter is a good indicator of the underlying strength of the business.
Turning to our profitability metrics.
The EBITDA margin was down 10 basis points while the operating profit margin increased 30 basis points.
So the Legal business continues to do an excellent job of maintaining margins against the backdrop of declining U.S.
print revenues which as we have said in the past makes up for a challenging revenue mix.
Now as you can see on this slide the underlying trends in the Legal business are encouraging.
As a reminder U.S.
print revenues represent about 15% of total Legal revenues.
So the graph on this slide shows the gross trend for the remaining 85% of Legal's revenue base.
As I just mentioned Legal's total revenue growth was 1%.
However when we strip out U.S.
print revenues you can clearly see the improving trends in the business on this slide.
The remaining 85% from the Legal revenue base has improved sequentially over the past 4 quarters with a 400 basis points improvement over the last 12 months.
Here's a more detailed look at the revenue performance of the 3 main subsegments in our Legal business.
This graph provides a good depiction of the changing revenue mix dynamics as our solution businesses become an increasingly larger proportion of Legal's total revenue base.
As a reminder these solution businesses consist of everything except U.S.
online legal information and U.S.
print.
In aggregate they made up 47% of Legal's total revenues in the third quarter up from 45% last year.
And they grew 7% 6% organically driven by strong growth in Elite Pangea3 and Practical Law.
U.S.
print revenues were down 8% as mentioned earlier.
And finally U.S.
online legal information which is 38% of total revenues declined 1%.
We had seen a gradual improvement in this business since the beginning of the year and we are encouraged by the slowly improving trajectory.
Our Tax &amp; Accounting business continued to build on its momentum and is having a strong year.
Revenues for Q3 grew 13% of which 9% was organic.
Recurring revenues about 85% of the total grew 8% organically.
From a profitability standpoint EBITDA grew 9% in the quarter while the margin declined 50 basis points due to organic investments we are making in what is our highest-growth business.
As for the 9-month period the EBITDA margin increased 60 basis points.
During the third quarter operating profit was up 26% with the margin up 170 basis points reflecting the impact of lower acquisition-related amortization expenses.
Full year margins are more reflective of the segment's underlying performance and small movements in the timing of revenues and expenses can impact margins in any given quarter.
And as you can see on this slide we achieved strong growth in most segments of our Tax &amp; Accounting business during the quarter.
In particular both the corporate and professional segments delivered organic revenue growth of 11%.
Knowledge Solutions was up 4% and 2% organically and government revenues were up 8%.
IP &amp; Science revenues were up 3% all organic.
This performance was driven by growth across all business segments with Life Sciences displaying the strongest performance up 6% and 5% organically.
EBITDA was down 5% and operating profit declined 11% due to the impact of negative revenue mix as well as some investments we are making in the IP &amp; Science business.
Similar to our Tax &amp; Accounting business full year margins are more reflective of this segment's underlying performance because small movements in the timing of revenues and expenses again can impact margins in any given quarter.
During the third quarter recurring revenues for IP &amp; Science represented about 3/4 of their total revenues and grew 5% all organic.
And transaction revenues in the third quarter were down 4%.
Now turning to the third quarter results for our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Revenues were down 2% with a 1% contribution from acquisitions so organic revenues were down 3%.
This organic revenue decline reflected the continued impact of our aggregate negative net sales performance over the prior 12 months with Q4 of last year having a disproportionate impact on that period.
As Jim discussed earlier net sales were positive in the third quarter and are positive year-to-date.
It is too early to say whether net sales will be positive for the full year but we expect the trend of year-on-year improvement to continue in Q4 as it has in 7 of the last 8 quarters.
Now let me remind you that net sales primarily measures the impact of volume on future revenues.
And as Jim mentioned we recently began migrating our remaining legacy buy side and foreign exchange products to our unified platform which may lead to lower price realization for some customers.
This is likely to dampen the overall benefit we would normally expect to realize from our annual price increase.
However we anticipate that the improving trends in net sales and greater price discipline will partly mitigate this impact and will contribute to a year-on-year improvement in the top line growth performance of our Financial business in 2015.
The EBITDA margin was down 130 basis points with charges of $18 million this quarter versus $5 million last year.
Excluding charges from both periods the EBITDA and operating profit margins were each down 50 basis points versus Q3 of last year.
Now foreign exchange had a significant negative impact on the F&amp;R EBITDA margin this quarter due to our very large cost base in the U.K.
and the strengthening of the pound.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange and the $18 million of charges incurred during the quarter the EBITDA margin would have been 27.1% which would represent an improvement of 100 basis points over Q3 2013.
Now looking at Financial &amp; Risk revenue in a bit more detail.
Recurring revenues which were 76% of the total declined 3% during the quarter and this decline was the result of the negative net sales in the prior 12 months.
Recoveries about 11% of the total were up 1% for the quarter.
And let me remind you that recoveries are low-margin revenues.
Transaction revenues which is 13% of the total increased 3% but were down 5% on an organic basis.
So this is the third consecutive quarter of negative growth in F&amp;R's transactions business this year.
This is due to the low level of volatility we had seen in the markets until very recently.
For the first 9 months of the year transaction revenues were down 6% organically.
Since transaction revenues are highly profitable this is obviously hurting F&amp;R's margin performance which would have been better had transaction revenues been more stable as was the case in prior years.
The silver lining is that we did see a rebound in transaction volumes in the last 10 days of the quarter.
As we said before we do need to see some improvement in the transaction revenues in order for F&amp;R to return to positive growth next year and the fourth quarter will be an important indicator in that regard.
Looking at revenues for the third quarter by geography.
Europe Middle East and Africa which is F&amp;R's largest geographic segment was down 4% reflecting the continued impact of last year's negative net sales.
Revenues in the Americas were flat and down 3% organic due to the net sales flow-through as well as the impact of low fixed-income transaction volumes which predominantly affect this region.
And revenues in Asia were flat and down 1% organically.
Once again this reflected the 2013 net sales flow-through offsetting the revenue impact of the positive sales we had seen in the region for the first 3 quarters of the year.
Now let me turn to the review of our consolidated results.
Third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.45 per share $0.03 lower than a year ago.
The $0.03 decrease was attributable to lower operating profit and a higher tax rate 15% this year versus 11% last year.
Foreign currency and the higher tax rate each added $0.02 negative impact on EPS in the quarter as compared to the prior year period.
For the full year we remain comfortable with our guidance for interest expense of between $450 million and $475 million as well as an effective tax rate of between 13% and 15%.
Now turning to our free cash flow performance for the first 9 months of the year and working from the bottom to the top of this slide.
Free cash flow for the first 9 months of the year was $875 million.
This included $212 million of simplification costs as well as a decrease of $75 million of cash flow related to disposals.
As such ongoing free cash flow excluding the impact of disposals was down 3% during the first 9 months of the year.
And finally ongoing free cash flow excluding the impact of simplification charges was about $1.1 billion or $59 million higher than the prior year period which represented a 6% increase.
So to wrap up we are pleased with our year-to-date financial results.
And based on these results we are reaffirming our outlook for the full year which is summarized on this slide.
With that let me now turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Stephane.
And we'd like now to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So regarding the $120 million in charges that you're expecting for this year we can now see it's largely weighted towards the fourth quarter.
Has there been a delay in your plans for reducing headcount? If you don't hit the $120 million number should we assume that the cost savings will be lower than you originally thought? Or that it'll be delayed? Hi Toni.
It's Stephane.
I wouldn't assume too much out of the timing of these charges.
It's kind of hard to predict with a lot of precision and -- but we do expect based on the visibility we have at this time that we will take the additional $60 million in Q4 and we have obviously better visibility now since we are in the quarter.
And as I mentioned on the call I believe that the majority of these charges will impact our Financial &amp; Risk segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And can you give any additional color on how you're able to maintain the margins in Legal despite the declining print business? It's what I mentioned.
It's a very tough balancing act because what we try to do with our management team in Legal is trying to do is really balance that objective of keeping our margin flat while at the same time making sure that we make sufficient reinvestments in the parts of the business that are growing nicely.
And you can see that they're doing a pretty nice job from both perspectives with the margin being pretty much flat year-to-date while you see good growth in these solution businesses.
So I can only attribute it to really good execution from the management team in the Legal segment.
We'll take questions now from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones from me.
You touched a lot on the net sales trajectory and expectations for Q4 which was great.
Specifically on the Thomson ONE migration can you just kind of flush out a little bit more in terms of what you're seeing with retention rates and pricing dynamics versus kind of what your expectations were going into this? And how far along are you on the migration? And then just on Legal nice to see the continued uptick x print.
Just wondering when you look at the solutions businesses in aggregate are you getting a cyclical tailwind here? Is this new products? Are you gaining market share? Just what's the source of the renewed momentum? Well you take the first one Stephane.
I'll take the second.
Okay.
I'll take the first one Drew.
On the migration -- Let me put into context because I suspect I'm going to get that question later.
So we stated before that desktop revenues represent about 42% of Financial &amp; Risk's total revenue base.
So that's about call it 42% of 6.5 -- $6 billion is about like $2.7 billion.
We have now migrated about almost 60% of that revenue base to Eikon so we got like the balance to migrate.
And that's spread between the buy-side segment and our foreign exchange dealing platform.
Those are agreements to products we're now rolling out on the new platforms.
We've just really started that effort in earnest in the late third quarter and we expect that effort to essentially go through 2015 and be hopefully largely complete by the end of last -- next year.
There may still be some that flow through in '16.
As we said before this is not the same kind of transition as what we did for the 3000 Xtra which has been migrated.
So much more delicate transition to the new platform.
What we've seen and that's why you're seeing the results that we've seen in terms of net sales is why we've rolled out Eikon much more which is the case in Europe you start seeing much higher and better retention rates.
So if you were looking at retention rates in Europe versus the Americas for instance you would see like a marked improvement in Europe because a lot of the desktop footprint is now Eikon in Europe.
And in America you'd see a marked difference between the customers that have been rolled on Eikon with the retention rates are higher and legacy products.
So we do expect to see an improvement in the retention rates in the Americas as we roll out Eikon to the rest of the desktop footprint.
Yes and to your second question on Legal.
I think it's hard to say I mean because it's a combination of factors I think on the Legal side.
It is incredibly encouraging for us to see those solutions of products coming back.
And I think as Stephane alluded as well even the underlying subscription products are showing improved performance as well.
I think part of it is due to better execution inside the business.
There's no question.
I think another part of it -- I'd hate to call it cyclical because it doesn't feel like any cycle I've ever lived through before but we are seeing underlying improvement I think in the Legal space.
Stephane alluded to a couple of consecutive quarters now of improving demand in our Peer Monitor Index.
And I think while we see improvement in -- not only Legal but in all the professional segments that we serve it's hardly back to a robust phase of the cycle and the green shoots are tempered by I think increasing macroeconomic fears particularly when it comes to geopolitical concerns.
So I do think we're getting a little bit of a lift from an improved environment in the professional services firms and industries that we serve and I think we're executing better.
We will now go to the line of Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about the declining transaction volumes that you mentioned within Financial &amp; Risk.
Is that being influenced primarily due to just declining market volatilities? Or is it transition away from the over-the-counter trading towards exchange rates trading and so on on that as well? We believe it's primarily driven by market volatility.
So if we could see a little bit more volatility in the market as we've seen in the last couple of weeks of September and the beginning of October that actually should help transaction revenues.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You mentioned you're making some investments in the area -- in the pockets of growth where you feel you have the ability to win could you give a little bit more detail about where you're investing in the firm currently? Sure.
Although it ranges from putting more resources in our go-to-market or sales force headcount.
That's probably what we're doing for instance in our Tax &amp; Accounting business to investing into new solutions.
For instance in our Governance Risk &amp; Compliance business in Financial &amp; Risk we do make some investments; and in IP &amp; Science we do invest in new solutions.
So it's a mix of go-to-market resources and new solutions.
Question comes from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
First the foreign exchange hit to your margins this quarter.
I know that there's a lot of moving pieces in there in terms of hedging you do and maybe some timing of working capital items.
Do you have any visibility at this point as to what that impact could be in the fourth quarter? Do you expect it to be as negative? I -- no we don't have much visibility.
It's hard to predict what foreign exchange will be.
As I mentioned on the call Vince the largest component is really what I would refer to as short pound sterling exposure.
And as you know that primarily resides within Financial &amp; Risk where we have a lot of our cost base still in the U.K.
So what happened in Q3 if you look at the average rate of the pound sterling against the dollar in the third quarter of this year compared to the third quarter of last year it was up 8%.
And that's really what was the primary driver and we always -- we'll give you what the margin is excluding foreign exchange.
We do that every quarter.
This quarter it had pretty unusually high impact.
I would hope that in future quarters it's more moderate but we'll continue obviously to like point out what the margin is excluding foreign exchange.
Okay appreciate that color.
And the second question in terms of the net sales for the fourth quarter obviously you're a bit cautious in terms of visibility that it can remain positive.
Do you know if there's a significant number of contract renewals in the fourth quarter this year more than you would normally have? Or is it just a normal seasonality in Q4 that gives you the lack of visibility? I think it's more the latter Vince.
For perspective for net sales in the fourth quarter as Jim mentioned the fourth quarter is always the toughest quarter in terms of net sales the most important quarter also.
And as for perspective since the Reuters acquisitions so as long as we can remember net sales have been negative in the fourth quarter.
So turning positive would be a pretty big achievement frankly.
Is it fair to say that once you get Eikon fully rolled out this Q4 headwind you always face may start to dissipate? If you start to have better retention rates then the Q4 contract renewals won't be a negative anymore? I would say that Q4 is probably always going to remain the toughest quarter but once we've got Eikon rolled out the -- like the sales should -- the net sales should be better because obviously the retention rate improves as we roll out Eikon.
We'll go now to the line of Sara Gubins with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you help us think through the impact of the unit pricing because of the migration in terms of maybe magnitude next year? And just trying to understand a little bit more about what is happening with pricing.
Is there a discount to get clients to migrate? Or are they buying fewer products as they do the migration? Well what's going on is that -- and that's also Sara -- it's a good question.
This is also why we have stopped talking about the Eikon migration in terms of number of desktops because what you have you have customers as you know on the buy side we have like a multitude of products and we call this access points.
These access points will all and these products will all be migrated to the Eikon platform.
So a customer that used to buy 3 or 4 discrete products from us may now have one Eikon desktop one Eikon solution.
In some cases as we said this may reduce not only in a vastly improved solution for the customer it may also result in a better commercial situation for them.
It will very much vary from one client to the other so it's hard to predict what the impact is going to be.
But what we think that we're going to see an impact as we're rolling out the buy-side products on Eikon now.
We'll know more as we go -- about what the impact will be as we essentially go through that transition over the course of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Legal the U.S.
print revenue down 8% in the third quarter.
Is it fair to assume that that rate of decline continues? Or does it begin to get better just as the segment shrinks a little bit? I would use that kind of assumptions going forward.
It's a revenue base that is in structural decline.
The good news is that it becomes proportionately smaller and smaller as we go -- as we move on in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question on margins.
Within F&amp;R is there anything that's come up that would suggest that it will either be more difficult or easier for you to make your 2015 margin targets? What we said achieving our margin target for 2015 depends on 2 primary factors: first it's execution on the cost takeout.
And there we are very focused on that and the team is very much on plan in terms of that cost takeout.
The second thing we mentioned is that -- and remember Tim Collier mentioning that at Investor Day we need to see slightly positive revenue growth in 2015 in order to achieve that objective.
That I think will depend on a number of factors.
The 2 biggest ones I can think about is what will our net sales performance be in the fourth quarter and the evolution of transaction revenues.
Transaction revenues are very profitable and frankly as I said on the call we need them to get a bit more normalized in order to get where we need to be.
So we should have better visibility on these 2 items when we talk to you in early February and we provide the guidance for 2015.
We will go now to the line of Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One more question on Eikon specifically the efforts to penetrate kind of new buckets of buy-side clients.
I know you've called out PWM as an area in the past.
I was wondering how that effort is progressing.
And any color on which types of clients whether it be by investment type size or geography where you expect to see the most success? I think historically what we've seen in places where we're most fit for purpose across Europe for example we're having pretty good success across the board.
We have success again via asset classes and by groups of customers where we have very very strong differentiated content.
Commodities and energy would be a good example of an area on where we're strong.
And I think we continue to develop now around those areas where we have differentiated content.
So I don't want to go into too great a detail about what the rollout plans will be because we're in the early days there.
But suffice it to say we'll build behind areas where we're strong first and then at the same time be building out capability in other areas.
And as Stephane alluded earlier this is really early days of our move on the buy side.
We're still doing a lot of building and we're just beginning selling on the FX side and just beginning selling in the Americas on the buy side generally.
So early days again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think you talked a fair amount about Legal organic growth improving as the mix improves with the growth of your businesses that you call solutions becoming a bigger part of the bucket.
Is there anything that you're seeing in terms of client interest or end market demand that would say specifically that part of the business should accelerate from that mid-single digit organic growth that we're seeing now? Or should we simply assume it remains there and Legal improvement is simply a matter of mix? Andre let me try to take that question.
If you look at what we call solutions businesses it's a number of different businesses.
So that would include Practical Law Elite FindLaw or emerging markets.
If you look at them each separately they all have the potential to grow more than the 5% 6% organic we've seen recently.
However -- I mean what the standing assumption should be is that not everything is always going to run at 100%.
There's always going to be one or the other of these segments that may be in a cyclical period of weakness.
So if we can get that overall revenue base to grow in aggregate by 5% 6% organically we actually would be very pleased.
We'll now go to the line of Paul Steep with Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Jim or Stephane either one of you.
As things sort of emerge and it looks like trends are improving through '14 how much are you thinking about in your '15 planning process that you're now starting getting more aggressive and sort of accelerating investments in key areas of the business? And maybe within that context what's your comfort with the overall portfolio at this point? Is there a thought to maybe returning to more M&amp;A or divestitures? We're very comfortable with the portfolio that we have and we're very comfortable with the plan we're executing right now which means we're being very aggressive on the cost base across the base of the company while picking those key selected areas where we believe we have higher growth opportunities and a higher chance to win.
We don't believe that requires stepping back into the M&amp;A game at the level we were at historically or in the past few years.
And we do believe that within the spending envelope that we have that we have sufficient resources to fund the growth initiatives that we find so attractive.
So it's really hand in glove.
It's -- we're able to provide some self-help not only to our bottom line but to free up resources and to make kind of pretty difficult and sometimes ruthless reallocation decisions on where we're going to put our resources.
So we've seen those shortage of growth opportunities within the businesses that we have today and we don't think we need to go out and be acquiring new fields in which to play.
We'll go to the line of Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's nice to hear your commentary earlier on the positive net sales sort of across all regions and geographies I think is what you mentioned.
I was wondering if you could help us just parse things out a little bit in terms of the environment.
Obviously on the equity side we've heard on the buy side at least some improved momentum.
Can you just help talk about the sell side? And just also in the context of you hear a lot of pressure and layoffs on the fixed income side of the business maybe not as much in equity.
So maybe just a little bit more color on what dynamics you're seeing in the overall environment? Sure.
I hate to disappoint on that one.
But I think frankly we saw pretty solid strength across the face of our customer base so I don't think it broke down.
I can't provide much more color on that because if I remember and distribution chart I saw particularly on the sales side it looked to be improving across the board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess can you just remind us the fourth quarter like why that's again the toughest for net sales? Is that just because a lot of the contract renewals get redone? Is that what it is? I think it's like a lot of our large customers that's really when they look at their budget for the next year and that's where they tend to make adjustments.
We'll go to the line now of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Jim or Stephane is it possible could you give us any finer quantification of the net new sales number in the third quarter and the change from the second quarter? We've never given out the aggregate net sales numbers or the exact numbers.
So I don't think we want to start doing that now.
Research Division</strong> It would be a great day to start.
And how dependent for the fourth quarter getting to positive net new sales how dependent is it on the transaction volumes? Is that the key? No not at all.
No no.
Transactions are not included in net sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay sorry.
And then one other thing.
On the messaging service how critical do you think that is to your competitive position and differentiation? And can you talk about any momentum you're seeing from that? I -- look I think certainly the -- Bloomberg's messaging service is a significant part of making their service so sticky.
So it is a significant discussion that's happening within the industry right now.
And as you well know there are tons of discussions numerous discussions that are happening around messaging in the industry.
I think it's far too soon to say what the ultimate result of those discussions are going to be.
We're involved in many of those discussions.
And I guess suffice it to say we're very very supportive of an open solution.
And it's just too early to tell what the ultimate outcome of all that discussion is going to be.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you wouldn't call that out as a factor that's necessarily an important contributor to getting back to the positive net sales? No.
We'll go now to the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions.
Jim I just wanted to clarify something you said earlier in the call about going back to this pricing issue.
The implication was that the -- I don't know if you want to call them concessions or the metered or whatever -- that depending on pricing in the rollout of the desktops it could impact -- the overall impact of net sales on total revenue growth in F&amp;R in '15.
Was that the implication? Or did I misunderstand that? So I think you did understand that.
What I'm saying is that there's going to be some -- there'll be some pricing impact as we put together multiple products into new bundled solutions on one platform.
So I think what we're trying to signal is you can't just take net sales times a 2% yield on price or -- it won't be that straightforward as we work through the buy side because all revenues aren't created equal.
And it's not just a 1:1 product swap with a price increase on top right? There'll be some impact of that mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Stephane just as a follow-up on IP &amp; Science.
Transactions small percent of total revenues but they were down a fair amount in the quarter.
What caused that? We do -- transactions in IP &amp; Science consist primarily of sales of what we call back your 5s[ph] to certain customers and these can be pretty lumpy.
So -- and that's why we always carve out transactions.
They tend to be more volatile frankly.
But it's -- as you said it's a small proportion of the total revenue base of our smaller -- smallest businesses but it's certainly lumpy.
From the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Revisiting the pricing discussion.
When you implement price increases are they implemented throughout the year? Or is that more of a Q1 dynamic? And you said an enterprise-wide practice so most of the pricing discussion has been related to F&amp;R but do you expect to be able to put through price increases across Legal and Tax &amp; Accounting? Tim thank you.
That's a good question.
We do expect to implement price increases across the segments.
When we've been speaking about pricing on this call I think it's related primarily to our Financial business.
And in that business the price increase happens in the first quarter.
And that will come from the line of Matthew Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 small ones.
Could you maybe be -- you mentioned -- is it stability you need in transactions in F&amp;R to get to positive organic growth? So roughly around 0 for transactions to get to positive overall F&amp;R organic growth.
And second question is do you anticipate any -- is it too early to say or do you anticipate any charges in 2015? Matthew it's Stephane.
I think we would like to see is actually transaction returning to some level of growth.
It doesn't have to be staggering growth but we need transactions to return to some level of growth.
In terms of your question on charges we don't have anything to announce beyond what we've announced so far.
So it's very much in line with what we've said.
We've got another $60 million to take in the fourth quarter.
And in 2015 at this stage yes there may be some charges but we would expect to incur them in the run rate of the business.
And if that were to change and if we see an opportunity to accelerate getting to some of the financial targets we've laid out by taking a charge we would obviously lay it out very clearly.
But that's not the expectation at this time.
Well that will be our final question.
We'd like to thank you all for joining us for our third quarter results this morning.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Today's conference call will be available for replay beginning at 10:30 a.m.
and running through November 7 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 or for international callers (320) 365-3844 and an access code of 338529.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Thomson Reuters Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be provided at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Frank Golden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and we appreciate you joining us as we report our financial results for the full year and the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our CEO Jim Smith will start today’s discussion followed by Stephane Bello our CFO.
Following their presentations we'll open the call for questions.
We have a lot of material to share with you today and therefore we’d appreciate it if you limit yourself to one question each in order to get to as many questions as possible.
Throughout today's presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations department.
Let me now turn the call over to Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
What a difference another year makes.
Over the past 36 months we’ve made significant progress in putting the company back on solid footing.
2014 will be know as the year when Thomson Reuters turned to offence.
As you see on this slide we met or exceeded each of the 2014 guidance metrics.
In fact this marks the third consecutive year that we’ve met of exceeded each of our guidance metrics.
I know I have said for some time that I want our company to be known for its deep and lasting customer relationships for world class products and services and for the exceptional talent and commitment of our people.
Thanks to the efforts of my colleagues around the world we are well on our way to making that a reality.
2014 was a year of solid progress with good execution across the company.
We are earning back the trust and confidence of our customers as reflected in our higher customer satisfaction ratings and higher retention rates.
This resulted in a significant improvement in year-over-year net sales.
Our financial business recorded its first positive net sale since 2008 for the year and the first positive fourth quarter I can recall.
That business has shown year-over-year net sales improvement in eight of the last nine quarters.
So because of the actions we’ve taken to focus on the customer and to simplify the business the trajectory is finally in our favor and we expect that to continue in 2015.
The trajectory also continues to improve on the cost side with our financial business recording a 250 basis point improvement in its underlying EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter that’s before charges in currency.
So thanks to improving net sales and simplification.
We remain on our path towards nearing a 30% EBITDA margin for our financial business.
Additionally our professional businesses continue to do a very good job of building from a solid foundation while targeting faster growing opportunities resulting in 4% growth last year 3% of which is organic.
Now underpinning the improving net sales and revenue growth trends are our simplification and transformation programs.
Last year we achieved our run rate savings target of $300 million from the simplification program and our transformation program continues to make steady progress toward its goal of achieving savings of $400 million by 2017.
We also returned over $2 billion to shareholders last year in the form of dividends and share buy backs.
Lastly adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter was $0.43 with charges in the quarter $15 million higher than planned as we saw an opportunity to realize additional future savings.
This had a $0.02 negative impact.
Additionally currency also had a $0.02 negative impact on the quarter.
I now want to return to a slide from our third quarter 2013 presentation.
The story of 2014 is the story of delivering on the three components of the strategy I outlined back then.
So let’s look at our performance last year with that in mind.
The first objective was to operate as an enterprise rather than a set of distinct portfolio businesses.
We want to reap the benefits of scale in order to better serve our customers while focusing on organic revenue growth and driving greater simplification across the business.
I also said that the era of portfolio churn was over as we focus on simplification.
Last year we spent just $170 million on acquisitions a substantial decrease from prior years.
Second we said we would accelerate the transformation of our financial business which included improving net sales resetting the cost base and improving profitability.
The final objective I outlined was to align our capital strategy with our operating strategy in order to drive stronger returns to shareholders.
This objective is targeted at gradually improving our top line growth and improving free cash flow thereby enabling us to return more cash to our share holders without compromising either our growth strategy or our commitment to a solid investment grade rating.
Framed by that remainder of our objectives let’s review how we performed.
Although I’ll speak to you today about the performance in each of our business segments 2014 marked the beginning of a far more collaborative approach across our enterprise.
On the front end we began developing an integrated approach for some of our largest customers to expand our footprint and drive growth and on the backend we’ve consolidated platforms and real estate to drive efficiency and effectiveness.
We’ve also stepped up our innovation initiatives with dedicated funding to invest behind new ideas many of which can be leveraged across the business.
Now a few highlights by business segment.
Despite financials revenue decline of 2% for the year which you’ll remember was primarily due to 2013’s negative net sales; we saw an improvement in the fourth quarter with revenues down 1%.
Even more importantly net sales were positive for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In legal performance also improved with revenues up 2% with an organic rate of 1% tempered somewhat by a 7% decline in U.S.
print.
If you exclude U.S.
print full year revenues increase 3% with organic growth of 2%.
We’re particularly pleased with the continued strong performance from the Legal Solutions businesses.
Those of you who followed us for a long time remember when our Legal Business was primarily composed of West and Westlaw our core legal research offering in the U.S.
Today core legal research still represents slightly more than 50% of our legal business but only by a small margin.
We’ve built a solutions business around Westlaw.
This solutions business today represents a revenue base of almost $1.6 billion and it grew 6% organically in 2014.
Within the next couple of years we expect our solutions business will represent the majority of Legal’s revenue base.
Our Tax &amp; Accounting business continues to execute well and had another very strong year with revenues up 12% of which 9% was organic improving on last year’s organic growth rate of 5%.
This business continues to benefit from increased market demand for our global tax solutions and from new product launches and strong execution.
In IP &amp; Science revenues grew 3% with subscription revenues up organically a healthy 5%.
The growth was partly offset by an 8% organic decline in transactional revenues and our global growth businesses continue to perform up 9% of which 5% was organic.
Again I’ll remind you that GGO’s result are included within each of the four business segments.
Now turning specifically to the financial business we can see how our simplification program and our drive for innovation led grow is paying off.
Net sales were positive thanks to stronger gross sales and improving retention.
We saw some significant customer wins and renewals which is rewarding and encouraging.
So we are entering the new-year in the best position since the acquisition of Reuters in 2008.
With greater discipline focus and rigger we’ve been able to reduce financials headcount by 20% since 2012 as we simplify the business by closing both legacy platforms and products while increasing the number of customer facing employees at the same time.
This is not strictly a cost story it’s also a growth story with growth coming from a reenergized sales force attributable to the launch of competitive new products on a modern robust and secure unified platform.
This includes the launch of our new foreign exchange product the launch of Eikon 4.0 and the launch of Eikon for the Buyside in the fourth quarter.
And in the risk and compliance business we launched Accelus Org ID which is being very well received in the market.
Each of these products is powered by the Elektron platform that provides customers with a reliable fast and more cost efficient way of doing business.
The professional businesses continued to deliver consistent results.
Legal’s prospects continued to improve as U.S.
online research appears to have stabilized.
The solutions businesses continue to grow mid-single digits organically with plenty of runway and U.S.
print revenues are becoming an ever-smaller proportion of the business.
This is reflected in a 200 basis point improvement in legal’s organic revenue growth in 2014 versus 2013 and four consecutive quarters of improving growth if you exclude print.
Tax &amp; Accounting has built an impressive business over the past five years evidenced by a compound annual growth rate of 11% and its prospects for continued strong growth and profitability in the coming years is encouraging as global tax markets and our product offerings continue to expand.
Lastly the IP &amp; Science business broke the $1 billion revenue mark in 2014 an important milestone with strong growth from about three quarters of the business that is subscription based.
So let me wrap up 2014 by saying that I’m very pleased with the progress we’ve made in aligning our operating model and capital strategy as we move towards achieving the objectives we set out 15 months ago.
As I said at the time I believe this strategy will enable us to grow our free cash flow and create greater shareholder value while enabling us to continue to return cash to shareholders as evidenced by more than $2 billion returns last year.
Now let’s look at 2015.
Based on our 2014 results and the current pipeline I’m pleased to report that we expect to return to organic revenue growth in 2015 and we forecast positive net sales for our financial business for the full year.
That business is now in what should be the final year of large platform migrations.
If we execute as well as we’ve done in the last three years on these migrations our competitive position will be even stronger by the end of the year and our financial business should enter 2016 in the strongest financial position it’s been since the acquisition and poised to deliver positive organic growth and strong EBITDA performance.
On the professional side we expect another strong performance this year and 2015 will be a milestone year as we retire our Westlaw Classic platform and complete the migration of our remaining customers to Westlaw mix.
Now there are several large projects we plan to complete in ‘15 in order to achieve our goals.
2015 marks the final year of large product and platform migrations for our financial business.
As such it will represent a key milestone in our transformation but it’s also a critical year from an execution perspective.
Let me briefly describe three key product and platform migrations on which we need to execute flawlessly over the rest of the year.
On the back end we’ll be migrating our large real time infrastructure platform which we refer to as IDN BON.
On Elektron this platform migration will not only result in lower cost for us.
It will also drive a big improvement in service levels and it will lower cost for our customers as well.
This will be the most complex migration we’ve completed today that based on our recent experience I’m confident our team will deliver as it has in the past.
Importantly this is the platform migration that should generate substantial savings and we expect to complete it in the latter part of the year.
Therefore we would expect to see a marked improvement in margins once this migration is complete.
On the front end we will migrate our remaining Buyside and foreign exchange customers to our unified platform.
Together these products represent approximately $700 million in revenues.
In many cases we are upgrading legacy products that are very old and as a result have low retention rates.
For instance our new foreign exchange offering replaces a product which has not undergone a major upgrade in many years.
So we expect to be in a much stronger competitive position across the board by the time we complete these final migrations and the early customer feedback has been encouraging.
However these migrations will result in downward pricing adjustments in some instances which will constrain financials revenue growth this year.
In fact we would expect that for 2015 only the pricing adjustments we need to make as we complete these final product migrations will offset the positive impact of our annual price increase.
Nevertheless we are expecting a marked improvement in financials top line growth in 2015 due to last year’s stronger net sales performance.
Such an improvement in 2015 should in turn set the stage for continued improvement in top line growth in ‘16 which should be our first business as usual year without any major platform product or customer migrations.
As such we now have better visibility and confidence than ever in our ability to return our financial business to low single digit revenue growth and good operating leverage in 2016.
Now for our 2015 outlook.
First we forecast a return to positive organic revenue growth.
The level of underlying progress in our growth performance would be somewhat masked by the commercial adjustments in our financial business I just discussed.
But we believe 2015 will see a return to positive organic growth and will set the stage for more improvement in 2016.
Second the adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to range between 27.5% and 28.5%.
Third our underlying operating margin is forecast to range between 18.5% and 19.5% which would represent a 150 to 250 basis point improvement and we forecast free cash flow to range between $1.55 billion and $1.75 billion.
Importantly these projections are at constant currency rates relative to 2014.
This is in line with the way we’ve always provided guidance in the past however we do expect that currency will likely have a bigger impact than usual on our reported results based on the recent developments in the currency markets.
While we obviously cannot predict the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations over the year on our results Stephane will remind you of our currency footprint in a few minutes in order to enable you to better estimate the impact of currency on our results as the year develops.
Now given our strong capital position and our confidence in the cash generating capacity of the company this morning we announced a dividend increase of $0.02 per share to $1.34 per share.
This marks the 22 consecutive annual increase in our dividend.
In addition we expect to continue to execute on the $1 billion buyback program we announced in the second quarter of last year and we anticipate completing this program at some point in 2015.
So let me conclude by saying that we are pleased and encouraged with the continued progress we made in 2014 and I can confidently say that we are on course for a stronger growth and greater profitability moving into 2015 and looking ahead to 2016.
And although our financial business has significant platform and customer migration programs to complete this year we’ve proven we can execute well on the things within our control and I’m confident we’ll do it again this year.
We will not take our foot of the pedal as we work to drive better growth to improving net sales while also capitalizing on greater operating leverage to further improve profitability.
Moreover our transformation programs will continue to drive greater efficiency across the company as we take advantage of the scale of our enterprise.
I’m confident these programs will deliver substantial savings while also enabling us to invest for growth.
And lastly we will continue to operate within line operating and capital strategy which I’m confident will lead us to gradually improving top line growth improving free cash flow resulting in stronger returns to shareholders.
With that I want to thank you and I will now turn it over to Stephane to discuss the fourth quarter’s results.
Thank you Jim and good morning or good afternoon to you all.
As usual I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
As Jim just mentioned we do expect that currency will have a greater than unusual impact on our results in 2015 and we are starting to see the impact of this higher currency volatility in our Q4 financial results.
So as I always do I will highlight the areas where currency had a material impact on our results.
This first slide provides a snapshot of our fourth quarter and full year results which do reflect the impact of the charges which we flagged earlier this year and which impacted our performance over the past 12 months.
At the EBITDA level these charges had a $77 million impact in the fourth quarter and $135 million impact for the full year.
So we ended up incurring slightly higher charges than we had expected $135 million versus our earlier expectations of about $120 million.
Fourth quarter revenues were up 1% all organic.
Our Financial &amp; Risk segment declined 1% and was down 2% organically while our other businesses grew 4% in aggregate and 3% organically.
Full year revenues were up 1% and about flat organically.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was up 30% with an EBITDA margin of 24.7%.
Excluding charges from both periods the EBITDA margin was 27.1% in the quarter compared to 26.6% last year and for the full year the EBITDA margin was 27.4% compared to 27.3% last year.
Finally our fourth quarter operating profit margin was up 20 basis points excluding charges and excluding the impact of currency the operating margin was up 50 basis points in Q4.
For the full year the operating profit margin was 18% flat compared to last year with minimal impact from currency.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with our Legal segment.
Demand for legal services in the U.S.
market as measured by Peer Monitor was up 1% in 2014 versus down 1% in 2013 and we saw modest growth in every quarter of 2014.
For perspective the last time we saw growth in each quarter of a calendar year was 2007.
Now while the improvement in the underlying market demand is encouraging it remains modest overall and demand for litigation services which is the largest practice area was still negative.
During the fourth quarter legal grew 2% all organic.
As expected U.S.
Print revenues continue to be a drag declining 6% but excluding the impact of U.S.
Print revenues rose 4% organically during the quarter.
For the full year legal revenue grew 2% with organic revenue up 1% and that represented an improvement of 200 basis points compared to 2013 and excluding U.S.
Print revenues were up 3% for the year and up 2% organically.
Transaction revenues for the quarter which represented 12% of the total were up 10% driven by strong performances in our software business and in our legal outsourcing business.
Subscription revenues which represented about 75% of the total were up 3% all organic.
The continued strong organic performance of our subscription revenue base during the quarter is a good indicator of the underlying strength of the business.
For the full year subscription revenues were up 4% and they were up 3% organically.
Now turning to our profitability metrics for the quarter the EBITDA margin was up 300 basis points while the operating profit increased 320 basis points.
Excluding charges from last year the EBITDA margin was down 130 basis points while the operating profit was down 110 basis points primarily due to an adverse revenue mix.
On a full year basis excluding charges from last year the EBITDA margin was down 30 basis points and the operating profit was up 10 basis points.
Given the challenging revenue mix resulting from the decline of high margin U.S.
Print revenue keeping our margins broadly flat was a good performance by the Legal business and very much in line with our expectations.
Now as you can see on this slide the underlying trends in the Legal business are encouraging.
As a reminder U.S.
Print revenues represent about 15% of the total.
So the graph on this slide shows the growth trend for the remaining 85%.
As mentioned on the prior slide Legal's total revenue growth was 2% for the quarter.
However when you strip out U.S.
print revenues you can clearly see the improving trend in the business on this slide.
The remaining 85% of Legal’s revenue base has improved sequentially over each of the past four quarters.
Now the fourth quarter had a relatively easy come because as you may recall we experienced a decline in our revenue from our Latin American legal business in the fourth quarter of 2013 but nevertheless the underlying improvement is clear.
Here is a more detailed look at the revenue performance of the three main sub-segments in our Legal business and this graph provides a good depiction of the changing revenue mix dynamics as our solution businesses is become an increasingly larger proportion of the total revenue base.
As a reminder these solutions businesses consist of everything except U.S.
online legal information and U.S.
print.
In aggregate they made up 46% of legal's total revenue in the fourth quarter and they grew 8% 7% organically.
As I mentioned earlier some of the strong organic growth performance in Q4 was driven by higher transaction revenues at Elite and Pangea3 but overall the growth performance of our solution business is strong as evidenced by the 6% organic growth rate they achieved for the full year.
U.S.
Print revenues were down 6% and they were down 7% for the year and finally US Online Legal Information which is 38% of total revenues was flat for the quarter which is encouraging.
In fact we did see sequential improvement in U.S.
online revenues every quarter in 2014 reflecting the improvement into legal market I described earlier.
Now turning to our Tax &amp; Accounting business that business had another very strong year and quarter.
Revenues for Q4 grew 10% of which 7% was organic and for the full year revenues grew 12% of which 9% was organic.
Recurring revenue which is about 85% of the total grew 8% organically in the quarter.
From a profit standpoint EBITDA was up 4% in the quarter with the margin declining 130 basis points as we continued to make organic investments in what is our highest growth business.
For the full year the EBITDA margin was flat.
For the fourth quarter operating profit was up 6% with the related margin down 50 basis points and the operating margin for the full year was up 80 basis points primarily as a result of higher revenues and flat depreciation and amortization expense.
As you can see on this next slide we achieved strong growth across the business for the quarter.
The corporate and professional segments were particularly strong with organic revenue growth of 12% and 10% respectively.
Finally the decline in the government segment had a very small impact on Tax &amp; Accountings forward performance given the small size of that segment.
IP &amp; Science revenues were down 1% for the quarter all organic.
This performance was primarily the result of a lower number of transactional deals compared to the prior year period.
I’ll get back to that in a moment.
For the year revenues grew 3% with organic growth of 2%.
Turning to profitability metrics for the fourth quarter the EBITDA margin and the operating profit margin were both up substantially primarily reflecting the charges we incurred in the fourth quarter of last year.
Excluding charges from the fourth quarter of last year EBITDA margin was actually down 30 basis points while the operating profit was down 120 basis points.
This was primarily the result of an unfavorable revenue mix compared to the prior year period.
On the full year basis excluding the charges incurred last year the EBITDA margin was down 150 basis points and the operating profit was down 230 basis points primarily due to organic investments in the business and also due to the diluted effect of acquisitions we completed in 2013.
Although revenue declined overall for IP &amp; Science in the fourth quarter subscription revenues which make up about three quarters of the total were up 6% and were up in each segment.
Transaction revenues declined 17% as large one time deals signed in Q4 of 2013 were not repeated in the fourth quarter of 2014.
And as always we remind you small movements in the timing of these revenues and also of expenses can impact margins in any given quarter for the IP &amp; Science business and that’s why full year results are much more reflective of the segments underlying performance.
Now turning to the fourth quarter results for our Financial &amp; Risk business.
Revenues were down 1% with a 1% contribution from acquisitions so organic revenue was down 2%.
This organic revenue decline primarily reflected the impact of lower price realization resulting from the migration of some of our foreign exchange and Buyside product offering to the unified platform.
For the full year revenues declined 2% and were down 3% organically.
Now as Jim just explained we recently began migrating our remaining legacy Buyside and foreign exchange products to our unified platform which may lead to lower price realization for some products.
As such we do expect that the pricing adjustments we are making in connection with these product migrations will dampen the positive impact of improving net sales on F&amp;Rs over valuables revenue growth in 2015.
In the fourth quarter we started to see some impact.
We still anticipate that the improving trends in net sales combined with our regular annual price increases and greater price discipline on the rest of the F&amp;R revenue base will help mitigate this impact.
So overall we do expect to see a year-on-year improvement in F&amp;Rs top line growth performance in 2013 as Jim just mentioned.
Now the EBITDA margin for the quarter was up significantly on reported basis.
Excluding charges from both periods the EBITDA margin was up 190 basis points and the operating profit margin was up 100 basis points versus the fourth quarter of last year.
And again these numbers exclude the impact of the charges which amounted to $70 million in Q4 this year compared to $178 million in the prior year period.
For the full year the EBITDA margin was up 70 basis points and the operating margin was up 50 basis points again both excluding charges which amounted to $130 million this year compared to $251 million in 2013.
Over the last couple of years our financial business has increased its underlying EBITDA margin by 140 basis points from 24.9% in 2012 to 26.3% in 2014 despite revenue declines averaging 3% of the year organically.
As we gradually return this business to positive growth the productivity improve we’ve made will become more apparent in our margin performance.
Now as I mentioned in starting currency has a larger than usual impact on the fourth quarter results and these was especially visible within our Financial &amp; Risk business which is where we carry the lion’s share of our currency exposures.
As you can see on this slide excluding both charges and currency from both periods F&amp;R’s adjusted EBITDA margin increased 250 basis points in the fourth quarter to 27.3% and this represents significant progress towards achieving our objective of an EBITDA margin nearing 30%.
The significant improvement in margins against the backdrop of the 2% organic revenue decline demonstrates how the simplification efforts of the financial business are baring fruits.
Now looking at the Financial &amp; Risk revenue in a bit more detail.
Recurring revenues which were 75% of the total declined 2% during the quarter 3% organically and this decline again was primarily the result of the commercial realignments we are implementing in connection with certain product migrations as I just described earlier.
And as Jim noted the trend in our net sales performance has reversed and we’ve now recorded positive net sales during the last three quarters.
Recoveries which are about 11% of the total revenues were up 5% for the quarter and as you know these are low margin revenues.
Transaction revenues which is 14% of the total were flat but they were down 3% on an organic basis.
However we did see some improvement in transaction revenues in our foreign exchange business.
While one quarter dose obviously not constituted a trend the reason increase in market volatility should have a positive impact on transaction volumes and hence on transaction revenues going forward.
For the full year transaction revenues were down 5% organically for F&amp;R due to lower volatility in currency and fixed income markets throughout most of the year.
And since transactions represent a highly profitable revenue stream for the business the declines in transaction revenues last year was obviously not helpful with regard to our margin goals.
So we are hopeful that the trend will reverse in 2015.
As Jim mentioned earlier 2015 should represent the last year of significant migration activity for Financial &amp; Risk.
As you can see on this chart only 10% of F&amp;R’s revenue will remain on legacy desktop platforms by the end of 2016.
This is a significant progress from the 45% of F&amp;R revenue that legacy desktop represented in 2011.
And the remaining 10% represent products such as wealth management banker and Tradeweb which have comparable or higher retention rate to Eikon and are not expected to migrate to Eikon in the next two to three years.
Finally as shown on the pie chart on the far right of this slide these legacy F&amp;R desktop revenues will only represent 5% of the corporation store revenue base by the end of this year.
Now let me update you on our capital position free cash flow and earnings.
2014 was another active year from a capital structure standpoint.
We issued $1.5 billion of new debt in 2014 and through these various transactions we maintain the average maturity across our debt portfolio at nine years while at the same time reducing our average interest rate to below 5%.
We ended the year with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.2 times which is within our 2.5 times target.
Maintaining a strong and stable capital structure obviously remains a key tenant of our overall capital strategy.
And we completed the first $1 billion share buyback program we had announced in late 2013 while also announcing an additional $1 billion repurchase program which we intent to complete in 2015.
Now turning to our free cash flow performance for the full year and working from the bottom to the top of this slide.
Free cash flow for 2014 was a $1.4 billion this included $306 million related to charges as well as a decrease of $67 million of cash related to disposals.
As such ongoing free cash flow excluding the impact of disposals was up 32% for the full year.
And ongoing free cash flow excluding the impact of the charges was about $1.7 billion.
This was down very marginally from last year.
I think 2013 we achieved a one-day improvement in our overall DSO which we are able to maintain but not improve upon this year.
We continue to deliver on our commitment to return capital to share holders.
Over the past three years we have returned just under $5 billion of capital in the form of dividends and share buybacks.
Our acquisition activity was pretty modest in 2014.
We completed just a handful of deals for a total capital commitment of about $170 million.
We will continue to pursuit technical acquisitions but on a very selective basis.
We expect our acquisition activity will be concentrated in our highest growth areas and our preference will be to seek medium size deals which have a greater impact in the business and/or assets that can be integrated quickly and easily.
Simply put we do not want to distract the organization with complex integration processes at a time when we seek to improve the benefits of our scale through our transformation efforts.
Now turning to our earnings per share performance.
Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.43 per share $0.22 higher than the year ago that $0.22 increase was attributable to lower charges partially offset by higher tax rates.
As mentioned earlier we incurred $50 million of additional charges compared to our original projections $135 million versus our early estimate of $120 million.
These higher charge had a negative $0.02 factor in our Q4 results and foreign currency also had $0.02 negative impact on EPS in the quarter.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $1.85 per share $0.31 higher in the year ago with increase attributable to lower charges and interest expenses partially offset by higher taxes and for the full year foreign currency also had a $0.02 negative impact on EPS.
Now in light of the increased volatility we have recently seeing in the foreign exchange market currency is likely to have a higher than usual impact on the results in 2016 and as such we wanted to take this opportunity to remind you of our currency profile.
As you can see on this slide the vast majority of our revenue and expense base is denominated in U.S.
dollars.
So we have a fairly well balance foot print overall.
The main exception is our euro exposure where revenues exceed expenses by about $800 million annually.
So the recent appreciation of the U.S.
dollar against the Euro and a few other currencies such as the Japanese Yen or the Canadian dollar will have a negative impact on our reported results both at the revenue and the profitability level.
As a rule of thumb a 1% movement in the Euro against the U.S.
dollar exchange rate would translate into a $0.01 impact on EPS.
We do hedge this exposure to forward derivative instruments but given their inherent volatility the impact of these directive contracts is removed from our adjusted EPS.
Is obviously imposable to predict what the ultimate impact of currency volatility will be which is why we always provide our guidance before currency but we wanted to highlight the effect that currency will likely to have a greater impact than usual on our result in 2015 and we obviously will provide you with full transparency on these impact as the year progresses as we always do.
Now Jim has presented key metrics for our 2015 outlook so I will speak to those he did not address.
Capital expenditure I expect it to remain at approximately 8% of revenue similar to 2014.
For perspective our CapEx spending has remind roughly flat since 2011.
Interest expense is expected to range between $435 million and $465 million and this reflects how we have maintained interest rates broadly flat thanks to the financing activities.
And finally we forecasted our effective tax rate will range between 14.5% and 16.5% in 2015 up slightly from 13.9% in 2014.
I would like to remind you that we historically paid more in cash taxes than our effective tax rate may imply.
For instance our cash taxes in 2014 were about $260 million as compared to the $146 million tax expenses we booked last year based on our effective tax rate of 13.9%.
With that let me now turn it back over to Jim for a quick conclusion.
Thank you Stephane.
So in conclusion let me say that we are looking to 2015 as a milestone year both financially and operationally as we set the stage for a return to organic growth for the first time in three years and for stronger improvement in 2016.
And we are feeling more optimistic for the first time in many years.
Our key focus over the last three years has been on fixing things.
We have one more year of that in F&amp;R and we are now turning our attention to accelerating our growth trajectory which is very energizing for me and for the whole organization.
<br>We have proven over the past three years that we can manage the things effectively and we have done that by shutting legacy platforms migrating customers to our unified platform and by launching products on time and on budget.
I believe 2015 will mark the first year of organic growth since I took over as CEO and we are making this prediction in spite of the negative impact of commercial adjustments we need to make this year.
So to finish up the underlying trend is strong and 2015 should set the stage for stronger 2016 which should be a more business as usual year for the first time in a long time.
Now let me turn it back over to Frank.
Frank.
Thanks very much Jim and now we’d like to open the call for questions.
So operator if we could please take the first question.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from the line of Drew McReynolds at RBC.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much and good morning; just two from me.
Just first with respect to the Q4 net sales.
Obviously I think us and most of the Street were expecting that to be negative in the quarter; just Jim wondering if you could just point to the dynamics of that net sales period.
I think you were a little bit cautious going in but sound a little bit more optimistic coming out.
And then second question just on approaching that 30% EBITDA margin target within F&amp;R this year.
You’ve highlighted a couple of puts and takes from positive net sales price increases to transaction uncertainty and obviously commercial adjustments etcetera but at the same time you are going to rip a lot of cost out.
So I’m just wondering kind of what are the one or two key deltas here that will ultimately determine whether you can meet that target that you set? Thanks Drew Jim here.
I’ll take the first one and let Stephane respond to the second one.
We were gratified by the net sales performance in Q4 and if you think back over the last couple of years what I’ve been hesitant to call any particular quarter or any particular year on which side of the water line we’ll wind up we’ve been confident that we had an improving trajectory and we were very confident that we would have an improving trajectory in Q4 and in fact we did.
It's just that it was good enough in fact to break us into positive territory and you will recall it’s the biggest of our quarters and it's always been the big downtick.
So what we saw in Q4 and experienced in Q4 was substantially improved retention rates and growth sales that we are able to overcome the downticks that we did get in Q4.
So I’d just say it was gratifying for a little bit of color.
We saw improvement in both the Americas and in Asia.
Europe was still down for the quarter but substantially improved over the prior year.
And you’ll recall we’ve seen that improving trend in Europe throughout the year and in fact Europe was in positive territory for the first time in a long time in Q3.
So the overall trajectory continues to remain encouraging for us and we were pleased to see it break above the water line in Q4.
Yes Drew and let me address your second question thanks for the question on F&amp;R's EBITDA margin.
I’ll point out to a couple of things I said during the prepared remarks right.
If you look at the improvement in margins at F&amp;R.
The F&amp;R team has realized over the last couple of years.
It amounted to like 140 basis point if you like take away all the charges that kind of polluted the results a little bit and so that 140 basis points improvement has been achieved in the face of revenue declines where were 3% organically each year in ‘13 and ’14.
So that’s a pretty good performance from that team and in Q4 alone you’ve seen the improvement was even more marked if you adjust for the charges and if also adjust for currency which is obviously the basis on which we think about that that EBITDA margin goal.
Most of that has been achieved through the simplification efforts that we’ve made.
This platform consideration efforts and as I have indicated on the call 2015 will be a big year from a platform consideration perspective.
We are moving – on the front end we are migrating our two largest remaining product categories; foreign exchange and Buyside.
That’s not going to have a huge impact on margin per say but it should dramatically improve the retention rate we get on that revenue base once we’ve done.
The big impact for margin perspective is obviously what Jim referred to with the IDN BON platform that big real time data infrastructure.
If you remember the margin progression that Tim Collier the CFO of our Financial &amp; Risk business provided to you at Investor Day last year.
He mentioned that two-percentage point improvement should come from migrating platform while the IDN BON platform is the big deal when we talk about platform consideration.
That’s really where you are going to see a lot of savings.
And the way it will happen eventually is that you see the savings once we can get virtually the last customer off that platform.
So we are in the midst of that migration right now.
We are working with our customers.
Initially what’s going to happen is that you are going to see some dual costs some additional costs we can apply.
We have to run the two platforms the new one and the old one as customers like really want to make sure that everything works fine as we change the infrastructure and at the moment we completed that migration which as Jim said we expect to complete in the latter half of this year that’s when you are going to start seeing a big improvement in margins.
So what I would focus I would say is really what’s the exit rate at which we leave 2014 from a margin perspective and if we execute well on this platform migration which we expect to do.
We should see the exit rate margin for F&amp;R very much at this objective that we mentioned and that obviously should increase the confidence that starting 2016 once you start seeing the revenue trajectory continue to improve as Jim said and we’ve achieved that objective that we mentioned as I said by the end of this year.
That’s really when you start benefiting from a different operating leverage from the revenue growth of the business.
So overall that’s a little bit the way I would think about the margin progression for F&amp;R.
A lot of progress has been made.
As you said there’s going to be puts and takes.
The transaction certainly pushed us back a little bit last year.
Just to give you a sense of the magnitude of that transaction revenues declined by 5% organically.
Had they simply been flat last year the margin probably would have been 50 to 75 basis points higher than what we realized.
So we took this kind of headwind in strides.
We hope that some of that reversed this year.
But all the things that are under our control in terms of making these margins improvement are very much on track.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Could you talk about how pricing changes for Buyside subscribers as they are converting over to Eikon and the retention that you are seeing? And also at the March Investor Day you gave out 2017 adjusted EPS goal.
Obviously FX is a big wildcard around that.
But I’m wondering if anything what’s happened in the last year or you see going forward changes that view.
Thanks? Again Sara Jim here thanks for the question and I’ll take the first one and let Stephane answer the second one.
Just to clarify the difference of what we are doing here if you’ll remember when we started of with the Sell-Side with Eikon we were going in and replacing one for one.
We placed a Reuters Xtra 3000 terminal with an Eikon terminal and we did that at the exact same price better product massively improved the deliver of product for the exact same price and it was a one for one terminal switch out.
When we move to the Buyside and when we think about FX we don’t have one all-inclusive terminal options.
So what we have is subscription to multiple products that we are blending together right into one offer per customer.
And what will happen is that at many instances if you are for example taking five products for us at $100 a piece.
Your new offer may not add up to $500.
In some instances it will but in many instances it won't.
Likewise if you look on the FX side we have constructed a combined offer for dealing matching Eikon and FXall and offering a unified solution and we are pricing to be competitive in the market and to offer much greater value to our customers and our expectation is that once we rollout the new platform the new products and services that we will see the same kind of impact on retention rates as we saw on the Sell-Side.
Absolutely.
And if I may add one point on the pricing this commercial adjustments that Jim just explained are very much related to the migration of these products this $700 million of revenue basis.
So they kind of like we know exactly where they are going to appear.
We took some of that impact in Q4.
We said there may be a little bit of spillover in ’16 but the bulk of the impact will be in 2015 which is the period during which we do these migrations obviously.
Now on the your question about adjusted EPS and the target that we gave at Investor Day in 2017 Sara as you remember that target was really primarily dependent on our ability to achieve the transformation savings that we wanted to achieve and our efforts are very much on track with regards to achieving these transformation savings.
The second component was obviously that the beneficial impact we were expecting to see from the stock buyback program and you know where we are on that that’s on track too and the last portion of the impact was really a return to revenue growth.
And I think you from the discussion we have today you can see how we believe we got better visibility on the revenue trajectory and the factors that will impact that trajectory in ’15 which we just explained and also in 2016.
So I’d say overall all the trends we described are very much still on track.
They will be factors that obviously are not in our control and foreign exchange is a perfect wildcard.
At this point in time I would not we will revise the targets we made with regard to our EPS target because foreign exchange by definition can fluctuate a lot and by the time we get to 2017 it maybe a complete non-issue as currency movements may have reversed by then.
If that’s not the case obviously we will provide an update in due course.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Please go-ahead.
Good morning.
Jim maybe can you just talk a little bit about the trends and the data feed and the risk business as we sort of exist phase ’14 and into ’15.
It’s been a while since we talked about it and it’s a material portion of the business.
And then the second one Stephane can you just clarify I think I heard you flat on CapEx and then just pension contribution in cash shortages what that would be in ’15 presumably stepped down? Thanks.
Sure Paul I’m happy to do that.
But I’m glad you called those out.
Those are both business that are very strong business for us and growing business for us.
I’ll start with on the risk side.
That business continues to be one of our fastest growing segments.
Its one of which we are investing behind continuing to invest behind and which has enormous take-up around the globe.
So it’s a very solid contributor to our growth profile going forward and becoming a bigger and bigger part of the business particularly around the compliance risk side.
In fact one of our big new product offerings that we launched in the fourth quarter and are looking forward to this year is the launch of the Accelus Org ID which is really creating we hope an industry standard for customer on-boarding screening matching.
That’s something we are quite existed in a continued strong growth business.
On the feeds business while all the focus has been on the Eikon desktop terminals we made enormous progress on the electron side as well and if you look at the improvements that are made on the underlying electron platform and on the continued growth of our feeds business it’s a huge part of the future going forward and I would dare say its an area that you are going to hear a lot more about in coming months and years.
Particularly I think as our customers rely on us more for those kind of big enterprise services than just discreet terminal versus terminal.
So both those business are incredibly important to us and receives a lot of attention again under the covers but are also growing nicely for us.
And Paul let me take your second question CapEx.
We are projecting CapEx to be flat.
As I said that would be the fourth or fifth year in a row now that we maintained flat capital spending overall.
There is a lot of movement under the sheets however and in that we have dramatically reduced the amount of CapEx spending go to infrastructure type product and we redeployed this CapEx towards product development essentially towards the offense.
So that’s really our ambition is to keep that CapEx flat but continue to like shift the mix of our CapEx towards growth areas.
And in terms of your question on pension interest and tax and effect of free cash flow you remember we made a very large pension contribution back in 2013.
There was not such a comparable big contribution in ’14 we don’t anticipate one in ’15 either.
There are ongoing pension contributions I would quantify the impact of increase in all these kind of non-operating items not fully operating items meaning increase in cash taxes interest and pensions to be in the range maybe of like probably like $32 million to $50 million in ’15 not more than that.
So it’s pretty steady.
Perfect.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Andrew Steinman with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Steinman your line is open.
Going to the next line the next question is from the line of Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
So I just want to get back to that exit rate of 30%.
If I recall at Investor Day you had said that almost 450 of that 500 basis point improvement on a constant currency basis at least was more driven by your cost efforts; and then it would only be that remaining 50 basis points that would be dependent on the top-line growth.
So just tying that in with your commentary around the dependency I guess on transaction revenue is it fair to say on a constant-currency basis at least that 29% 29.5% is in the bag or is there some more volatility behind that? Look I can only point you to what I said earlier which is on the cost side we are very much executing according to what we planned and very much realizing the savings we were expecting to realize.
What happened on the revenue is that we were expecting a combination of lower recovery revenues and probably flat to slightly increasing transaction revenues.
Now from a mixed perspective transactions revenues are highly profitably and instead of being flat to up slightly they were down 5% as I said and recovery revenues as you know are low margin revenues and instead of being down they ended up being – so we had a little bit of a negative mix impact from a revenue perspective which probably in aggregate amounted to a little bit more than 60 basis points.
But as I said I think that these are kind of timing with revenues that hopefully will over time the trajectory of these two revenues components will be in line with what we saw and so we very much are expecting to get the margin improvement.
I mean I think that the trajectory is not very different from what we expected.
I’ll be honest with you; it’s the revenue trajectory has been exactly what we would had expected we probably would hit a 30% margin earlier but as I said we can only manage what’s in our control.
Okay.
And then I guess just to talk about just the FX a little bit more.
So I understand in your guidance there’s constant currency and we appreciate that.
In terms of the margin firstly like including FX where it was where it is today let's say.
What sort of impact on the margin should we expect in F&amp;R? And then just generally I know you said you gave us the mix of currencies for the total company and you said the lion's share was in F&amp;R.
I was wondering if you could help us parse that out with maybe some specific percentages just to help our modeling.
Yes what we will do is the following.
We will post on our IR website an estimate of what we expect the impact to be both on the revenue and on the EBITDA or OI for the largest currency pairs that we have the largest currency exposures we had.
So hopefully that should enable you getting kind of at least a good approximation in your model of what currency impact will be.
It probably would be too lengthy for me to like describe on this call what the impact will be by business by currency but we’ll try to provide you with additional granularity on our website.
And in fact Manav we’ve done that this morning.
So there is a supplemental schedule on our website that essentially shows you the potential impact on local revenue and in our profit basis for the four major currencies that Stephane had referenced in that slide that he you used during his presentation.
Okay I’ll check that out.
Thank you.
Next question is from the line of Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much.
A couple of questions on currency.
I'm actually looking at that supplemental [inaudible] up there.
The exposure to the euro I guess is a little bit worse than I would've thought.
So a 1% change impacts operating profit by $8 million so it seems like that could be pretty big this year.
So Stephane can you flush out a little bit more what you said about hedging? Because I'm not quite sure I get that.
You have lots of hedges in place but you don't include them in your adjusted EPS.
But do they actually get included in free cash flow so in terms of the economic impact you have somewhat of a buffer? Yes Vince that’s exactly the way you described it and I mentioned on the call right you are exactly right.
The Euro is by far the most impartial currency exposure we have.
It’s about $8 million so given that we got 800 million shares roughly that’s why I said that 1% change in that exchange rate the U.S.
dollar Euro exchange rate translates into about $0.01 impact on EPS which is a meaningful impact as you just mentioned.
We do hedge our currency exposure we got a program in place where we hedge anywhere between 50% and 100% of our annual exposure on an ongoing basis.
Now that obviously creates a fair level of volatility so we exclude the impact of these hedging program form EPS but the impact is included in free cash flow.
So from an economic perspective you should see the benefit of that in free cash flow.
Okay.
One side question on FX exposures.
I think you have a fair amount of employees and intellectual property rights in Switzerland.
Is there any specific exposure you have there given the rapid change in its currency and does that perhaps have any impact on your higher tax rate for 2015? Not really.
We do have a large employee base in Switzerland as you point out.
We also have our revenues in Swiss Franc so their exposure is are little bit more balance overall.
You know what I think as an impact on the tax rate it’s obviously a very complicated calculation.
Last year we ended up actually really smack within the guidance that we provided at 13.9% and our guidance was if I recall was 13% to 15%.
This year we seen increase that’s mainly driven by the geography of where we’re going to realize earnings and so to the extend that we earn more in jurisdictions where our marginal tax rate is a little higher like the U.S.
that will drive a slight increase in the tax rate that’s really what’s going on for 2016.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Jim one of the narratives that used to be out there as a concern was that on the F&amp;R side you were getting squeezed from the top and the bottom.
So Bloomberg has a premium offer and then there was new competitors coming up underneath.
Given the turn in net sales do you believe your capturing share or that the overall seat count or screen count if I could use that is improving in your favor.
What you think is driving the turn in net sales that you’ve talked about today? I think that there are three things I’ll point to or four.
First we got a bit of product we got a lot of better product out there and we’ve increased the number of people we’ve put in our kind of customer facing support roles both on sales and in support.
So better product better service and a sales force is energized by adding both of those things.
It helps you on the gross sales side and if we look at – we monitor all the head to head situations we find ourselves in.
In the old days with Reuters Xtra 3000 we lost all the head to head and we lost the head to head with the big players and we lost head to heads from start-ups and now we pulled our fair share.
Frankly I think we win more than our fair share in many areas and we are pretty proud of that.
But on the other side the great thing that our better products have done for us is that our retention rates are up right.
So not only are gross sales improving but the cancels are going down and that notion of marked improvement in the retention rates gives a so much more solid base to compete against us.
So I think it’s a combination of factors but it’s really based on the back of better product and better services and we are winning our fair share of the bake offs where we were.
Is your sense though that the addressable market is stable or do you think its improving with the…? I think the addressable market has stabilized.
I think the desktop market is unlikely to be a growth market in the future.
It’s a place where we can continue to improve and I think continue to increase our position and I think we have lots of room on the buy side as well particularly as we began to penetrate there with a fit for purpose product particularly in North America right.
So I think there are opportunities for us there.
So I don’t get a sense that the market has returned the desktop market has returned to a some kind of period of growth where we’re going to see increasing seat counts there but I do get a sense that it has stabilized in terms of reductions and certainly our competitive position is much improved.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My first question was on the legal side.
I was wondering if based on what your seeing do you think that legal ex-print are getting growth to sustain the recent levels of 3% to 4% as we look to 2015 or should we assume that that tapers a bit particularly as the comps get a bit tougher? Okay I think what your going to see on the legal business is going to be the following.
The best we could think about the legal business is looking at this by chart like we have shown and the three components.
Print is going to continue to decline at the HD space the organic 7% and its becoming a smaller and smaller percent to the total or legal solution business.
We actually feel pretty good about that business.
It generated 6% organic growth rate.
We think that’s pretty sustainable.
It’s a very solid business and as James said we did a couple of euros.
It should become the majority of our legal revenue base.
And the last component which is our U.S.
online business that one has seen an improvement a steady improvement.
It was negative a 2% in ’13 negative 1% in ’14 and actually flat in the fourth quarter of ’14.
So you could see a very gradual improvement there.
Its not going to be a hockey stick improvement but we are confident that that basis has been stabilized.
So the combination of these three trends and particularly the fact that Ohio’s growth business is becoming a greater and greater percentage of the total.
It should in our opinion lead to an over revenue growth rate.
That should continue to steadily gradually improve.
But as I say its not going to be a hockey stick improvement.
And if I could just – Andre if I could just add to that you hesitate to like commit to a number and this particular number says that.
I think the trends that underlie what’s happening in our legal business are sustainable and I think you’ve heard me and for the last few quarters that we’ve been encouraged by the underlying trends that we’ve seen and those continue and now they are flowing into the numbers particularly evidenced on the slide that’s on for us to kind of see that sequential performance.
Well that’s what we’ve seen and if we peal under the covers of that the reason I’m so encouraged is because a big part of that is because quality counts.
We’ve seen improving retention rates even in the small the very price sensitive small loss base for us.
So I think that we’ve got a very good quality product and once again we see that pays off with customers.
And if you think about the new solutions business that Susan and the team in legal are focusing on now there is great confidence in the trend.
Given I guess my follow would be as to the wind and the improvement in that sales that your seeing in F&amp;R could you maybe talk about the role that bundling is happening in your conversations with customers.
When you are getting the wins are you seeing the trends be that your typically displacing other bundled products or are you typically displacing more and more specialty in niche products that people do like the fact that you can offer them a bundle that’s maybe at a lower commodity price.
Yes its probably – its early days of that process so its probably pre mature to comment on how that’s going to play out and frankly for competitive reasons I’d rather not go too deeply into that one and I hope you could appreciate that.
Lets just say we think we have constructed attractive value propositions to compete kind of across the range of competitors and the early results are encouraging.
More details to come and we have more experience under our belt.
Thank you.
Next question is from Aravinda Galappatthige from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
A couple for Stephane around the guidance.
With respect to the currency assumption that you indicated you’re talking about constant current assumption.
I just wanted to clarify the guidance is that based on sort of the year end ’14 or the beginning of ’15 currencies put together for the year or GVP or you’re taking the average for 2014? Its the average rate of 2014.
Okay.
And just around that I wanted to know you hadn’t indicted if there were any charges restructuring charges included in the 2015 adjusted EBITDA margin guidance.
Is that something which your disclosing at this point or…? We always provide the guidance all-inclusive.
So if we need to take we don’t expect to take large charges in 2015.
We think that the programs we’ve taken in 2013 and ’14 would present the majority of the charges that we have to take.
As we mentioned in Investor Day our transformation of the program is predicted much more outside the improvement everyday on natural attrition as opposed to big disruptive charges.
It does not mean that we will not have some charges but we’ll have some of them in the number and that’s what organic is based on.
Okay great.
Thank you Stephane.
Our next question is from the line of Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
My first question is on the ’15 revenue guidance.
I was wondering can you provide any more specificity around what exactly the organic growth rate would be and also just thinking about the organic growth rate and I know you had a lot of questions on FX so far.
I think that would imply probably maybe of a reported revenue decline in ’15 just given where FX headwinds maybe.
And then as a follow-up I was wondering given the revenue dynamics you’re seeing within legal how should we think about the margin for the year? Thanks.
Alright let me try to answer these questions.
First of all on foreign exchange I think that your assumption on what the reported revenue growth rate will be is probably correct.
You could see a decline given that we’ve got 40% of a revenue base which is non-U.S.
dollar base and the U.S.
dollar has strengthened against virtually every currency in the world lately so unless there is a turnaround in the U.S.
dollar rate reported revenue growth obviously could be impacted by that.
As you know we very much focus on the growth excluding currency because we do think that this is a much better way to look at the trajectory of our business.
In terms of the over organic growth guidance that we’ve provided – look we are stating that we expect it to be budgeted from an organic perspective that this would be the first year of organic growth that we would achieve since Jim and I got into our roles and if you look at essentially our history since the Reuters acquisition I think we only had one other year of positive organic growth rate.
So this is obviously pretty meaningful from a signal perspective and we’ve tried to describe on this call what we expect the trajectory of the revenue growth to be not just in ’15 and ’16.
So getting to that positive organic growth rate obviously is a pretty important milestone and the improvement will come primarily obviously from our financial business.
The rest of the business the professional businesses had like a pretty good performance for a number of years.
We do expect them to continue to deliver that strong performance.
We really expect now to start seeing the turnaround in the top line performance of our financial business and that’s really what’s impacting the improvement in the guidance we’ve given from a top line perspective.
And I forgot your last question was on… The second question was on the margin with your legal business yes.
I would expect more of the same which means the legal management team has done a very nice job in keeping or trying to maintain more or less their margin in the phase of what has been a very very negative mix impact and we would expect that they will continue to do that in 2015 so I would not expect an improvement in margin.
As I said our objective in that business is more to keep the margin on its table and continue to improve it sometime the performance.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Just a simple question just to clarify Jim on the revenue outgrowth that work for F&amp;R in 2015 a lot of moving parts.
Bottom line ex-currency you expect F&amp;R to be positive in 2015 is that the right read? I want to treat the answer to that the same way I treated net sales last year and the year before.
We expect to see a marked improvement in the revenue performance in F&amp;R.
But due to the number of moving parts that you’ve noted it will be tough to call where you break above the line or below the line because it will depend up on – I’m very confident in the trajectory of the subscription sales that we have made today and we’ll make throughout the year particularly on the sales side and how pricing given your ability to realize net pricing increases particularly on those sales side contracts that are in place today.
But the moving parts that involve you know the transaction volumes as Stephane pointed out are a significant moving part.
We’ve got another moving part in terms of recovery revenues where a number of vendors for whom we simply pass through their data and win their data along they are starting to bill for that directly in many cases.
So that is another moving part and then the notion of how the Buyside migration actually progresses and what our yield is.
Its just a number of moving parts there to say to try to call it a number.
So I would prefer it at this point just to express the confidence as we did in net sales in the past.
We’re going to see it improving trajectory if its on the top side of the line or below the line that will develop throughout the year and we’ll have more visibility into it as the year unfolds.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jim.
So in response to some of the earlier question it seems like you might have been implying a bit of strategy changes in terms of the pricing model.
Are you guys moving to more of a all-you-can-eat model for the F&amp;R division versus the al-a-cart pricing you’ve done historically.
I don’t think so.
I mean not across the board.
We’ve done a lot of work Peter about looking at what our customers buy from us where they place value in which products.
Their propensity to cross buy multiple products where we could add more value by either putting together a bundle at an attractive price or where putting together a bundle would actually destroy value for us because the customer really values both of those products at separate prices.
So its not so much a change across the board in our strategy.
Its just the desire to put together compelling packages that our customers value and get the right price on all the various services so that we’re competitive in the marketplace and I think we’ve been talking I think in a broad range about that for the past 18 months or so.
Its just now we‘re at the point of executing on it and I think we’ll be able to provide far more valuable products and commercial arrangements with our customers but no its not going to be so much the all you can eat package.
Understood.
And Jim could you say anything on symphony as a competitor in terms of how seriously your taking them.
Well I think Symphony is a very interesting development in the market.
We’ve always been on the side of open.
I think we’ve been in the middle of all of the discussions that are certainly involved in.
Its not in the middle of all of the discussions about messaging in the financial services community and to the extent that Symphony provides an alternative messaging system and multiple players are going to interact with one another.
We’re kind of all ears and I think in this day and age you have to be very attentive to changes in the market and I think you have to note that there will be competitors and there will be partnerships that you will form that will look different than relationships in the past.
I view the Symphony development as a positive one and one which we will continue to engage in a dialogue about.
But I think anything that helps the industry and helps change some of the closed dynamic of messaging in the industry has the potential to be a very positive thing for the industry and for us.
Okay thanks Jim.
The next question is from the line of Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
In terms of timing regarding Eikon for the Buyside initially I expected your target legacy customers to migrate.
So when do you expect to start going after totally new customers and similarly for Elektron which quarter is the migration suppose to be completed in and so shall we expect that margin improvement is more weighted towards after that is completed.
So maybe the back half of ’15.
Thanks.
Let me answer the second question first Toni and it’s a definite yes answer to the question for exactly the reason you mentioned.
Its kind of we knew that these margins improvement would come in step changes and obviously the completion of the IDN BON platform migration is going to be a key step and it needs to be completed before you start seeing the savings going through the P&amp;L.
So that will be surely back loaded.
I would say as I mentioned earlier actually prior to completing that there’s going to be the old and the new platform kind of running together for a little while so that may lead to a slight increase in us while we’re doing that and then a mark improving in the margin.
And we’ll follow our strengths as we move to the Buyside and I think what you’ll see is that we continue to have features and functionality and content for the Buyside migration and as Stephane said that migration will go through the end of – certainly through the end of this year and frankly into ’16 as well but once we are able to shut down the old platforms we’ll hit the bulk of the savings.
But I think there is a pretty fertile field out there for us on the Buyside and one which we’ll want to continue to serve and find new ways to serve and we’ll look for the greatest areas of opportunity and we’ll build appropriate product and we’ll go where we’re fit for purpose and let that opportunity and our readiness guide our entry into the market and frankly we’ve had continuous and ongoing discussions certainly with the largest folks on the buy side and we think that’s a very attractive opportunity for us.
Thanks a lot.
We’d like to take one final question please.
And our last question is from the line of Matthew Walker with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
If Matthew is not there then that will conclude our call.
I don’t think we have anyone else in the queue.
So with that we will wrap it up and we want to just thank you all for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference call will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
Eastern through midnight on February 18 2015.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and using access code 349783.
International participants please dial 1 (320) 365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1 (800) 475-6701 and (320) 365-3844 and access code 349783.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
If you should require assistance during the call please press star and then zero.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Frank Golden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our financial results for the first quarter.
Our CEO Jim Smith will start today’s discussion followed by Stephane Bello our CFO.
Following their presentations we will open the calls for question and we would appreciate if you would limit yourselves to one question each in order to enable us to get to as many questions as possible.
Throughout today’s presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business and it’s also the basis on which we provide our 2015 outlook.
Now today’s presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our investor relations department.
I would now like to turn it over to Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we will begin with a review of the first quarter results and I will also outline our three strategic priorities for the year.
Now to the results for the quarter.
As I stated in our earnings call in February we have made significant progress putting the company back on a solid footing and you can see that in the numbers we report today.
We are off to a solid start to the year both operationally and financially.
Importantly we are on track with our expectations for the balance of the year.
Our guidance for the year is to return to positive organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis.
And based on our results thus far we continue to believe that will be the case.
Now as we pointed out last quarter in light of the increased volatility in foreign currency markets we cautioned that FX would have a higher than usual impact on our results in 2015.
That indeed proved to be the case in the first quarter.
Therefore I will provide you with both our reported results for the quarter and our results before currency enabling you to see the underlying progress we are making.
Revenues were down 3% on a reported basis but were up 2% before currency a full 500 basis point swing due to currency in the quarter.
EBITDA was down 2% with a margin up 20 basis points on a reported basis.
Before currency EBITDA was up 4% and the margin was up 60 basis points.
Underlying operating profit was down 2% and the margin was unchanged on a reported basis.
Before currency operating profit was up 6% and the margin was up 60 basis points.
Adjusted EPS was $0.44 down $0.02 compared to the prior year but up $0.04 before currency.
Net/net given our solid start to the year we are reaffirming our full year 2015 outlook.
Now let me discuss several trends that we are seeing in the business that give us reason for cautious optimism regarding our prospects for stronger growth and profitability.
First some context.
2014 was a year of solid accomplishment in execution across the company.
2015 marks the year we move from fixing problems to executing against a clear customer focus strategy and more on that in a moment.
This is the year we begin to realize tangible benefits from all of our hard work over the past three years particularly around the simplification programs in our financial business.
That is evidenced by a nearly 300 basis point improvement in financials revenue growth as compared to one year ago from minus 3 to flat.
It is the best performance for our financial business since the second quarter of 2012.
And just as impressive is financials EBITDA margin improvement of 250 basis points in one year.
So the underlying trajectory of this business continues to improve and we expect this will continue through 2015 and into 2016.
It’s also encouraging to see that in addition to financial’s improving performance momentum in our legal business continues to build evidenced by organic revenue growth of 3%.
If you exclude U.S.
Print it was up 5%.
This performance was driven by 9% organic growth from our solutions businesses and a slight increase in our U.S.
online revenues.
Lastly we continued to execute on the capital strategy we announced 18 months ago.
Now we have returned more than $3 billion to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividends since October 2013.
I have already discussed financial and legal’s results for the quarter; so therefore I will speak to several other key metrics that reflect the improving trends.
First financials net sales were positive in the first quarter and were positive in all regions.
This marked the fourth consecutive quarter of positive net sales and year-on-year improvement in nine of the last 10 quarters.
Second last quarter I discussed the three major product and platform migrations taking place this year.
These include migrating our remaining legacy buy side and foreign exchange customers on to the unified platform and migrating our large real time infrastructure platform which we refer to as IDM bond on to Elektron.
I’m pleased to report these programs are on schedule.
On the product migration side we have covered about one-third of the $700 million in revenue that’s involved in this program and we are on track with our plans.
As I said previously we expect that these migrations will result in downward pricing adjustments in some instances which will constrain financials revenue growth this year.
And on the platform migration side we have moved 60% of customers to the new Elektron platform with half those customers now entirely off the old platform.
That does mean we are incurring some dual running costs until such time as we close the old platform later this year.
Turning to legal the 3% organic revenue growth reflected the best performance since the first quarter of 2011.
As I just indicated our US online revenue grew in the first quarter our first quarter of positive growth for that business since 2009.
And print revenue now only 14% of total legal revenue declined 6%.
Stephane will provide more detail in a moment.
Tax and accounting continues to execute well and had a strong start to the year with revenues up 10% 7% of which was organic.
And although IP and science revenues were flat for the quarter due to some timing items primarily related to transactional revenues subscription revenues were up 3% and that represents 80% of the business.
Finally our global growth businesses started the year strong with revenue growth of 8% of which 4% was organic and I will remind you that GGO results are included within each of the four business segments.
So let me conclude by discussing the three strategic priorities that I’ve set for the company.
I think of these priorities as our path to accelerated growth over the next few years.
First strengthen and enable the core.
Following several years of acquisition driven growth we are now focused on consolidating products and platforms across our businesses and we believe there’s room to grow organically in all of them.
So while we continue to invest appropriately in our flagship offerings we are also focused on reallocating both OpEx and CapEx across the enterprise to fund those businesses we’ve targeted with the most growth potential.
Furthermore our transformation program is a significant part of strengthening and enabling the core.
We’re unlocking the power of the organization as we link content and solutions on scalable platforms to better serve our customers and to drive efficiency and reduce costs.
Number two improving our go-to-market capabilities.
We know that to improve the experience of our customers we must do more to support our salespeople and customer service representatives.
Earlier this year I created a new position Chief Customer Officer led by Mark Schlageter.
Mark will ensure that we’re investing in better sales training retention and development tools.
And also that we develop consistent standards in customer metrics to accelerate sales opportunities and enhance customer experience which I believe can drive meaningful improvement.
And thirdly we are investing in high growth adjacent market segments in areas where we have strong product customer footprint and scale.
We are prioritizing resources behind high growth opportunities with an expectation that this can also drive better performance over the next several years.
So to wrap up we are off to a good start to the year with growing momentum.
The strategy is working.
The team understands what we’re trying to achieve and we will continue to execute with focus and determination.
Over the balance of the year I look forward to dedicating the bulk of my time to the growth opportunities that will drive the business in 2016 and beyond.
Now let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim and good morning or good afternoon to you all.
As Jim just indicated currency had a more material impact than usual on our results.
And that impact is clearly shown in the 500 basis point swing between reported revenues which were down 3% and revenues before currency which were up 2%.
Now in line with the way we’ve always discussed our results in the past I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today’s presentation.
This slide provides a snapshot of our first quarter results.
On a constant currency basis first quarter revenues were up 2% and they were up 1% organically.
Our financial business was down by about half a percent organically which rounded to flat while our three other businesses grew 5% in aggregate during the first quarter and they were up 4% organically.
Adjusted EBITDA was down 2% with an EBITDA margin of 26.4 up 20 basis points compared to the prior year period.
Excluding impact of currency EBITDA was at 4% and the margin was up 60 basis points compared to the prior year.
Our Q1 operating profit margin was flat compared to the prior year however excluding the impact of currency operating profit was up 6% and the margin was also up 60 basis points.
Now let me point out that we do not expect margins to move in a straight upward trajectory each quarter this year due to a number of factors.
These include the timing of some expenses in the second quarter as well as the timing of some of the platform migrations within our financial business which we discussed with you before.
Now let me provide with you some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with legal.
Demand for legal services in the U.S.
market as measured by Peer Monitor was up slightly.
So the trend of modest improvement in demand for legal services continues.
However demand for litigation services which is the largest practice area was slightly negative in the first quarter.
As Jim just indicated legal grew 3% over organic in the first quarter and this was its best organic revenue growth performance in four years.
Let me point out that the first quarter is likely to be legal’s strongest from a revenue growth perspective because transactional revenue growth was especially high.
In fact transaction revenues for the quarter which for legal are really services revenues represent 13% of the total and they were up 17% in Q1 13% organic driven by strong performances in our law firm marketing solution business and in our managed services business.
Subscription revenues which accounted for about three-quarters of the total were up 3% all organic.
Once again the strong organic performance of our subscription revenue base during the quarter demonstrates the strength of our underlying business.
Turning to our profitability metrics the EBITDA margin was down 100 basis points while the upper end profit margin decreased 50 basis points.
The margin decline was primarily due to the timing of expenses and we still expect legal’s EBITDA margin for the full year to be broadly flat compared to the prior year.
Here’s a more detailed look at the revenue performance of the three main sub-segments within our legal business.
US online legal information which is 41% of total revenues was up slightly for the quarter which is the first time it has been in positive growth territory since 2009.
Since Q1 of last year we have actually seen a 200 basis point improvement in the growth rate of this business.
This continuing trend of improvement is very encouraging and it is attributable in large part to the success of rolling out Practical Law across the U.S.
legal research market and also due to improving Westlaw retention.
As you may recall we acquired Practical Law in early 2013 at a time when it was primarily focused on the UK legal market and since then we have invested organically in developing Practical Law solutions for the North American market.
US print revenues were down 6% and this is in line with the rate of decline we have experienced over the last few quarters.
Importantly U.S.
Print revenues represent an increasingly smaller portion of legals to the revenue base.
It was 14% this quarter versus 16% two years ago.
And as such the negative impact on legal’s overgrowth rate is gradually diminishing over time.
Excluding US print the rest of our legal business grew 5% organically during the first quarter.
Finally the strong first quarter performance was also driven by our legal solutions business which continued to grow at the solid pace and which represents an increasingly large proportion of legal’s total revenue base.
As a reminder these solutions businesses consist of everything except for U.S.
online legal information and U.S.
print.
In aggregate they made up of 45% of legal’s total revenue in the first quarter and they grew by 10% 9% organically.
As mentioned earlier some of this strong organic growth performance was driven by higher transactional revenue at fine law and Pangaea 3 as well as continued strong growth in our corporate council business including Serengeti and our U.K.
business.
Our tax business had another very strong quarter.
Revenues for Q1 grew 10% of which 7% was organic.
Recurring revenues which are about 80% of the total also grew 7% organically in the quarter.
From a profit standpoint EBITDA was up 10% in the quarter with the margin increasing 80 basis points and we continued to reinvest some of the revenue flow through from this business in its highest growth opportunities.
For the first quarter upper earning profit was up 17% with the margin up 220 basis points.
And as you can see on this slide tax and accounting’s overgrowth performance in Q1 was driven by two largest segments professional and corporate which delivered very strong organic revenue growth rates of 12 and 9% respectively.
IT and science revenues were flat for the quarter and this performance was primarily the result of a lower number of transactional deals compared to the prior year.
More on that in a moment.
Turning to profitability metrics for the first quarter the EBITDA margin and the upper end profit margin were down 430 and 500 basis points respectively.
The margin decline in Q1 was driven in part by some timing factors and by the impact of negative revenue mix compared to the prior year specifically higher service-related revenues and lower transaction revenues.
Now while the revenues was flat for the quarter subscription revenues which made up about three-quarters of the total were up 3% so transaction revenues declined 11% all organic as large one-time deals signed in Q1 of 2014 were not repeated in the first quarter of 2015.
And as we always remind you small movements in the timing of revenues and expenses can impact margins in any given quarter for our IP and science business and therefore full year results are more reflective of the segment’s underlying performance.
Now turning to the first quarter results for financial and risk business revenues on a reported basis were down 6% with currency having a significant impact; however excluding currency the business was just slightly shy of flat on an organic basis.
This represented an improvement of about 200 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 and 300 basis points improvement compared to the prior year.
It was also a best performance since the second quarter of 2012.
The near flat organic revenue growth performance reflected the fact that the positive impact of our annual price increase was upset by lower price realization resulting from the migration of some of our foreign exchange and buy side customers to new products on the unified platform.
The EBITDA margin for the quarter was up 170 basis points due to the simplification actions we took in 2014.
Before the impact of currency from both periods and adjusting for the impact of the charges we took in Q1 last year EBITDA increased 9% and the margin was up 250 basis points at 27.3%.
As we mentioned earlier we will be incurring some dual running costs as we work to migrate the IDN BON real time network.
And we continue to expect to complete the migration in the latter part of the year and that is when we would expect to see a more pronounced improvement in the F &amp; R margin.
This platform migration is progressing as planned and it is on track with around 60% of clients now installed on the new network and about half of those are running solely on the new network.
Operating profit was flat for the quarter with the margin up 100 basis points.
And again excluding the impact of currency and charges the upper ending profit was up 14% and the margin was up 220 basis points versus the prior year period.
As we expected currency had a significant impact on the first quarter results and this was especially visible within financial and risk which is where we carry the lion’s share of our currency exporters.
In order to give you a better sense of how that business is progressing towards the 30% margin objective we removed the impact of foreign exchange from the reported EBITDA margin and we also excluded the negative impact of the charges we took last year in Q1 in order to get to an underlying margin number.
And as you can see on the slide excluding both these items from both periods F &amp; R’s adjusted EBITDA margin increased 250 basis points in the first quarter to 27.3%.
Needless to say this is a steady performance particularly given the revenue decline over the prior 12 months.
Now looking at the financial and the risk revenue in a bit more detail you can see on this slide that recurring revenues which is about 75% of the total declined 1% during the quarter all organic.
And this decline was primarily the result of commercial realignments offsetting the impact of our annual price increase.
Recoveries about 11% of the total were flat for the quarter.
As a reminder these are low margin revenues.
And as some of our third parties move to a more direct billing approach with our customers we do expect recoveries revenues to decline over the balance of the year which once again should not have a negative impact on margins.
Transaction revenues which is 14% of the total were up 3% all organic.
As expected we did see improvement across all our transaction businesses in the quarter as a more normal level of relativity return to the currency and fixed income markets.
Now turning back to our consolidated results and looking at our free cash flow the first quarter is usually our weakest quarter from a cash generation perspective and this quarter was no exception.
It is not reflective of what we expect for our full year performance which to remind you is between 1 billion 55 and 1 billion 75.
Although negative our free cash flow was 70 million better than the prior year driven primarily by lower cash charges.
Now turning to our earnings per share performance first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.44 per share $0.02 lower than a year ago.
The slightly higher tax rate 16% as opposed to 14% last year had a $0.01 negative impact on adjusted EPS while foreign currency had a $0.06 negative impact on a year-on-year basis.
So to wrap up we are pleased with the start of the year and based on the first quarter’s results we are reaffirming our outlook for the full year.
Let me now turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Stephane and that will conclude our formal remarks.
And we would now like to open the call for questions.
So if we could have the first question please.
Certainly.
[Operator instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Drew McReynolds RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning and congrats on the quarter.
Just a couple of quick questions within F&amp;R.
You commented on approximately one-third being migrated of that US $700 million.
Just wondering what that percentage would have been at the end of Q4 2014 and then just with respect to the decline in recoveries I guess the question for Stephane presumably recoveries get inputted into your organic revenue growth calculation.
So just wondering what kind of declines you are expecting and then just lastly the price increase within F&amp;R is that all effective kind of Gen one or do price increases get staggered throughout the year? Thank you.
All right.
Drew let me try to take these questions starting from the last one to the first one.
Yes the price increases are effective Jan 1.
Regarding the decline in recoveries recoveries are not a large proportion of our older revenue base as I mentioned.
So they are absolutely including the organic growth rate and we have factored what we have projected to be a decline in the guidance that we gave to you.
So this is not a surprise.
You may recall us talking about the declining recoveries for the last year or so.
I think we are going to see a more marked reduction in the coming quarters.
It’s hard to predict exactly how much it is going to be; it is going to have some level of impact on the organic growth but as I said we’ve already included that in the guidance that we provided.
And your final question was about the migration of the $700 million revenue base that we have to do on Eikon.
We are progressing on that pretty much as expected and I would just refer to what we said before which is at the end of the year we expect that we will have about 10% of F&amp;R’s revenue on non-Eikon desktops on legacy desktops if you want.
As of the end of the first quarter we probably had 25 26%.
So about 1.6 billion of our revenue base of F&amp;R on Eikon and so we have about 16% left to migrate and by year end we expect that this 16% number will go down to like 10%.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of a sense of the pace of the migration we expect.
That’s great Stephane.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Manav Patnaik Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is actually Greg calling on for Manav.
In F&amp;R the transaction growth was pretty good.
Just wondering how that’s tracking so far in 2Q and kind of what kind of growth you need from that part of the business to continue to drive margins in F&amp;R and is that 3% a reasonable run rate going forward? It’s a reasonable run rate Greg.
It is very hard to predict what transactions will do but if we can keep the run rate of 3 to 5% I think that’s pretty much what we would be counting on for the balance of the year.
Okay.
And if I can sneak one in just saw some changes in the management at Reuters News just wondering if you can give an update on how you think about the news capabilities both strategically and as a source investment.
Sure.
Let me take that one.
We think that our news offerings are a vital part of our product offerings really across the business.
But particularly in the financial sector and we are committed to continuing to provide the kind of high quality journalism that our customers have become accustomed to.
We did have a change there.
Andrew Ashbash did a terrific job for us over the last couple of years and he moved on for another opportunity that he found compelling.
We wish him luck in that role and we are actively recruiting to fill that position.
And news is a vital part of our mix and it’s really woven into the DNA of this company in a pretty fundamental way.
And we are committed to continuing that excellence for years and years to come.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Next we will go to the line of Vince Valentini TD Securities.
Please go ahead.
The lower price realization at F&amp;R I’m just trying to figure out how that stages through the year.
You’re going to be continuing to migrate some of these foreign exchange and buy side customers so does that headwind actually get bigger with each passing quarter or is it pretty much all in the first quarter run rate? Good morning Vince it’s Stephane.
I think we would expect the headwinds coming from the lower price realization to continue at about the same pace throughout the remaining three quarters of the year and probably also going into the first quarter of next year.
That’s what we would expect.
But it’s important to know that absent these -- this factor this lower price realization the underlying trend of the financial business is pretty clear that we have been very clearly in positive organic growth territory.
Do you have that figure as opposed to the -0.5 if it wasn’t for the price changes that are obviously temporary would you have been +1 or +2 on organic revenue growth this quarter? Yes somewhere in that range.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good morning.
A question about FX.
I know that rates can vary a lot but could you help us think based on today’s rates about what the EPS drag would be for year? And also if we take the 18.5 to 19.5% operating margin guidance what that might look like on a reported basis.
I would like to try to get us all at least somewhat level set there.
Yes Sara let me try to take that one.
Look we don’t like to try to mark-to-market impact the foreign exchange because rates are fluctuating so much.
Like today I saw the largest exposure we have is obviously a long Euro position against the dollar and I think I was reading this morning that the Euro reached a three-month high against the dollar and went back about one-tenth.
So this changes so much from one day to the other that it is pretty hard to predict.
I would say first it stayed the same as where they are today.
The ongoing impact of foreign exchange is probably around $0.04 or $0.05 a quarter is what I would estimate.
But again that’s why we provide our guidance in a constant currency basis on all the metrics because then it’s much easier not to have to change our guidance all the time and just point out what the impact of foreign exchange is quarter after quarter.
And would that 60 basis point operating margin drag that we saw in the quarter from FX is that probably the right amount to think about for the rest year again assuming no change in rates? It’s probably about right yes.
Okay.
Great.
And then legal could you give us some color to think about margins for 2015 and is the print decline of 6% that we saw kind of a reasonable run rate at this point? Thank you.
Sure Sara.
Yes I think the print decline up 6% is probably reflective of what we expect for the full year.
It’s in line with what we have seen for a number of quarters now.
So I think that this is what we would expect from a planning perspective from an internal planning perspective.
One was very encouraging in the first quarter I think were two facts.
The first one is that our US online business returned to positive growth and as I said that was the first time since 2009 and there has been a very gradual increment trajectory and given that this is primarily a subscription business I think we are very encouraged by that trajectory.
And the second positive factor was that our solutions business continues to perform quite strongly it was up 9% organically.
Now some of that was driven by higher transaction volume but even if you look at the -- if you exclude transactions within our legal solutions business the underlying organic growth rate was still a very solid 6%.
So that business continues to perform very very well and becomes a greater percentage of the overall legal time and that’s why you see the revenue performance that you’ve seen in the first quarter.
Now from a margin perspective as I said in our prepared remarks our expectation is still that the margins will be more or less flat relative to last year.
Remember our legal business has to cope with this very negative mix impact and they are doing that essentially through a combination of getting the solutions business to scale and increasing the margins there and also being ruthless on costs everywhere else in the business.
So that’s what I would expect to see for the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Thank you and next we’ll go to the line of William Bird FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
On F&amp;R does the price headwind from product migration present that segment from breaking positive on organic growth later this year? And separately where are you on the path to realizing the 300 million in transformation cost saves? Thank you.
Good morning Bill.
It’s Stephane again.
So the -- I will refer you to the comments that Jim made in the fourth quarter with regard to F &amp; R.
I think what we expect to see is to be pretty close to breakeven on the revenue line at the F &amp; R for most of the quarters this year.
We’re going to be just up or down around that breakeven line because of the price realization impact in each quarter.
So does it prevent us from moving above the line? We may very well see a quarter where we break slightly above that line this year.
We may not.
It’s too soon to call very honestly because it’s going to be depend in large part on the transaction revenue trend but we vary what’s important is obviously to see the improvement that we’ve seen compared to last year.
And sorry Bill what was your second question? On the $300 million in transformation cost saves just wondering where you are on the path to achieving that? Yes I apologize for that absolutely.
The transformation savings remember our target’s $400 million actually.
That’s what we expect to get by 2017.
We’re proceeding well on all the transformations initiatives.
Actually we’re very much on track for 2015.
We’re very focused now on laying out the groundwork for actions which will drive savings in 2016 and 2017.
And as I said before that’s really where the bulk of the savings will become more visible in our profitability there a little bit more back loaded because obviously we’re trying to implement these programs without taking large disruptive charges.
And so as we implement that there’s enough said between the savings that are generated from the actions we’ve already taken and some actions we get to take in order to get the future savings.
So very much on plan on the transaction program at this point in time.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to the line of Paul Steep Scotia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Jim maybe you could just talk a bit about the size of the growth opportunity ultimately in tax and accounting.
It seems to be out pacing.
And then related for Stephane the margin profile there.
Where would we think that would ultimately go to over time if you don’t undertake acquisition to continue to build that business? Sure Paul happy to do that.
We’re very bullish on our tax and accounting business.
And in fact what we’re seeing in that business-- I think the current set of products that we have and services that we offer particularly as we build out the global tax workstation that serves corporate around the world we think that can maintain the kind of growth rate that we have in that business and that line for years and years to come because we see the opportunity to take it globally.
Think for a moment three years ago that business would have been 99.9% U.S.
domestic in terms of its revenue profile.
We closed last year with 20% of the revenues coming from outside the United States and we think that is great legs as we take that business around the globe.
Additionally when you think about the kinds of things that we do in terms of serving corporations in particularly multinationals in their global tax planning and remittance and management issues and you broaden that out to include the world of global tax and trade we think the opportunity frankly is enormous and that’s what we’re working very hard to do.
I mean if you looked at our list of the most promising opportunities that we see for the organization that’s right at the top of the list and we’re working aggressively to make certain that we’re putting the right kind of resources behind that both in terms of our investment dollars and also in terms of our best and brightest talent make sure we recognize that opportunity.
So we think that’s a business that has a lot of growth legs and one we’re investing in very heavily.
Yeah and so from a margin perspective Paul at this time how we try to operate that business.
If we can see top line growth of high single digits we will obviously work with the management of the business to really apply as much of the profit flowing through that growth in the business.
And if the EBITDA growth is in line with the top line growth and it’s again high single digits we are very very happy with this and try to keep that going as long as we can.
If at some point in time should we start to see a slowdown on the top line growth I think there’s an opportunity to improve the margins by maybe reinvesting a little less.
But that’s not where we are at this point in time.
Great.
And just one quick clarification Stephane.
On the F &amp; R the list at the back end of the year in terms of margins should we think of that as being relatively linear through Q3 to 4 or is it going to be overweight in Q4? Thank you.
Since it’s highly dependent on the completion of the migration of the IDN BON platform we said that will happen towards the latter part of the year.
I think you can see a greater margin improvement in Q4 than you will in Q3.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just a couple more questions on margins.
You mentioned in your prepared comments that you’re not expecting a linear progression in margins across the year.
So I was wondering if you can give some clarification for how do you expect the margins to trend across 2015.
And then also just looking at your guidance for financial and risk of approaching a 30% operating margin.
I know you mentioned some of the difficulty in quantifying your guidance over the FX impact on guidance.
But seeing that we saw 115 basis point FX headwind I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on what we should expect that to be on full year basis for the segment.
Thank you.
Sure.
Maybe for me to take that question.
Yeah I mentioned that margin evolution will not be linear.
There are a number of factors that will drive margins this year.
One which answered both of your questions is what we talked about which is the migration of the big infrastructure platform we have going on in financial and risk.
And obviously since we expect to complete that one in the latter part of the year I would expect that once it’s complete you’re going to see a much more pronounced margin improvement within F &amp; R and hence that’s going to be visible at the consolidated level also.
And that’s probably going to happen in the fourth quarter.
Now there are other factors that-- timing factors that really impact the margin from one quarter to the other.
One thing I can mention to you for instance is that we are implementing or annual salary increases this year in the second quarter.
Last year we did that in the third quarter.
So that has an impact on a year-on-year basis.
But that’s where we really point to the margin guidance for the full year and that’s I think what’s really important as you try to understand trends growing on in the business and you see that our full year guidance for margins shows a solid improvement compared to 2014.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Louis Pavia JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my call.
I wanted to ask about a comment you made in your press release that net sales were positive in all regions and that would include EMEA.
So could you-- did you talk a little bit about what you’ve been seeing in EMEA lately? Yeah I think that is particularly encouraging I think.
In fact if you look we were positive in all regions and I guess it’s the second time in the last three quarters that we’ve had positive net sales in Europe and EMEA.
So if you look we were strong in EMEA in Q1 and we were strong in Americas particularly strong in those two regions and that’s quite encouraging.
I think what we’re seeing is that some sense of stability has returned to the market there.
We have better product offerings.
It’s not real complicated.
We’ve got better product better service better retention rates and our sales force is doing a terrific job.
So you put all of that net/net together in what I think is becoming a more stable environment in the banking community there and it’s encouraging to see.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to the line of Peter Appert Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
So I was just hoping could you help me understand the dynamics on the lower price realizations in F &amp; R.
Is that a function of discounting to incentivize customers to make the transition? Or is there some other dynamic going on? And then if I could just throw in a second question.
Any update on what you’re seeing in terms of client attrition as the migration occurs are you seeing any improvements there? Thank you.
Yeah let me take that from high level and Stephane can come in if I mischaracterize anything or can add some granularity around it.
If you think about it’s more about putting a price on a product and combining products into new offerings.
So for example on the FX side we used to charge separately for Eikon dealing with heading and FX all.
And now we’re putting those together into one product at a price that’s lower than the three of them were.
Same thing as when we think about the rest of the buy side opportunities that we have where we are moving primarily a dozen Thomson One products into packaged offerings that we are selling and the combined price won’t be the net/net of all the prior prices.
I can say frankly that on the FX side we are much further along on the FX side in terms of rolling it out and the customer experience has been good.
We have in fact been able to improve our footprint as a result of having done that.
So I think we have significantly strengthened our competitive position by doing so.
But there’s a one-time cost of doing that and that’s the price realization that we are going to get from the combined product being offered at a lower price than the three products were before or as we move further to the buy side the five or six products were before if that’s helpful.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to the line of Doug Arthur UBS Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah I’m just trying to get some big picture context on legal.
I mean ex-print you grew 5% organic in the first quarter; you’re saying that’s probably the peak for the year.
I’m trying to get a sense Jim do you think this segment has finally sort of breaking out given its new components to growth or is it still a bit of a push in terms of overall growth? Thanks.
I think you’re seeing flow through in the revenue line what we saw in the underlying trends all of last year which was kind of slow and steady improvement in all the fundamentals and those solutions businesses being a greater part of the mix.
So of all the things we’ve seen in the first quarter that’s really encouraging to see.
And I do think we’re at a place where -- and a very fortunate place to have such a foundational part of our business be back in growth and I think we are back in growth in that business.
As Stephane pointed out in a couple of his comments it was particularly strong on the transactional side and that stuff is episodic and situational particularly in the legal process outsourcing business where it kind of ebbs and flows on large litigation matters right? So will it always be 3% for the balance of the year? We think that’s the high watermark but we do think that what’s happened on the underlying business is something that is sustainable and we are very encouraged by it.
We’re encouraged by the stickiness of our Westlaw product which is based on the quality of the product as you know it’s a significantly premium priced product and that’s still very well received in the market.
And then as Stephane again mentioned but we can’t underestimate is rolling out of the US products in the kind of Practical Law framework is proving to be very well received in the US market as well.
So you always hesitate to say oh things have turned but I do think we are executing better and this really is the flow through of trends we have seen over the last several quarters in terms of underlying sales.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Casey BMO Harris.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just back to the migration case could you clarify something? You mentioned -- I think you said about 60% of the customers are on the new Elektron platform.
Is that correct? And we should assume that that will be 100% by the year end but that 10% of customers will still be on a legacy desktop and will those just linger on or will they phase out through the course of ‘16 so that there will be no legacy desktops through the course of ‘16? Thanks.
Yes Tim thanks for the question and I apologize if we were not clear.
Let me try to clarify it as much as possible.
When we speaking about the IDN bunt platform this is the underlying infrastructure the pipes if you want for which the data flows.
We do absolutely expect to be 100% complete by the end of the year on this.
We were at the end of the first quarter we had 60% of our customer count that essentially have both sites if you want that were on the new platform the Elektron platform.
About half of them kind of disconnected from the legacy network that they were on and the other half were kind of dual running this.
So if you look at what we need to achieve on the balance of the year we need to get that other half now 100% on Elektron and we need still to convert another 40% of the sites to the new Elektron platform and disconnect them from the old network.
What we spoke about on Eikon is a different measure.
That’s really if you want the desktop terminal that they have got in front of them it’s not the underlying infrastructure which is Elektron and on the Eikon migration that’s where we said that we should have the vast majority of our desktop on Eikon with only 10% of the revenue base of still on legacy product at the end of the year.
Does that help clarifying? Yeah.
Thank you.
And should we expect that 10% to gradually move over to Eikon or will that linger for years? It will linger.
I mean we will probably be largely done -- I would expect all the foreign exchange should be done the asset management should be largely done we are probably going to have our guess is May 100 150 mils of revenue still to convert in 2016.
The rest is kind of will take more time but the rest represents products that have a much better retention rate overall and so that can take a little bit more time.
Thank you.
Operator we’d like to take one final question please.
Certainly.
Our last question comes from the line of Claudio Aspesi with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Two questions please.
Can you give us a flavor for how the enterprise business is performing overall? You talked about a transition to the platform but can you please give us a flavor whether growth is coming from still converting internally managed accounts or whether it’s becoming a market share gain? And the second question is about the science business.
It used to be a high growth business until not too long ago.
It has flattened out substantially and I’m wondering whether this is just a new norm or what do you thinking you can return it to growth and what plans do you have to do so? I’ll take the second question.
I know Jim wants to take the first one.
On the science business Claudio I will not sugar coat the situation.
The first quarter was not a good quarter for the business.
Flat growth is not a performance that we expect from this business.
We do expect a better performance and the margin decline is certainly not something that we would expect to see going forward.
Some of the margin decline was due to factors that are very explainable.
They’re transforming the business and so there were some cuts that they took in Q1.
Discretionary expenses they took in Q1 severance and the others they were too small to kind of call out.
There was also the impact of mix but overall the performance should have been better.
So we do expect that the performance will be better over the remaining of the year in that business.
Remember it’s also a business that’s highly impacted by transaction revenues and when you have to go with an 11% decline your transaction revenue business that obviously has a big impact on the top line growth.
And Claudio… Just as a quick follow-up-- Sorry can I do a quick follow-up? Why are the transactional revenues down so much? Because that’s something that’s very -- these are large things as we conclude primarily with government and economic entities.
And depending on how many you can book in a given quarter it has a big impact on the growth rate of the business.
Okay.
I think Claudio if you look at the-- particularly in this quarter it’s affected as much by some abnormal transactional activities in Q1 of the prior year as much as the lack of those repeating in the current year right? There are these large one-time [indiscernible] (54:05) often to governments to replenish academic libraries or to add volumes to research institutions.
And we had a particularly strong Q1 in terms of one offs or one off sales in the prior year.
When you ask about enterprise I assume you’re talking about our data fees business and what you call enterprise.
That continues to be a strong business for us.
And that frankly it’s interesting.
We think of it more as a holistic approach to our customers these days than kind of separating them from feeds and desktops because the one thing we’ve done is to tie that together and for the -- the first time now basically our terminal our Eikon terminal is just a viewer into the enterprise feed.
So we’re rather agnostic as to whether or not you take the desktop or you take the feed or how we wire it in.
But it’s kind of the quality of the underlying data that proves awfully sticky.
And frankly the -- getting those feeds wired into the infrastructure of our customers makes it very very -- makes it very very sticky.
So that continues to be a big part of the mix and it’s one that continues to grow for us.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well that will conclude our call.
I’d like to thank you all for your questions today and please feel free to follow up with us.
And I look forward to speaking to you again next quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
today through May 6th 2015.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 357002.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with an access code of 357002.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning thank you for standing by and welcome to the Thomson Reuters Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for your question and instructions will be given at that time.
If you should require any assistance today please press star followed by a zero and an AT&amp;T operator will assist you.
As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our financial results for the second quarter.
Our CEO Jim Smith will start today’s discussion followed by Stephane Bello our CFO.
Following their presentations we will open the calls for question and we would appreciate if you would limit yourselves to one question each in order to enable us to get to as many questions as possible.
Throughout today’s presentation keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business and it’s also the basis on which we provide our 2015 outlook.
Now today’s presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our investor relations department.
With that I will turn it over to Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today we will begin with a review of the second quarter results and our outlook for the balance of the year.
Now lets turn to the resultts for the quarter.
As I stated on our Q1 earnings call we've made significant progress putting the company back on a solid footing and you can again see that in the numbers we reported today.
We had had a good first half of the year both opertaionally and financially.
Importantaly we’re on track with our expectations for the balance of the year.
Our guidance for 2015 is to return to positive organic revenue growth on a constatnt currency basis and we are on our way towards achieveing that objective.
We cautioned last quarter that increased volatility in foreign currnecy markets would likely have a higher than usual impact on our results in 2015 that indeed route to be the case again in second quarter.
Therefore I'll provide you with both our reported results for the quarter and our results before currency so you can clearly see the underlying progress we are making.
Revenues were down 4% ona reported basis but were up 2% befoe currency a full 600 basis points swing due to currency in the quarter.
EBITDA was down 2% with the margin of 40 basis points on a reported basis while before currency EBITDA was up 3% and the margin was up 50 basis points.
Again on a ported basis underlying profit was down 1% and the margin was up 60 basis points.
Before currency operating profit was up 7% and the margin was up 100 basis points.
Adjusted EPS was $0.52 $0.01 better than the prior year period.
And before currency EPS was $0.07 better than last year a 14% increase.
We also continue to execute on the capital strategy program that we announced in 2013 and since that time we have returned over $3.8 billion to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividends.
Lastly given our encouraging first half performance we again reaffirm our full-year 2015 outlook.
Some additional highlights for the quarter first and foremost financial achieved its first quarter of revenue growth in more than three years up 1% and net sales were positive in the quarter and we are positive in all regions for the second quarter in a row.
This marked the fifth consecutive quarter of positive net sales and we have seen year-over-year improvement in 10 of the last 11 quarters.
Second as I discussed in Q1 the financial business has three major migrations this year that are all on schedule two are revenue related and one is cost takeout related.
The two product revenue related pieces involve migrating our remaining legacy foreign exchange and buyside customers on to our unified platform and making some commercial pricing adjustments.
We are on track having converted about half the $700 million in revenue that is involved in this program these migrations as expected have resulted in downward pricing adjustments in some instances which is constraining financial’s revenue growth this year.
Despite this pricing pressure our financial business revenue grew 1% organically in the quarter the platform migration involves moving our large real time global infrastructure on to Electron we have now moved over 90% of customers to our new Electron platform with 85% of those customers now entirely off the old platform.
We continue to incur some dual running cost which is dampening the margin.
And that will continue to be the case until we close the old platform in the fourth quarter resulting in significant savings.
Turning to legal revenue growth was 2% importantly U.S.
online revenue again grew slightly for the second consecutive quarter which is very encouraging and is reflective of improving net sales and higher retention rates for Westlaw.
As I mentioned last quarter we had not seen organic revenue growth in U.S.
online legal since 2009.
Tax and accounting continues to execute well and had another good growth dampened a bit by government business which Stephane will cover.
IP and Science returned to growth and was up 1% a bit weaker than expected due to difficult prior year comparison and an 8% decline in transaction revenues.
Subscription revenues rose 4% finally our global growth businesses achieved revenue growth of 6% all organic and I will remind that you that GGO results are included within each of the four business segments.
So the trends that we are now seeing with each of our four businesses back in a growth mode give us reason for optimism regarding our prospects for improving organic revenue growth and profitability as we look forward to 2016.
The financial business has turned the corner and we are beginning to realize the tangible benefits of the team’s good work over the past three years as evidenced by a 400 basis point improvement in financials organic revenue growth as compared to year ago.
A minus 3% to plus 1% and just as impressive this financials EBITDA margin improvement of over 100 basis points in one year.
As it continues to make progress toward its 30% target.
It is also encouraging to see that momentum in our legal business continue in the second quarter reflected by revenue growth of 2%.
That is 3% excluding this performance was driven by 5% growth from our solution businesses and marginal growth in U.S.
online revenues for the second consecutive quarter somewhat offset by a print decline of 5%.
So in summary we are pleased with our first half performance and growing momentum.
The strategy is working which is reflected in today’s results.
Going forward we will continue to prioritize resources behind the highest growth opportunities with the greatest change to improve our prospects in 2016 and beyond.
Not let me turn it over to Stephane.
Thank you Jim and good afternoon to all of you.
As Jim just explained currency again at a significant impact on the results.
As reflected in the 600 basis points swing between reported revenues which were down 4% and revenues before currency which were up 2%.
This slide provides a snapshot of our second quarter and six months results.
For the rest of the presentation I will speak to revenue growth before currency in line with the way we always have done it.
So on a constant currency basis second quarter revenues were up 2% or organic of financial business was up 1% organically while our pre-order businesses were 2% organically in aggregate during the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was down 2% with an EBITDA margin of 28.2% up 40 basis points compared to the prior year.
Excluding the impact of currency EBIDTA was up 3% and the margin was up 50 basis points compared to Q2 last year.
Our second quarter operating profit was down 1% compared to the prior year and the margin was up 60 basis points.
Again excluding the impact of currency operating profit was up 7% and the margin was up 100 basis points.
Now there were some negative factors both last year and this year which impacted the year-on-year comparability of our second quarter performance.
As you may recall we booked approximately $30 million of charges in the second quarter of last year which did not happen this year.
On the other hand we implemented our annual merit increases on April 1 of this year of three months earlier than we've planned.
So unbalanced the 100 basis points improvement in the margin addresses growth this quarter genuinely reflects a continuing improvement in the underlying performance of the business.
Now let me provide you with some additional cover on the performance of our individual businesses starting with legal.
Demand for legal services in the U.S.
market was again up slightly.
The third consecutive quarter of improvement with four of the last five quarters showing modest growth.
As Jim just indicated legal grew 2% or organic during the second quarter slightly below the 3% increase in the first quarter as both description and transaction revenue growth rates were slightly lower than in the first quarter as we expected.
Transaction revenues for the quarter which are primarily services revenues and which represents 13% of the total were up 10% all organic.
Once again driven by strong performance in FindLaw [Jeffry] (ph) and Latin America.
Subscription revenues which accommodate for about three quarters of the total were up 2% again all organic.
Turning to our profitability metrics for the quarter.
The EBITDA margin was down at 160 basis points only operating profit margin decreased 80 basis points.
The margin declined was primarily due to the impact of salary increases which is I just said came into effect in the second quarter versus the third quarter last year.
For the full-year we continue to forecast that legal EBITDA margin will be broadly flat compared to 2014.
This next slide shows a more detailed look at the revenue performance of the three main sub-segments in our legal business.
U.S.
online legal information which is 39% of total revenues was up slightly for the quarter as it was in the first quarter.
So the positive trajectory continues for this business.
The continued improvement in retention for Westlaw is making a significant contribution is retention rates up 60 basis points compared to 2014.
In addition practical law continues to perform strongly is that business in the US now about three times the size it was when we acquired it two and half years ago.
US print revenues were down 5% excluding the impact of U.S.
print the rest of the legal business that were 3% organically during the quarter.
And finally this quarter’s performance was once again driven by our legal solution businesses which continued to grow at a solid pace.
These solutions businesses consist of everything except U.S.
online legal information and U.S.
Print.
In aggregate they made up of 45% of legal total revenue in the second quarter and they grew 5% for organic.
This strong organic growth performance was driven by our legal enterprise solutions business which includes Elite and Serengeti and Pangea3 legal managed services business as well as strong growth in our investigations and public records business.
Now let me spent a moment on legal improving growth dynamics.
As you can see on this slide in total legal business were 2% organically in the first half of the year as compared to flat in the first half of last year into a 1% organic decline for the whole of 2013.
This improvement is directly related to the evolution of a revenue mix and to the gross profile of the three main business segments within legal which are the defected on the slide.
Our U.S.
Online legal information business that improves from minus 2% both in 2013 and in the first half of 14 to slight growth in the first half of 2015.
This is a very encouraging turn around in what is legals most profitable business segment.
The solutions businesses were 7% organically in the first half of this year up from 5% organic from the same period in 2014 and 3% organic in 2013.
These solutions businesses represent almost promising growth opportunities and that counted for 46% of legal’s revenue base in the first half of the year.
They are delivering strong and steady growth.
And finally the decline in our U.S.
Print business appears to establish at around 5% to 7%.
In this business which is highly profitable will become an increasingly smaller percentage of legal store revenue base.
So it is the combination of the improving growth performance of our U.S.
Online business as well as the increasing size of the faster growing solution businesses which are driving a steady improvement in legal’s over growth performance.
Now turning to tax net going that business has another good quarter was revenues up 6% of which 5% was organic.
Recurring revenues about 80% of the total was up 7% organically in the quarter which is inline with the first quarter.
From a profit stand point EBITDA was down 8% in the quarter with the margin declining 270 basis points.
Now the margin was negatively impacted by three factors this quarter.
First the decline in revenue in our government business which is small but fairly volatile.
Second the timing of our annual salary increases and third investments we continued to make in selected high growth opportunities.
These three negative impacts were partially upset by currency which had a positive impact on margins in Q2.
For the second quarter operating profit was down 3% with the margin down 80 basis points for the same reasons that highlighted EBITDA.
As you can see on the next slide our professional and cooperated segments which represents 70% of the business maintains the strong performance they recorded in the first quarter with organic growth rates of 10% and 11% respectively.
And our knowledge solutions segments return to grow up in the second quarter.
As I have just mentioned our smallest segment the government business at a challenging quarter was revenue down significantly due to timing related items or some contracts.
Although government a small percentage of the total business each week performance had an impact of 170 basis point on revenue growth this quarter.
So if you were to exclude government tax and accountings revenue growth would have be closer to 8%.
Revenues for the government business are less predictable in nature and so from time-to-time we do see results such as this in a given quarter.
However we continue to expect that [indiscernible] to deliver another strong performance for the full year both on the top and bottom line levels.
IT and science revenues were up 1% for the quarter.
Again a big disappointing but slightly better than the first quarter.
This performance was primarily the result of growth in subscription revenues partially offset by a lower number of transactional deals compared to the prior year period more in that in a moment.
The EBITDA margin and the operating profit margin were down 120 and 130 basis points respectively also driven in large part by the timing of the annual salary increases.
Subscription revenues which make up about three quarters of the total continue to perform well and were up 4% or organic during the second quarter.
Transaction revenues declined 8% or organic due to softer sales in the Academic segment.
And as you can see on the slide the results for the first half of the year are similar to the second quarter as we have seen very similar trends for transaction revenue throughout the first half of the year.
As we always remind you small movements in the timing of revenues and expenses can impact margins in any given quarter for the IP and Science business and therefore full year results are more reflective of the segment’s underlying performance.
Now turning to our financial and risk business second quarter revenues were down 6% on the reported basis with currency once again having significant impact to exclude currency revenues were up 1% for the quarter whole organic this is the first time the business has posted organic revenue growth since Q4 of 2011.
As Jim mentioned a moment ago this represents a 400 basis points improvement compared to the prior year.
For the balance of the year we expect a decline in recoveries revenues to accelerate as more third parties move to direct billing.
Due to this projected decline in recoveries which to remind you are relatively low margin revenues we are not expecting to see incremental improvement in the growth rate of FNR for the remainder of the year.
Once again mid stage we are positive in all regions and both the Americas and Asia showed positive organic revenue growth for the quarter which were flat.
The EBITDA margin for the quarter was up 200 basis points due to the simplification actions we took in 2014 which for the impact of currency from both periods and adjusting for the impact of the charges we took in Q2 of last year the margin was up 110 basis points to 28.7%.
As we mentioned last quarter we continue to incur some dual running cost as we work to migrate and close the real time network.
We do expect to complete these migration in the latter part of the year at which time we expect to see a more pronounced improvement in the margin.
As Jim mentioned the platform migration is very much on track it is about 90% of our clients now installed on the new network and about 85% of those clients running solely on the Electron platform.
As we have said before we need to migrate 100% of our customers onto the new platform in order to enjoy the full cost benefit of these migration and we continue to expect to get there in the fourth quarter.
Operating profit was up 3% with the margin up 160 basis points for the quarter and again excluding the impact of currency and charges the margin was up 120 basis points.
Now looking at the financial and risk revenue in a bit more detail recurring revenues which were 76% of the total were up 1% during the quarter whole organic recoveries about 11% of the total were down 1% for the quarter and as I just mentioned we expect the decline to accelerate in the second half of the year and into 2016 as some of our third-party partners move to a direct billing arrangement with our customers.
Finally transaction revenues which is 13% of the total were up 3% all organic.
Our FX pool [indiscernible] and businesses all contributed to these growth for the quarter however we saw some softness in for FX matching transaction revenues is [indiscernible] than in prior year.
During the first half of this year we have seen a bit of decoupling between volatility and volume in the foreign exchange rates.
Volumes have been lower despite higher volatility due to the fact that market makers appear to be less willing to risk trading capital.
We are not yet calling this a trends but it is something that we are closely watching.
Now you can see on this next slide how the financial and risk business mix has continued to evolve as fees and non-desktop products have become a greater proportion of total revenues.
In the second quarter of this year these two businesses made a 36% of the finance and risk revenue base as compared to 32% in 2013 and they grow organically at 6% and 5% respectively.
So we had about third of our financial and risk business growing mid single digits in Q2.
Desktop revenues have improved the growth rates significantly since 2013 as a result of a far better product and improved retention rates.
I should also remind that best of revenues in the second quarter of 2015 were impacted by the migration activity these are resulting in lower price realization.
Excluding the negative impact from this migrations best of revenue would in fact be growing slightly.
That means the vast majority of our best of revenues are slowly getting back into gross territory.
So the return of financial business to grow is driven by factors that are quite similar to what I just described when I discussed our legal business.
First we need the higher growth part of the business risk feeds and hopefully transactions continue to grow and become a bigger percentage of the total revenue base.
And second as we complete the migration of our legacy desktops to icon we are seeing a meaningful improvement in the gross performance of that business minus 6% decline in 2013 to minus 3% in the second quarter of this year and in two positive territory once we complete the commercial adjustments associated with the remaining product migrations.
Finally let me review financial and risks progress relative to their EBITDA margin target as we do every quarter.
As was the case in Q1 currency had a significant impact on the second quarter results.
On this slide we have excluded the impact of currency and the negative impact of the charges we took in Q2 last year.
And that gets us to the underlying margin number.
The second quarter reflected the impact of the annual salary increases for employees but even thinking this into account FNR’s EBITDA margin increased by a 110 basis points versus last year.
Now turning to our consolidated results let me start with our free cash flow performance for the first half of the year and working from the bottom to the top of the slide.
You can see that free cash flow for the first six months of the year was $644 million compared to $517 million in the prior year period.
This included $54 million of cash payments related to our simplification programs as compared to $159 million in the first half of 2014.
Free cash flow excluding the impact of the simplification charges was $698 million $22 million higher than the prior year period.
Now it’s an important to decide cash taxes for the first six months of this year were $72 million higher than the first half of last year which was largely timing related.
So the trend in our underlying free cash flow performance continues to be very strong to adjust for that factor.
As a reminder in the second quarter we completed the billion dollar buyback program in last July and this May we announced a third billion dollar buyback which we expect to complete by the end of 2016.
As you mentioned we continue to execute on the capital strategy program which we announced in October 2013 and we have now returned over $3.8 billion to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividends over the period.
Now turning to our earnings per share performance second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.52 per share a penny better than a year ago.
Foreign currency at a $0.06 negative impact on a year-on-year basis so before currency EPS improved by $0.07 about half of which represented better operating performance on the other half was lower charges.
So to wrap up we are pleased with our start of the year and based on the first half’s results we are reaffirming our outlook for the full year.
With that let me turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Stephane and that concludes our formal remarks on quarterly results and now I would be happy to open the call for questions.
So if we could have our first question operator.
Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from the line of Toni Kaplan representing Morgan Stanley.
Please go head.
Good morning everyone.
This is actually [Patrick Hoff] (Ph) filling in for Toni this morning.
Lapping quarters of positive net sales in FNR can you give us a sense of whether the third quarter will be a tougher comp than 2Q for net sales.
its hard to look at it from a quarter-to-quarter what’s really important is to look at the trajectory Okay thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Drew McReynolds with RBC Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much and congrats on the revenue growth.
Jim just now that you have a stronger footing clearly under each of the this four businesses and sounds like there is still cyclical tailwind out there.
Just wondering if and when there any change to your acquisition versus organic growth focus as we move into 2016 tend on kind of revisiting things now that your potentially focused on things internally.
Thank you.
Yes frankly we turn our intention externally right now.
We’re looking at markets and customers and opportunities for organic growth and I found that very very refreshing and if you look at the underlying activities that have driven the growth in the second quarter they have been positive changes in core products and new products and new services and those are incredibly sustainable developments inside the business so we’re going to look first growing the businesses that we have before turning to acquisitions so I don’t see any real change and focus based on where we are today that doesn’t mean we don’t always have our eyes open and we are always evaluating opportunities as they present themselves we just find more attractive opportunities today inside our business and inside the customers and markets that we’re serving right now.
So I am sure that will always be some level of tactical acquisition activity but we’re still focused on executing right now and serving our customer.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is actually a Greg calling on for Manav just wanted to ask about your pricing and reference data business.
I know I’ve seen a couple of headlines out that you’re adding in today pricing but I guess more broadly just wanted to hear about your strategy in that business and what you think you said in the competitive landscape? Well let Greg as we get both of that’s been a very strong growth business for us and its I think we have a very strong business there.
We’ve been investing behind adding capability there and we see it as an very very important plank under pending our risk offerings we’ve seen solid growth there and we continued to invest behind that business.
Okay thank you.
And we have a question from Vince Valentini with TD Securities.
Please go ahead sir.
This is Vince.
Two questions on potential problem so Europe I mean there always been some economic challenges there anything changing in your conversations with your major customers there and then secondly global growth plus 6 percentage is a bit less than what we have been seeing in that in prior periods without being getting up closure to double digit so you seeing some challenges there in some of those emerging markets starting to decelerate little bit.
Thanks.
Sure I would point out first Europe encouraging net sales of positive in Europe again for the second consecutive quarter and so we’re encouraged by a performance in Europe I mean even with all the volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty in Europe currency fluctuations not withstanding as far as emerging markets go I step on could probably provide some more color on that but we’re still bullish long term on that despite the fluctuations quarter-to-quarter Stephane any color.
Yes good morning Vince the two things I would highlight as first this is now a business that is close to $1.02 billion in revenues so growing that revenue base at 6% is not a bad performance the other thing I would point to is that when we speak about some of the commercial adjustments that impact our funds and risk business these do impact our original also and so the organic growth rate is a little bit depressed if you want because of these commercial adjustments this year.
Our next question is from the line of Sara Gubins with Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is [David Chew] for Sara.
So it sounds like about half of the FX and migration is complete so when do you expect to get all 700 in revenue over on… As we said David in the past we do expect it is going to happen over 2015 and 2016 I would expect migration of our foreign exchange based on to be largely but not fully completed by the end of this year so there is still going to be some let over if I like a better word if you want in the first quarter of 2016 where we should be very much done with this one by the first half of 2016.
On the buy side on the asset management side we are adopting a much more deliberate approach there and so we know that this is going to take us well into 2016 and potentially a little bit further but I would say that the vast majority of the migration is the migration is progressing very well and most of the commercial adjustments impact that we talked about are going to essentially hit this year with the little bit still hitting us in the first quarter of next year.
Okay.
And just one follow-up so is it still fair to assume that this migration represents about a 200 basis points drag to revenue? You are speaking about the impact of the commercial adjustments I would say it is about in that region I mean I think in the quarter we said that if you were to exclude the impact of the commercial adjustments the growth [indiscernible] somewhere between 2% and 3% I think that is exactly where it would have been also in Q2 maybe just a little bit above 2% into the second quarter.
Okay.
Perfect thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow-up on the previous question relating to pricing realization you mentioned clearly that there is some headwind there from the FX migrations but can you talk about pricing for new customers on desktops? What we have seen is that once we move customers on the new product the pricing is much more resilient than it is on the legacy product because the product is simply much better so this is reflected both our ability to achieve the annual price realization on the revenue base for several years in a row now most importantly in the improving retention rates of the business which are really have really increased dramatically as I think we said during our remarks Great and then one quick follow-up on legal I want to get your expectations for the growth for the balance of the year should we still continue to expect the first quarter to be the highest growth for the year do you already think we might see a little bit of a bounce back in the back half? Yes I would say what I would always recommend is looking at the trajectory of the growth rate not quarter by quarter but more in annual basis if you look at our legal business it was negative 1% in 2013 moved just to slight positive growth rate last year in 2015 in the first half of this year I think it was about 2% that is probably a good projection for the full year be around 2% and then from there in 2016 and 2017 because of the mixed dynamics I explained on that slide we would expect a gradual improvement in the growth rate year after year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we will go to line of Bill Bird with FBR.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about churn maybe you could speak to kind of icon churn versus total desktop churn and how much room you think there is for improvement and just secondly you were very clear in kind of calling out accelerating recoveries declines.
How big do you expect the upcoming headwind to be from that at FNR.
Thank you.
Well I think the first part of that and then list upon the second part of that.
We’re seeing a significant improvement in churn I assume you are talking about retention with over 200 basis point improvement in our overall retention rates where we’ve got new modern icon platforms in place and then in fact if you look at some of the other desktop business that we have the remaining was that are same enroll management or imagine we have very solid in fact better retention rates there.
And I think we reported for this quarter we are approaching 90% now in terms of the retention rates on those icon platforms.
So we have seen the improvement there I can tell you that internally we are targeting increased improvement and we see that based upon customer SAP we see it on with the product on improvements to customer service that we have and so we intend to continue to improve that.
But the good news about those improved retention rates is they do bring down that customer churn and then obviously this is far more profitable to keep an existing customer than to go and try to win a new one.
So we are focused on that we’ve seen marked improvement over the last two years in our retention rates and we think there is room to improve it even further.
And Bill on your question regarding recoveries really hard to predict exactly how much of the headwind will be because it depends upon the timing which of third party partners are moving to the direct dealing arrangement with customers.
But in the first half the rate of decline of recoveries was in the area of like 1% and we would suddenly expect that to accelerate to mid-to-high single digits of decline in the second half of the year.
Again I mean what’s important there is that this is not really highly profitable revenue for us.
So it doesn’t have any impact this change in direct dealing arrangement has no impact on the growth rate of EBITDA of free cash flow or operating profit which is really just a contractual change in terms of how we do the billing with our customers.
Thank you.
And we’ll to the line of Paul Steep representing Scotia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess for Jim and Stephane both maybe could talk about where the investments going in terms of the CapEx spend that’s been out there this year and how we should think about major platform refreshes particular I guess I was thinking legal for about five years into Westlaw.
How you are thinking about redeployment in that capital and how we should think about it into 2016 and 2017 into big refreshes.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Let me start with good morning.
I would say that where the investments are going right now there are two clear priorities the first one is investments in our highest growth areas.
So that will be areas like global trade management KYC and risk in general or legal solutions business and the lag that’s where we making a fair bit of investments.
And also I think as we look next year and the year after where we need to continue to make investment is make sure that we keep improving the stability of our platforms and really make sure that we have one of the strongest infrastructure that we can because that’s actually the backbone of the company.
So that’s really where I think investment will be growing going forward.
But as we’ve always done and you have seen us doing that for the next four or five years we really can do that and we can really manage the cycle of product refreshment investment in growth and reinforcement of the stability of the infrastructure trying to manage within the envelope that we have with just be smarter I would imply that.
Great thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Appert representing Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
So Jim that the risk here up over simplification sounds like the fourth quarter is a pretty big inflection for as in our in terms of growth and profitability the pricing reset done as the migrations completed to cost down with the elimination of duplicate networks.
I’m wondering if one that fair assessment and two more importantly does it suggest that perhaps it more confident that you get to the 30% margin in 2016? I think that’s probably a fair view the situation if we can continued to execute over the balance of this year 2016 looks very encouraging.
And may be as just a follow on to that I’m wondering in the context of that whether you think better than 30% is potentially achievable on an intermediate term basis.
Well we’re going to get let’s get the 30% - right.
I think honestly look if you look at where our margins are and you look at where some competitor margins are there is clearly opportunity for us to continued to be more efficient inside the business and once we get to the 30% margin what will have to do is weight the tradeoffs between improving the margin right and investing and things that will drive growth.
you got to be certain that the topline will come if you make that investment so that will be a trade off if as we put together our 2016 plan 2017 plan and I suspect the constant attention inside the business.
There are opportunities for us to be more efficient and their opportunities for us to continued to drive bottom line growth and will just manage that in real time as opportunities present themselves.
Right thank you.
There we have a question from line of Doug Arthur with UBS Research.
Please go ahead.
Doug are you there?.
Hi operator we’ll take the next question.
Okay we’ve got a line of Aravinda Galappatthige with Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
With respect to the FX exposure at the free cash flow levels thus far as if you can give us a little bit more color once you factor in the followed contracts and the hedges that you have Sure happy to take that question.
At the EBITDA level if you look at in absolute dollar terms I think the impact year-to-date is above the $100 million or so now at the free cash flow level there are two important offset.
There is some offset in working capital movements and there is the biggest offset which is the hedges that we have on the group that the foreign exchange impact the currency impact on free cash flow this year is much lesser than $100 million is about $30 million.
Okay great.
That’s very helpful and just lastly with respect to the the ID on [indiscernible] platform any idea or can give us some color around what sort of the potential uptick with be as we kindly get that behind us and we’re talking something in the range for about 150 basis points.
Thank you.
I say this I would say that dual customer running in the second quarter where in the area of $10 million plus or minus so you can extrapolate from that and get a sense of where our margins would have been or could be once we don’t have to incurr these dual running costs anymore and as you can see right next from the progress we get [indiscernible] from that 30% margin target which obviously makes us in very good that’s actually a pretty good performance given that if we are able to get there by the end of the year if we are able to get to an exit rate of 30% as we end the year we would have done that in spite having facing much much higher headwinds from a transaction revenues than what we were expecting over the period that the lapse since we set that target out.
So it is a good result but basically as I said the platform is the migration certainly going to help the margin in the fourth quarter.
The $10 million per year in dual running cost is that a quarterly number? Yes that is a quarterly number.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And we go to line of Tim Casey with BMO.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Given the volatility on foreign exchange markets I mean obviously that is having an impact on your reported results but are you getting any benefits on the transaction or any of the other FX platforms you have from a revenue point of view you see increased volatility helping you on some of the trading platforms are you seeing any benefits in business that way? That is a very good question and you’ve seen what we reported in terms of transaction revenue growth this quarter it was like 3% that is lower than what we would expected to be given the volatility that we are seeing in the markets and so as we mentioned on the call what we are seeing is the little bit of decoupling between high volatility and high volumes and we think that due to the fact that some of the largest players particularly on the sell side are essentially staying bit on the sidelines as we have seen them in the past as there are number of investigations going on and so what we think is happening is that they just want to make sure that operationally they are completely compliant from a trading perspective and then they reenter for the market.
But we will have to say time will tell but at this point in time your point is a good one given the increased volatility in terms of we would have expected to see more volume we are not seeing that volume and it is not just on all platform I think it is a little bit across the board on foreign exchange side the another area where we have seen good continued growth is on our FX platform so treasurers and buy side continue to have a very healthy level of training activity but the biggest chunk of trading and volume is probably not as high as what we would expect the given currency volatility.
So little bit of benefit transaction volumes were up 3% as I said on the call we would have expected that transaction volume to be up by more given the volatility we are seeing in the market.
So that is a bit of a disappointment.
And would you characterize that level of activity is that a high margin revenue piece or is it relatively… No that is very high margin transactions are very high margin.
Right okay Thank you.
Operator I think we have one final question and I am happy to say I think we have found Doug Arthur so Doug? Can you hear me now? Yes we can.
Thanks.
I just wanted to go back to legal for a second the 39% of revenues that is online legal can you just sort of refresh our memory in terms of what are the main components that are sort of keeping the growth from turning more positive thanks.
So that is very much what we refer to our Westlaw business and also Practical Law this is really the two products that our U.S.
online business and that core legal research in the U.S.
and I think that what is impacting the core legal research and the business is general demand for legal services so that is where we give you money to which gives you a sense of what the market demand is for legal services and that one has been just marginally positive on number of quarters And do you still see sort of a tension between large legal firm demand and small and medium sized firms or is that all sort of going the same direction? Let me jump in there I think we have been surprisingly encouraged in both sectors over the past I would say six to eight quarters.
And what the dynamic has played out there if you think about a bright philosophy going very fast it’s a very small part of the mix Westlaw in the U.S.
particularly is the big grow up and as you know that we had a lot of price competition from Lexis in the marketplace we were very disciplined about selling on value and price and that appears to have been a successful though painful past the tape and frankly we’re seeing.
What we saw was the downturn of Westlaw period offset some of the growth in practical law we saw that stabilize and now Westlaw itself get back in growth for the quarter which was highly encouraging and we’ve done that on the back of quality wins in the phase of pretty stiff price competition.
So I think if you are looking at damper on that growth it’s been price competition again Westlaw primarily from Lexis.
Great.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A Okay.
That was our final question and we’d like to thank you all for joining us to review our second quarter results.
Speak to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay starting at 10:30 a.m.
this morning and running through August 5 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 363082.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 international participants 320-365-3844 with an access code of 363082.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and the using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Our first question comes from the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great thanks.
Jim maybe we could talk just a little bit with regards to where we're at on the overall platform shutdown and migrations across F&amp;R to date and what's to come and maybe the rough timing as we move into 2016.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Look I think we're right on track.
And in fact I think if you look at the road maps that we've put together everything's coming together quite nicely.
We – if you'll look back over the last couple of years when we started this journey we laid out in fact on a slide at Investor Day a series of platforms that we were going to be shutting down.
Some of them were big and some of them were small and we've just been ticking them off exactly on the schedule that we had anticipated.
In fact we're pushing harder and looking at more things to add to the consolidation road map.
And I think we've got a – if you look inside the company I think we've got a really good operational plan we've got accountability design (28:31) and I think we have a pretty solid road ahead of us and a lot of opportunity to continue to accelerate that consolidation of platforms onto fewer more common more modern reliable robust platforms.
So we're right on track and achieving everything that we laid out two years ago and in fact I think we see increased opportunity to go even further.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And just I guess the only follow-up on that would be around customer service.
How close do you think you are in terms of consolidating a lot of customer service operations across the various platforms? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I don't quite know what you mean by consolidating customer service operations but I do think that we have some real pockets of excellence and made a lot of progress on customer service.
In fact the person who runs the customer service operation and the financial business accepted an award from Salesforce this year for best deployment of that technology to improve customer service.
So we're quite proud of that.
So I think we'll begin to spread more common excellent platforms across the organization.
And I think that if you look at it I think our customer satisfaction rates continue to go up so I think that has a lot to do with the fact that we are doing a better job with customer service around the organization.
And we'll look to be more consistent with those practices and we'll look to leverage more common technologies but as far as consolidating into one customer service operation that's not on the road map at this point.
Hi it's Andrew.
Stephane I have a nerdy question to begin with.
The D&amp;A looked much lower in the third quarter $273 million for both D&amp;A together.
Is this a new run rate for D&amp;A going forward? Yes Andrew I mean if you look at the details by segment I think you see it was primarily in our Legal business that you saw the D&amp;A expense drop a bit and that's a reflection I think primarily of the fact that the WestlawNext – that the investment associated with WestlawNext are starting to be more fully depreciated.
So I think overall if you recall when Jim and I took our respective roles we put a much bigger emphasis on what we refer to internally as cash OI as a key metric which is what's the absolute level of cash that we spend.
Doesn't matter if it gets capitalized or expensed through the P&amp;L and that has led on a fair bit of discipline.
We've kind of like kept our CapEx spending very flat over the years and for a number of years depreciation has been running way above our CapEx as a percentage of revenue.
Eventually the two should start converging as the discipline on cash spending is starting to shine through.
And so I think what you just mentioned is the beginning of seeing that impact.
Great.
And Jim if I could ask about the migration of FX desktops to Eikon how is that going? When do you anticipate that migration for FX desktops to be complete? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the majority of the commercial arrangements have been completed.
I think the...
80%.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah about 80% that's what I thought.
80% of the commercials have been negotiated.
We're beginning now to roll out the actual desktops themselves.
So that will come in two phases.
And we suspect that we'll be completed with that in the first half of next year.
Great.
And the same comment for just the buy-side desktops in general migrating to Eikon? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Early days very very early days on that.
Okay thank you very much.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
In F&amp;R you're heading into the important 4Q renewal season.
Could you give us any sense of whether or not based on current conversations you think we'd see positive net new sales in the fourth quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll take that.
Stephane you can add any color that I miss.
As you know the fourth quarter has traditionally been the biggest quarter for us and it's also been the most volatile quarter for us.
So it – and last year was the first year that we ever had a positive net sales since the Reuters acquisition in the fourth quarter.
Because of the – that tends to be the quarter in which the biggest banks adjust up or down based upon their plans for the coming year.
It's a difficult quarter to predict.
So I wouldn't want to call any quarter.
And as I've said in the past when you're slightly above positive or slightly below positive any one of those big bank negotiations could offset progress in a dozen smaller buy-side firms where we're making progress.
So it's a tough quarter to call.
I would say for – we've never been in a better competitive position going into a Q4 and I would not expect the swing either above or below to be of the material amount that it had been in prior years from 2008 through 2013.
Okay great.
And then following up on that I know it's still early so maybe a little bit of an unfair question but as we start to think about organic revenue growth in F&amp;R next year you've had the positive sales so far over the last several quarters.
Next year you get less of an impact from lower pricing in the second half but still negative recoveries.
And so I'm trying to think through whether or not low single-digit organic constant currency revenue growth might be a reasonable expectation somewhere in the 2-ish% range.
You've got a number of dynamics.
Let me take that question.
All the dynamics are I think positive on the recurring revenue base for all the reasons you've mentioned.
We get the benefit of improving net sales.
We do have the benefit of this annual price increase that will shine through to the revenue performance next year.
There's going to be still the impact of these commercial pricing adjustments but I would say that the peak of these – the peak impact if you want will probably be in Q4 maybe Q1 and then it starts – going to be diminishing from there pretty rapidly.
So on the recurring revenue base I would say you can see the trend starting to improve probably after Q1.
Now remember the comments I made in our prepared remarks about recovery revenues these ones will continue to decline and I think we could see an acceleration of the decline as more of our partners are moving to these direct billing arrangements.
It really has no impact on EBITDA or free cash flow generation and as you know that's really what we're very focused on.
So we'll continue to like provide you with the numbers as they look like if you exclude recoveries because they will – they may distort a little bit the reported figure for a while.
But as I said they're not very profitable revenues.
So there's – we don't really mind so much about these ones.
And then transaction your guess is as good as mine.
So hopefully these are the factors you need to take into consideration as you look at F&amp;R's organic revenue growth rate for next year.
And I'm sure we'll be able to give you a bit more color as we give you guidance for the full year 2016 next February.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Jim or Stephane just switching gears over to Legal.
A little bit better on the margin side ex-FX versus what we were expecting.
Just wondering with the reacceleration or renewed growth in U.S.
Online which is obviously higher margin is that where we're getting the year-over-year margin expansion? And then secondly as you sunset the legacy Westlaw do you expect some cost savings associated with that? Thank you.
Yes Drew let me take that question.
I think you're right.
We were very pleased in this quarter to see our U.S.
Online segment grow 2%.
I mean it's been a long time we haven't seen that kind of growth and it's massively important given the profitability of that segment.
So I think that you're absolutely right this is one of the factors that has enabled a better margin performance in the business.
Now the shutdown of Westlaw Classic will have some impact.
It's not huge.
If I'm correct I think it's about $10 million this year and maybe another $10 million or so next year.
That's – so it will have a positive impact.
But what has to be pointed out is the really remarkable work that the management in our Legal business is doing to continuously try to offset that negative mix impact that I've been speaking about for a number of quarters now where our Solutions business are growing faster than the rest of the businesses and they've got improving very very markedly improving margins but the margins are still much lower than the rest of the business.
So keeping the margins flat while this change in mix is happening is quite a phenomenal performance.
Inc.</span></strong> And if I could just follow up.
Just with respect to the timing factors just on the top line sorry if I missed this in your prepared remarks just the – can you just drill down into those a little bit more granularity? Sure.
So just what I said was that we do expect that the third quarter will mark the trough for Legal in terms of the revenue growth performance.
So it should be better in Q4.
The timing event that I referred to were twofold.
First U.S.
Print declined by 8%.
And the decline in the first half was closer to a 6% decline.
So that has an impact on the overall growth rate.
And second our Legal Solutions business grew by about 4%.
And for the full year we would expect that business to be closer to 6% and that's also what it has been year-to-date.
So by definition you can assume what we expect for the fourth quarter.
We expect that the growth rate in that business to rebound a little bit from the 4% this year – this quarter sorry.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If I might just add one little bit of color on that and thinking about the Print it's really dangerous in our business.
We try to look at this on an annualized basis and not look at every quarter as setting a trend.
And frankly some of that just has to do with the timing of either product introductions one year to the next shifting or in the case of Print when publications – when titles are published and they tend to get published on a recurring basis every year every two years or – and they don't line up necessarily to compare to prior quarters.
So that print was – or a result of just the publishing schedule as opposed to an acceleration of a trend.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning gentlemen.
A quick question for you.
Maybe it's early I'm not sure but I was wondering if you could provide any color if you've seen it in terms of – we've heard or started reading in the papers a lot more about how the volatility is hitting performance and so you're seeing funds and so forth that are closing down.
I was just wondering if that sort of head count type production if you started to see any of that impact at all in the business.
You're referring to the Financial business I assume? Inc.</span></strong> Yes correct sorry yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think if you look at what happened in terms of the quarter I wouldn't say – we've had – there's been a long trend in the financial industry of the restructuring that we've been dealing with.
You saw the financial – you were just referring to the same reports that we've seen throughout the third quarter.
But if you break that apart I think what we've seen in our business is a continued increase in the buy-side activities and a decrease in that kind of transaction volumes in the bank-to-bank market.
So I suspect that bank-to-bank market is not going to return to a growth footing anytime soon but we are still seeing overall increased transactional revenues in our buy-side activities.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And I – just within that I was wondering is there any particular notable trends and maybe there isn't just in your pricing and reference data businesses? I mean is there competition or just any trends there to call out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> A very strong business force is performing well this year.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Yeah good morning.
I was wondering if you could just talk a bit about some of the cost saves that are kind of known and reliable that you carry into next year.
You've touched on a couple MPLS and sunsetting Westlaw Classic.
Are there any others that are notable that you'd highlight? And then just separately how do you see CapEx developing really over the next couple of years? Thank you.
Yes.
Bill hi.
This is Stephane I'm going to try to take these two questions.
Let me start with the CapEx question.
We have tried to maintain our CapEx budget very consistent over the last four years and we would expect it to remain like that.
Now we do make changes in the allocations of our investments.
We really are increasingly focused on what see as the highest areas for growth and that's where we're directing the CapEx and we're doing that by effectively redeploying the savings we achieve in combining some of our infrastructure investments.
But the overall size of the CapEx spending hasn't changed and I would not expect it to change in the near term.
In terms of the other question about like the various cost savings that we're doing and what we can rely upon there's a pretty broad and ambitious transformation program that we're moving forward with.
You're seeing the impact of some of the simplification initiatives primarily in our Financial business so far.
As Jim alluded to we see surely more opportunities as we dig deeper into this program.
But I would say that our focus is probably going to be less – it was very important for us in the Financial business to hit that target of ours which was nearly 30% margin.
And as we said on the call we hope that – hopefully we can hit the target in the fourth quarter.
The focus now is really evolving as Jim always says maximizing the level of free cash flow for share growth and earnings per share growth over time.
And I would say we're very cautious to try to really work on both levers at the same time meaning continue to drive reduction in our cost structure but at the same time make sure that we invest behind what we see the growth opportunities of the business.
And because we define success not just in terms of hitting our EPS target but also hitting the target while at the same time improving the underlying organic growth rate of the business.
And we've seen progress as Jim said you cannot look at it quarter-to-quarter but year-over-year we expect to see continuing progress on that metric.
Thank you.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
I just was wondering if you could give us an update on the longer-term cost rationalizations that you discussed in the previous Investor Day.
I'm referring to sort of the broad economies of scale around your technology and content and your international offices.
I think you were targeting something around the range of $400 million in savings by 2017.
I was wondering where you were in that process and how much more we have to go as we look ahead to the next couple of years.
Yeah.
Jim said we're very much on track with that program.
It's hard – we don't really want to say where we are with that program (46:09) specifically because at the end of the day what matters is hitting our overall bottom line target that we've laid out.
We redeploy a number of these – of the savings that we generate in the business.
We really reinvest pretty heavily in the business but doing that while at the same time being able to improve profitability and you can start seeing that – payoff of that strategy in that – in these numbers.
But anecdotally we're making good progress.
I'll give you one example; Jim can give you like 100 others.
It looks that the program covers technology content real estate everything.
On the real estate side for instance we used to have back in 2012 over 500 different sites.
I think we're down – on the last report I saw we're down to 303 sites around the world.
So it gives you a sense of the magnitude.
Our goal is to get to 250.
So it gives you a sense of we're certainly not where we want to be yet but we're making good good progress.
Great thank you.
Hi it's from Morgan Stanley but thank you.
As you've been rolling out Eikon I just wanted to get a sense of if you've changed your sales strategy over time.
I know you're still focused on converting the legacy customers to shut down platforms but have you changed to also hunting new prospects? And is the upsell success similar to what you've had in the past? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think that's right.
We're doing a lot more hunting and prospecting than we were.
If you think about the Eikon journey the Eikon journey was always just quickly as we could to get the conversion done on the sell side.
And now we're focused on – and we did that successfully we did it right along the schedule we'd laid out.
And today we're going after new customers and new ground.
And I think if you look at both the combination of the gross sales performance that we have supported by the strong improvement in retention rates that we have that's proving very very successful particularly on the sell side.
As we now move into the asset management space we do have a slight change in the way we're going to market.
And that is as opposed to selling what are 14 or 15 different kind of buy-side information feeds as we did with the old Thomson ONE products.
We're now grouping them into kind of three-tiered packages for the asset management industry.
We think we're going to have much more attractive commercials for our customers there and also much more attractive packages.
Because folks who were taking one or two products couldn't really appreciate and can't really appreciate the full power of the full depth of book that we offer.
So – and I can tell you having been in some of those demos myself folks are reacting very well to the – both the added depth and breadth of the content that they're getting and how that functionality's been put together in a very useful format.
So it is a bit of a different strategy there in that we're bringing a different approach to kind of a tiered pricing structure to the asset management side and then continuing to execute on the sell side.
All right great.
And just as a follow-up it sounds like Europe got a little bit worse in F&amp;R in terms of the EMEA net new sales being negative.
Could you give us a sense of in the fourth quarter if you're continuing to see weakness there? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think – I wouldn't overread that one.
We were positive in the Americas and in Asia and slightly down in Europe right? And I wouldn't look to that as to some kind of acceleration of a trend.
And I think when I look back to prior year and we make prior-year comments as well last year was our strongest net sales performance in Q3.
And the leader of the pack in Q3 last year was Europe.
Europe had a particularly strong Q3 in 2014 so I wouldn't overread that.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Good morning.
There's been a lot of press speculation on a recent startup called Symphony and its potential ability to disrupt some of the businesses that you're in and some of your competitors.
Jim I'm wondering if you could comment on any thoughts you have on what Symphony represents and any potential alliance you might have with them.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
And I won't go into any specifics on any discussions obviously but let me just start at a higher level and say this.
We've been pretty consistent for a long time in a couple of statements and views which we're becoming even more convinced of.
First and foremost the industry does not want to be overly reliant on any one platform or provider.
And I think that's behind a lot of discussions that have been going on around messaging over the last few years.
We've been involved in all of those discussions and – or at least all of those discussions we know about – and we've had a pretty consistent approach there.
And that approach is that we believe what the industry needs is an open solution and we believe what the industry needs is – what will win in the industry is an open solution.
We're pushing the concept of a common dial tone or chat tone if you will for the industry.
Because it's hard to imagine that in any scenario if you move to a mobile phone analogy that in the future it's going to work if Verizon cell phone customers can only talk to other Verizon cell phone customers.
They need to talk to AT&amp;T customers and Rogers customers and Vodafone customers.
So we think ultimately an open federation there is going to win.
The exact nature of what that will look like will play out over time but we're committed to being a part of that to helping support that and I think that's where the industry will move toward without getting overly specific there.
As far as the nature of competition that that opens it's hard to say which messaging platform's going to win in the end.
I suspect that the nature of competition overall will get more fierce on all kinds of fronts.
And I think the world that we imagine is an open world in which our ability to help connect the financial services community means that we'll supply content and other third parties will supply content on our platforms and perhaps other platforms and this notion of coopetition is something that's going to be very real.
It's very real today and it's going to become increasingly prevalent in the future.
I think we'll see all kinds of new competitors and I think we'll see all kinds of new alliances and partnerships just as we've announced a few in the last couple of weeks.
And we've got a really interesting approach with our open Eikon approach and we've got an app store up now.
We've got developers working on applications that run on our platform to our standards and be interoperable with other networks.
So we think an open platform is going to win at the end of the day and that's what we're designing for.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the transactions business in F&amp;R.
I know 3Q was flat organic versus 3% in the first half.
And we know the FICC businesses have been under pressure at the bank but I was just wondering is that softer comp year-over-year a function of just the macro? Or is there something else that you're seeing in terms of decoupling of volumes or anything else in that business? Yes Andre it's Stephane.
Let me try to address this one.
It's – we actually have seen a – the conversions coming back between volume – transaction volumes and volatility.
The problem is it happens at a lower level in Q3.
It was overall in the quarter a little bit less volume overall.
Where we've seen that much much more strongly than anywhere else I think Jim alluded that earlier is really in the interbank trading market.
We see like a marked decline in volumes there which obviously results in less liquidity being available in these markets.
On buy-side businesses – transaction businesses are actually all growing.
But the interbank markets or primarily are (55:45) foreign exchange dealing and foreign exchange matching products where we are seeing the decline.
It's pretty clear that large banks are staying on the sideline at this point in time.
You've seen it in the trading results that most banks have reported in the last year the trading volumes are down dramatically.
And so it's not so surprising that you see it happening in our results also.
One thing I would say though is that I would keep that into perspective right? Transactions for us represent 10% of F&amp;R's revenues.
So 5% of the total revenue of the company.
And although we would love to see that growing faster it's not having a dramatic impact on the overall revenue picture of the company.
Thank you.
Stephane I know you said you liked the 2.5 times leverage ratio but I'm wondering just in the context of the success you've had in driving the margin improvement the free cash flow improvement if you'd be potentially thinking about stretching a little bit on that over the next year or two and how you think about perhaps the buyback strategy beyond 2016.
Thanks Peter.
It's a good question.
When we look at our capital strategy it's something that we look at over a very very long period of time.
And so when we decided in 2013 to modify our leverage target from what was at the time 2 times to 2.5 times we really did that with a view of that being a decision for the fairly long term.
So I don't think that you're going to see us changing that in the near term certainly.
Thank you.
Thanks very much.
Most of my questions have been answered.
So let me ask about a sector we don't talk about much IP &amp; Science.
Do you see any risk there going forward given the pharmaceutical industry seems to be coming under a fair amount of regulatory scrutiny? Any discussions with your clients that may lead you to think they'll be trimming back some of their R&amp;D budgets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think we're still bullish on R&amp;D in lots of places around the world.
So I don't see that as a particular material risk at this point.
We do remain concerned and you see it in the numbers this year particularly in the scientific side of the business.
This is a year that's been tough for the transactional businesses.
And particularly we sell a lot of database products to governments and to universities.
I mean one way or another funded by government grants and whatnot.
And this has been a tough year for discretionary purchases of additional databases for libraries particularly where we're building out in emerging markets and particularly in emerging markets that are heavily dependent upon oil prices which have been strong for us in the past.
So we think those are temporary one-off issues related to the transactional revenues.
We don't see a huge threat there Vince.
Thanks so much.
Operator we'd like to take one final question please.
Good morning.
18 months ago you gave us your EPS growth targets.
And if I remember correctly about 25% to 30% or so of that extra dollar of EPS was going to come from revenue growth.
You seem to be very comfortable with the target but I was wondering whether you believe that the revenue component of that growth will turn out to be as significant as you predicted a year ago or whether you will have to – or 18 months ago – or whether you need more cost savings and more buybacks effectively to make up for some of the revenue or whether you still think that the mix is roughly right.
That's a good question Claudio thank you for asking it.
I'd say the following.
As you said when we laid out our target achieving that target rested primarily on our ability to drive transformation and simplification savings and also to a lesser extent but to a large extent also on the capital strategy changes that we had announced.
So that's why we set it mostly with levers that are under our control that we can achieve that target.
That hasn't changed and you can see the progress we're making from a margin perspective.
You can see in the pace of our buyback program that we are obviously moving swiftly on those two levers.
Now on the revenue component it was I would say based on a couple of things.
We assume some level of modest acquisition in that revenue target.
If anything I would say the level of acquisition has been even lower than we thought it was going to be.
The organic performance though is very much in line with what we were expecting.
There are great (01:01:24) puts and takes we were hoping to do a little bit better on the transaction side with F&amp;R but on the other hand we've done better than we expected in other areas which is always what you would expect in business.
So I would say overall not much change maybe – other than the fact that as I said our acquisition volume has been a little less even than we thought as we really – as the organization has really taken to heart that call to arms as Jim said to focus on driving organic growth through innovation and investments behind the highest growth opportunities and also importantly driving scale by taking away the complexity that had been accumulated over years of acquisition activity.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just a little bit qualitative way Claudio to answer that as well.
I think we have incredible visibility into what we need to do on the cost side to deliver and I think we have the plans in place.
And if we have to squeeze harder that's capable – that's possible as well.
But that's not what we're planning on.
We think we execute as we have planned we will get there.
And if anything we're more encouraged by what we see on the revenue line long term.
I desperately do not want to be in a position where we drive to some number we've given you and hit that finish line out of gas.
I've spent most of this year focused on the top line.
I'll continue to spend most of this year focused on the top line.
When I look at our growth prospects I'm very encouraged by what I see particularly on the underlying trends.
As Stephane says transactional stuff will come and go currency can come and go but if we can keep those subscription revenues flowing and we can capitalize on some of the opportunities we're seeing around risk and compliance around KYC around the new Org ID product that we're getting a lot of traction on around global tax solutions I think there's a really good opportunity for us on the revenue line as well.
And so we're trying to manage both lines for the future.
Thank you.
So that will be our final question and we very much appreciate you joining us for this call today.
And we'll speak to you again in February.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen good morning.
Thank you for standing by.
And welcome to Thomson Reuters' Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder conference this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President Senior Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Golden.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report our financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2013.
Our CEO Jim Smith will start today's discussion followed by Stephane Bello our CFO.
Following their presentations we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Now throughout today's presentation please keep in mind that when we compare performance period-on-period we look at revenue growth rates before currency as we believe this provides the best basis to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Let me point out that Stephane will begin his portion of the presentation presenting our actual results including all charges incurred in the fourth quarter.
For the remainder of his presentation he will discuss the results excluding charges incurred in the fourth quarter which will enable you to measure our performance against the 2013 outlook we provided last February.
Lastly please note that in today's earnings release we have provided supplemental information on pages 19 and 20 which exclude the charges for each of the business units to enable you to gauge their underlying performance.
Today's presentation contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed in reports and filings that we provide to regulatory agencies.
You can access these documents on our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department.
Let me now turn it over to the CEO of Thomson Reuters Jim Smith.
Thank you Frank and thanks to those of you on the call for joining us.
Today I want to cover 3 topics.
I'll begin by discussing how we performed for the year against the outlook we provided 1 year ago.
Next I'll update you on the progress we made last year against the challenges we faced and what we expect to face this year.
And lastly I'll provide you with our outlook for 2014.
I'll then turn it over to Stephane who will review our results for the fourth quarter and the full year in more detail.
But first let's review our full year '13 results.
I'm very pleased to report that we met each of the 2013 outlook metrics despite what continues to be a challenging environment in our 2 largest markets.
We also crossed several important milestones for nonfinancial metrics which I'll discuss in a moment.
We still have more work to do in order to achieve our objectives of returning to mid-single digit growth and higher levels of free cash flow per share.
But the trajectory is encouraging and we are making real progress.
Additionally we're redoubling our efforts to simplify our company as part of our transformation program.
Now let me provide you with a high-level summary of the results for each of our businesses.
The Professional businesses were up a healthy 6% for the full year led by strong performances in IP &amp; Science and Tax &amp; Accounting up 11% and 9% respectively.
Legal was up 3% primarily from acquisitions.
It was down 1% organically.
Excluding U.S.
print which declined 6% for the full year revenues grew overall.
Stephane will discuss this in more detail later.
Financial revenues were down 1%.
It was a minus 3% organically.
We're making very tangible progress both from an operating and competitive perspective but it will take more time before this progress translates into positive revenue growth for this business.
Lastly we continue to successfully identify attack the growth opportunities in rapidly developing economies as evidenced by the 10% increase in revenues in our GGO operations.
That's 5% organic.
As we reported in October we began implementing a number of actions which distorted our Q4 results but will help strengthen our position going forward.
These actions include charges related to our transformation program a fourth quarter pension contribution significant debt refinancing and the ramp-up of our share buyback program.
These actions began the process of rightsizing our cost base and are expected to translate into significant savings beginning in 2015.
Importantly we achieved several significant operational accomplishments including the upgrade to Eikon; closing the legacy platforms like Bridge; and lastly we launched Eikon 4.0 to strong reviews.
However we did face several challenges in the fourth quarter that I want to address today.
First the global financial services market remains challenging.
Second net sales in our Financial business were negative in the fourth quarter as expected and did not show a year-on-year improvement relative to Q4 of 2012.
As you'll recall from my remarks in Q3 the fourth quarter is always the toughest quarter of the year.
The majority of the fourth quarter's negative net sales were due to large accounts and the Bridge platform closure in Q3.
Now as I've said before one quarter does not make a trend and we remain confident that our net sales trajectory -- in our net sales trajectory as we enter 2014.
Third our Legal business reported an organic revenue decline of 2% in the fourth quarter.
This is primarily due to a decline in U.S.
and Latin American print revenue.
The decline in the U.S.
print revenues we believe is structural and we're focused on how to best mitigate this dynamic.
On the other hand we believe that the decline in Latin American revenues is temporary as the business transitions from print to online.
And at the same time we're also rolling out a common Order-to-Cash system across various businesses most of which we acquired over the last 3 years and we're harmonizing our commercial policies.
This is a painful but essential step to solidify our platform for future growth.
So there was a lot of activity as we improved our position with customers launched new products continued to reduce operating expenses lowered our financing cost and funded our pension obligations.
And yes we continue to face challenges but the trajectory is positive and I'm confident the actions we've taken and will continue to take will enable us to improve growth and profitability.
Now let me highlight several key accomplishments for 2013 before I turn to our outlook for 2014.
Our growth businesses which now represent over 50% of our revenues were up 9%.
We define growth businesses as everything other than financial desktops and Legal's U.S.
core research business which includes print.
The success we're achieving in these growth businesses is a direct result of having taken a very targeted investment approach over the last several years.
We expect to see continued good growth from these businesses as they comprise an increasingly larger proportion of our revenue base.
In the Financial business.
The Financial business improved its execution capabilities which cannot be overstated.
We ended the year with essentially all 3000 Xtra customers upgraded to Eikon and now have 55% of our desktop revenue or $1.7 billion on Eikon.
This was a tremendous accomplishment.
We also saw an improvement in our net sales in 2013 still negative for the full year but much better than 2012.
And despite the lower performance in the fourth quarter net sales in the second half of the year were better than in the second half of 2012.
For 2014 I expect this trajectory of gradually improving net sales to continue with most if not all quarters targeted to show year-on-year improvement.
And we continue to execute.
We're making good progress improving our customer satisfaction ratings which were up 600 basis points for Eikon customers last year.
Finally we continue to make significant progress reducing our cost structure in a sustainable manner with more opportunity ahead in 2014 and 2015.
For example the company's adjusted EBITDA margin was essentially flat despite a 1% decline in organic revenues and about $100 million of charges in the first 9 months of the year.
And importantly these results were accomplished before the benefits we expect to achieve from the transformation program which will further simplify our organization and will contribute to drive higher organic growth higher margins and increasing levels of EPS and free cash flow per share.
We will have more to share with you on our progress and our goals during the IR Day in March.
Now let's look at 2014.
We expect the momentum that's been building inside the company to continue.
While the negative net sales of 2013 will combine with still challenging market conditions to temper our current year growth we will continue to improve our competitive position.
We cannot control external markets.
And like many we're disappointed with the softening we saw in Q4 particularly in the European banking sector and in emerging markets.
That said I'm encouraged by the way our businesses have been able to execute in these conditions.
And I'm confident that as we work more closely with our customers to meet their needs their confidence in our ability to perform is growing day by day.
Lastly while we all look forward to a faster growing -- pardon me while we all look forward to a faster growing global economy Thomson Reuters is in a position where we can drive costs out and profitability and free cash flow up by pulling the levers we have to transform the company into a more integrated and efficient organization.
Looking to 2014 we are on a positive trajectory and there are pockets of growth that we can and will exploit.
Our Financial business enters this year in a far stronger position.
Our sales people can now focus on new sales as the 3000 Xtra upgrade program is behind us.
In 2013 salespeople were more focused on upgrades than new sales.
That's not the case this year.
We expect to benefit from higher retention rates a direct result of much improved products better customer service and higher customer satisfaction.
And we forecast a marked improvement in Financial's EBITDA margin given the benefits expected from the restructuring steps we took in 2013 and will continue to take this year.
Now the Financial business will confront a number of challenges in 2014.
First banks continue to be under pressure with higher capital constraints increasing regulation and substantial fines levied all of which are hindering their growth and returns.
Second negative net sales last year will impact this year's growth.
As mentioned earlier we expect to see continuing gradual improvement in Financial's net sales performance this year.
And lastly we will continue with our ongoing platform and product rationalization program.
These programs coupled with migrating customers to our new commercial offerings are expected to result in a loss of some revenues as we strengthen our position and seek to increase market share while building a more profitable business.
As we discussed at Investor Day a focused management team combined with better products and improved systems and back-end processes have enabled us to employ a much stronger commercial discipline.
We're far more rigorous in retiring the legacy platforms and products and eliminating less profitable revenues and exiting smaller operations and third-party contracts.
The net result of these actions is likely to result in the loss of some revenue in the short term from actions such as: closing smaller products as we did with the Bridge platform; eliminating low-margin communications revenues as we move customers off expensive telecom infrastructure to lower cost delivery platform; and reducing recoveries revenues as we work with third parties and clients to build directly rather than having us do it on their behalf.
So all these actions will impact Financial's revenues in 2014.
But we are confident it will drive greater profitability and scale as we work toward our goal of an EBITDA margin nearing 30% in 2015.
Now turning to the Professional businesses.
Legal is on a positive trajectory and is expected to continue to make good progress as it evolves into a solutions business helping law firms improve productivity manage their businesses more efficiently and grow more quickly.
Legal's growth businesses will represent about 50% of its revenue base this year and are expected to continue to grow strongly.
For perspective these businesses represented less than 40% of Legal's total revenues back in 2011.
The challenge in 2014 for Legal resides on the core legal research and print side of the business which represents the other 50% of revenues.
Westlaw remains foundational to our business.
We're focused on further leveraging and integrating other tools and solutions into Westlaw as we work to boost retention and new sales.
Print is likely to decline mid- to high-single digits this year given the structural changes in the market.
However U.S.
print now represents about 15% of Legal's revenues and only 5% of Thomson Reuters' total revenue.
So the impact of this business on our overall performance is diminishing.
In 2014 Tax &amp; Accounting and IP &amp; Science are expected to continue to build from their strong performances last year.
The global markets in which they operate continue to expand and they each hold strong market positions which is expected to help drive growth.
Now for our 2014 outlook.
We forecast that our revenues will be comparable to 2013 for the company as a whole.
Last year's negative net sales in our Financial business and continuing pressure on Legal print revenues will impact 2014.
In addition as indicated during our Q3 earnings call we expect to complete fewer acquisitions this year than we did over the last 3 years as we focus the organization on driving organic growth and pushing scale initiatives aggressively throughout the corporation.
This strategy will obviously impact our overall revenue growth performance in the near term but is expected to deliver greater value for our shareholders over the long term.
Second the adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to range between 26% and 27%.
Third our underlying operating margin is forecast to range between 17% and 18%.
Finally we forecast free cash flow to range between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion reflecting the negative impact of an estimated $300 million from the charge we announced in Q3 and the loss of about $75 million in free cash flow from disposals.
Lastly given our strong capital position and our confidence in the cash generating capacity of the company this morning we announced a dividend increase of $0.02 per share to $1.32 per share.
This marks the 21st consecutive annual increase in our dividend.
In addition we expect to continue to execute on the share buyback program we announced on our third quarter call where we anticipate repurchasing $1 billion of stock by year-end 2014.
With that I want to thank you and I now turn it over to Stephane to discuss the fourth quarter results.
Thank you Jim and good morning or good afternoon to you all.
As Frank indicated earlier I will speak to revenue growth before currency throughout today's presentation.
So this first slide provides a snapshot of our fourth quarter and full year results on a reported basis.
These reported results reflect the impact of the charge we took during the fourth quarter consistent with what we announced last October.
And as you have read in our press release this charge had a $260 million impact at the EBITDA level and a $275 million impact at the operating profit level.
Our fourth quarter revenues were up 1% due to acquisitions.
Organic revenues declined 1% primarily due to the continuing lag effect from negative net sales in our Financial segment.
Overall our Professional businesses grew 5% during the quarter 2% organic while F&amp;R declined 2% and was down 3% organically.
For the full year revenues were up 2% due to acquisitions.
Organic revenues declined 1% due to the same drivers that impacted Q4.
Now adjusted EBITDA on a reported basis in Q4 was down to -- 32% and our EBITDA margin was 18.7%.
This decline was primarily due to the charge I mentioned earlier.
Foreign exchange had a 50 basis point positive impact in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the full year was down 7% and the margin declined 210 basis points.
And here foreign exchange had a 20 basis points positive impact on EBITDA margin for the full year.
Underlying operating profit in Q4 declined 50% again primarily due to the $275 million charge.
And for the full year operating profit declined 15% impacted by the aforementioned charge and increased depreciation and amortization expenses.
Now for the remainder of this presentation as Frank mentioned I will be speaking to our results excluding the charges include -- incurred in our fourth quarter results since these results are comparable to the full year 2013 outlook we did provide in February of last year.
So let me focus on the results highlighted in the orange-framed box on each slide which excludes the Q4 charges.
Adjusted EBITDA was down 3% and the margin declined 90 basis points due to a 1% decrease in organic revenue growth.
The EBITDA decline was primarily related to the Financial and Legal businesses which I will explain in more detail in a moment.
Underlying operating profit was down 5% and the margin was down 100 basis points.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $714 million up 1% from last year and earnings per share was $0.49 as compared to $0.54 in Q4 last year primarily due to the decline in underlying profit and to a higher tax rate.
For the full year and again excluding fourth quarter charges adjusted EBITDA grew by 1% and the margin went down 10 basis points.
Let me remind you that the numbers on this slide exclude the charges we took in Q4 but they do include $97 million of severance charges we took over the first 3 quarters of the year.
The margin declined only 10 basis points despite the negative organic revenue decline and despite about $100 million of severance expenses reflects the progress we are making to take costs out on a sustainable basis.
Underlying operating profit declined by 2% and the margin was down 50 basis points primarily related to the charges across the first 3 quarters and to the increase in depreciation and amortization I mentioned earlier.
Free cash flow was $1.7 billion excluding the $500 million voluntary pension contribution that we made in the fourth quarter.
This was down slightly from last year's free cash flow performance.
The primary driver for the free cash flow decline was the loss of about $150 million of free cash flow from divested businesses.
The free cash flow from our ongoing businesses was actually up 7% or over $100 million for the year.
Now let me provide you with some additional color on the performance of our individual businesses starting with our Legal segment.
The U.S.
legal market remains challenging.
Demand for legal services as measured by Peer Monitor was down 1% in 2013 following a flat year in 2012.
During the quarter our Legal business grew 2% but was down 2% organically.
This organic revenue decline was due to 2 main factors.
First as expected U.S.
print continues to be a drag on overall performance.
Our U.S.
print business was down 5% in the quarter.
As Jim mentioned this is a structural decline which we do not expect to turn around in the foreseeable future.
However the silver lining is that U.S.
print represents an increasingly smaller portion of our overall Legal business.
It represented about 15% of Legal's total revenue in 2013 down from about 24% back in 2008.
As such the impact of U.S.
print on Legal's overall revenue growth performance should continue to diminish over time.
The second factor which negatively impacted Legal's revenue growth in the quarter was our Latin America business.
Overall our Legal business in LatAm was down 10% organically in 2013 with most of the decline taking place in Q4.
And this decline is due to a combination of factors: First we are seeing a slowdown in emerging markets which is also impacting the legal publishing market in LatAm.
And second we are in the process of rolling out a new Order-to-Cash system across our Legal and Tax &amp; Accounting businesses in Latin America.
And as part of this project we are also harmonizing tighter commercial policies in the region.
The implementation of these common processes policies and systems is causing some short-term pain on our performance but they are essential in solidifying the platform we have established in the region and they will position us for strong growth in the future.
As the last phase of the new system implementation is scheduled for Q2 we expect some additional short-term pain this year but we remain confident in the growth prospects of our LatAm business in the long term.
If you exclude the impact of print in the U.S.
and in Latin America Legal's organic revenue growth would have been positive 1%.
Subscription revenues which account for 70% of total Legal revenues were up 7% in Q4 1% organic.
And transaction revenues which are 13% of the revenues these were down 13% primarily due to lower book sales in Latin America.
Turning to our profitability metrics.
Legal's EBITDA decreased 6% and the margin was down 270 basis points in Q4.
The margin decline was due to the revenue decrease in LatAm the dilutive impact of the Practical Law acquisition and the decline in core legal research.
Finally operating profit decreased 9% due to the same factors.
Although we've made every effort to offset the negative revenue mix impact through cost savings the decline in Latin American revenue combined with the dilutive impact of an acquisition the size of PLC overshadowed these efforts in the fourth quarter.
For the full year our Legal business grew 3% and was down 1% organically.
Excluding U.S.
print which declined 6% for the full year revenues grew organically.
Subscription revenues again 70% of total Legal revenues were up 8% for the year and up 2% organically which reflects expanding sales in our newer lines of business somewhat offset by a continued challenging core legal research market.
And transactional revenues which represented 14% of the total Legal revenues for the full year were down 5% again primarily due to lower book sales in Latin America.
Now again looking at our profitability metrics for the full year Legal's EBITDA decreased 1% and the margin was down 150 basis points.
And as you can see on this slide we experienced a 300 basis points decline in our margin due to the combined effect of the revenue decline in our Latin American business the dilutive impact of the PLC acquisition and the decline in print with each of these 3 factors contributing to a decline of about 100 basis points individually of 300 basis points combined.
And we're able to offset about half of this decline through an improvement in profitability in our growth businesses and through expense savings.
Finally operating profit decreased 3% and the margin also declined 150 basis points.
Now for 2014 we estimate that Legal's EBITDA margin will be flat to down slightly from its 2013 level as we only experience the year-on-year impact of the PLC acquisition for the first couple of months of the year.
And finally here's a more detailed look at the performance of our 3 subsegments within Legal.
U.S.
Law Firm Solutions' revenues were flat and down 1% organic.
This is our largest subsegment representing just over 50% of Legal's revenues for the year.
Within that subsegment Business of Law increased 7% driven by strong growth from FindLaw and Elite while research-related revenues were down 1%.
The second subsegment Corporate Government &amp; Academic which is about 1/4 of the total was up 1% for the year.
And the last subsegment Global Legal which is also 1/4 of the total achieved revenue growth of 14% driven by the acquisition of PLC.
It was down 1% organically given the decline in Latin America.
Now turning to our Tax &amp; Accounting business that segment delivered another strong quarter.
Revenues grew 11% of which 7% was organic driven by strong growth across all segments.
Recurring revenues about 85% of Tax &amp; Accounting's revenue base grew 7% organically.
And transaction revenues grew 6% organically.
From a profitability standpoint EBITDA and operating profits were each up 10% in the quarter with the related margins up 40 and 50 basis points respectively.
For the full year revenues were up 9% 5% organic.
EBITDA was up 10% with an 80 basis points margin improvement while operating profit was up 12% with the margin up 90 basis points.
And finally as you can see on this slide we achieved strong growth in the Tax &amp; Accounting business for the full year across each segment except Government.
However we did see the start of a turnaround in the Government business in the fourth quarter as revenues increased 7%.
We implemented a number of changes to that business in the second half of the year including a new management team and we expect that this business will continue its turnaround in 2014.
Turning to IP &amp; Science.
Fourth quarter revenues grew 11% with organic revenue up 9%.
Each of the IP &amp; Science businesses recorded good organic growth for the quarter.
There were several large contracts signed by our Life Sciences and our Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research business in the quarter that did drive the growth.
The strong revenue growth led to a 17% increase in both EBITDA and operating profit.
As I have said previously full year results are much more representative of the performance of the business.
And on a full year basis revenues were up 11% 4% organically.
EBITDA grew 8% with the margin declining 60 basis points due to the dilutive impact of the MarkMonitor acquisition.
Operating profit grew 6% with the margin declining 100 basis points.
Now we have shown this last slide in prior quarters and we've just updated it to show you the full year balance between subscription and transactional revenues for IP &amp; Science.
As you can see the majority of the revenue is subscription based and showing strong growth.
Subscription revenues in the fourth quarter were up 8% all organic and represent about 3/4 of IP &amp; Science's total revenue base.
Transaction revenues in Q4 were up 16% due to several large onetime deals that were closed in the fourth quarter.
And for the full year subscription revenues were up 12% out of which 5% was organic driven by strong growth from Life Sciences and Scientific &amp; Scholarly Research both of which were up 7%.
And finally transaction revenues for the year were up 6% of which 4% was organic.
Financial &amp; Risk revenues were down 2% with a 1% contribution from acquisitions.
So organic revenue was down 3%.
These declines reflect the continued impact of our sales performance over the past 12 months and a repeat of the lower transaction volumes we saw in the third quarter.
Recurring revenues which are 76% of the total declined 2% organically.
Transaction revenues increased 2% but they were down 4% on an organic basis as a result of lower volumes across the industry.
As we noted in Q3 this decline in transactional revenues is largely market related.
Recoveries which are about 10% of total revenue declined 5% due to a combination of desktop losses and the fact that some exchanges have moved to billing customers directly.
As a reminder recoveries are low-margin revenues.
The EBITDA margin was down 100 basis points and the operating margin was down 140 basis points.
As we said on the third quarter call we did not anticipate the same margin improvement in Q4 as we saw in Q3 but this decline was in line with our expectations.
That said we expect improvement in the trajectory of the EBITDA and OI margins for F&amp;R to continue and our full year margin performance is far more indicative of the underlying expense savings the business is achieving.
So for the full year Financial's revenues were down 1% with a 2% contribution from acquisitions.
So organic revenues were again down 3%.
Recoveries contributed to 50 basis points of the organic revenue decline with the remainder a result of the sales performance in the second half of 2012 and the first half of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA declined 4%.
Let me remind you that these results include $73 million of severance charges that were incurred in the first 3 quarters of the year.
So Financial &amp; Risk's full year EBITDA margin declined a modest 40 basis points for the full year despite a 3% decline in organic revenues and despite incurring $73 million of severance charges.
It is a testament to the success the F&amp;R team is having in taking costs out by effectively managing headcount shutting down platforms and operating more efficiently.
Underlying operating profit was down 8% with the margin decreasing by 90 basis points.
And depreciation and amortization was up $26 million compared to the prior year.
By the end of the fourth quarter we had installed 122 000 Eikon desktops with essentially all legacy 3000 Xtra customers upgraded to Eikon.
So F&amp;R almost tripled the number of installed Eikon desktops from 45 000 at the end of 2012 to 123 000 as of today.
As we had said before the light [ph] between billed and installed Eikons would be eliminated over time and you can see that that was the case as of January 31.
Now here is an update on a slide we presented last quarter.
You can see on this slide that at year-end 2013 55% of our Financial desktop revenue base has now been upgraded to Eikon.
This represents about $1.7 billion in annual revenue.
The remaining 25% which is still to be upgraded represents largely Thomson ONE accesses [ph] and it is expected to be completed over the next couple of years.
As such reporting the quarterly increase in Eikon desktop will be a less relevant metric going forward now that all the 3000 Xtra terminals have been upgraded.
As a reminder desktop revenues make up around 45% of the total revenue of Financial &amp; Risk.
Now I'd like to update you on our capital position free cash flow and earnings.
And as Jim said 2013 was a very active year from a capital structure standpoint.
We issued $2.8 billion of debt in 2013 including $800 million to redeem and pre-fund some bonds maturing October 2014.
Through these various transactions we took advantage of the very favorable interest rate environment to extend the average maturity of our debt portfolio from 7 to 9 years while at the same time reducing our average interest rate to about 5%.
We ended up the year with a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.1x and we had $6.7 billion of net debt outstanding.
We also bought back $400 million of our outstanding shares out of which $300 million was executed in the fourth quarter alone.
And this puts us well on our way to achieve $1 billion buyback target by the end of 2014.
Free cash flow for the full year was about $1.2 billion and this number included the voluntary $500 million pension contribution about $27 million of severance payments made in the fourth quarter as well as the loss of $150 million related to disposals.
So full year 2013 ongoing free cash flow which excludes the pension contribution and severance payments was $1.6 billion $100 million higher than in 2012 representing a 7% year-on-year increase.
Adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.21 per share down $0.33 from the prior year primarily due to the $275 million of charges incurred in the fourth quarter.
Excluding these charges EPS for the quarter was $0.49.
A higher tax rate had a negative $0.02 impact on EPS during the quarter and currency had a positive $0.01 impact in the quarter.
Full year 2013 adjusted EPS was $1.54 per share down $0.35 versus the prior year driven again by the severance expenses incurred in the fourth quarter.
Excluding fourth quarter charges full year EPS was $1.83.
And currency had no impact on full year EPS.
Now Jim has presented our key metrics for the 2014 outlook so I will speak to those that he did not address.
Capital expenditures are expected to remain at approximately 8% of revenue similar to 2013 and I'd like to remind you that CapEx has remained flat since 2011.
Interest expense is expected to range between $450 million and $475 million and reflects lower interest rates resulting from debt refinanced in 2013.
The projected interest expense is comparable to 2013 despite an expected increase in average debt outstanding.
And we forecast that our effective tax rate will range between 13% and 15% in 2014 up slightly from 12% in 2013.
Now I would like to remind you that we historically pay more in cash taxes than our effective tax rate may imply.
For instance our cash taxes in 2013 were over $300 million as compared to the $87 million booked tax expense based on our effective tax rate.
This is somewhat unusual and attributable to multiple factors.
For instance a number of noncash expenses we book under IFRS including amortization expense for intangible assets related to most of our acquisition activity.
These expenses are not deductible from a cash perspective.
Also we obviously continued to pay cash taxes on the businesses we are in the process of divesting but we exclude the results from these businesses and the associated taxes from our adjusted earnings.
Finally 2 important reminders.
First our EBITDA and OI margin outlook for 2014 include about $120 million of charges announced in Q3 which we expect to take over the balance of the year.
Most of these charges will consist of severance expenses and additional lease write-downs we will take in connection with the lower headcount.
Second our free cash flow projection reflects the cash impact of the charge we took in Q4 and the majority of the additional $120 million charge we expect to take throughout 2014.
And we expect the total cash impact of this charge to be around $300 million on a $240 million free cash flow performance.
And finally our 2014 cash flow will also be negatively impacted by loss of about $75 million of cash coming from the businesses we divested last year.
So our free cash flow projections for 2014 reflects the impact of these 2 items which in aggregate amounts to close to $400 million.
With that let me turn it back over to Jim.
So in closing I would characterize 2013 as a year of solid progress.
The turnaround in our Financial business continues with meaningful improvement in execution across product development platform consolidation back-office systems integration and product deployment.
These successes are being recognized by our customers as reflected in higher retention rates and improving customer satisfaction ratings.
In addition although net sales were negative they improved over 2012.
And we ended the year with more than 122 000 installed Eikon customers nearly triple the number from 1 year ago with 55% of desktop revenues now upgraded to Eikon.
And our growth businesses exceeded 50% a very important milestone and they grew 9% in 2013.
We're also pleased with the progress we're making with our cost reduction programs as evidenced by our ability to hold margin despite a 1% decline in organic revenue growth and charges of $100 million in the first 9 months of the year.
Turning to 2014 we're confident we will continue to make steady progress this year.
Top line growth will be tempered by headwinds in the global banking and legal markets as well as the fact that we'll be making fewer acquisitions.
That being said we will aggressively pursue growth in those areas where we have strong positions.
And finally we're making good progress with our transformation program and we will have more to share with you during our upcoming Investor Day in March.
Now let me turn it back over to Frank.
Thanks very much Jim and Stephane.
And that concludes our formal remarks.
So operator we'd now like to open the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Well when thinking about the great milestone of sunsetting the 3000 Xtra family and the Bridge sunsetting late last year how much savings should you have in 2014? And how does that play into your margin expectations for the F&amp;R segment in 2014? All right Andrew let me take on that question.
It's Stephane.
I would expect that we will see additional improvement in F&amp;R's margin this year both on a reported basis obviously but also more importantly on an underlying basis.
This being said keep in mind that F&amp;R will still incur additional charges in 2014.
The majority of the $120 million that we mentioned will actually be concentrated in F&amp;R.
So once again their margin or the progress they're making in the margin would be somewhat obfuscated by this charge.
So to try to give you a little bit more color on an underlying basis F&amp;R margin was 24.5% in 2013.
So in order for us to get to the level approaching 30% by 2015 which is as we mentioned earlier an internal target that we've set for ourselves we need to see an improvement of close to 500 basis points over 2 years.
Obviously we plan on giving you more detail on this during the IR Day that we're going to have next month.
Both David Craig and Tim Collier CFO F&amp;R will be there to provide you that detail.
But at a high level I would expect that this 500 basis point margin improvement will likely be more backloaded in 2015 and this is due to a number of reasons Andrew.
The first one is that obviously we will see more impact of the platform shutdowns in 2015 that we would in 2014.
The second point as I mentioned earlier 2014 will still be -- the margin that we're going to report will still be impacted by these charges that we just announced.
And finally given our assumption that net sales will continue to improve I would hope that F&amp;R's revenue growth will be better in '14 and than -- in '15 and '14.
So overall if you were to ask me I would expect that we should see progress towards that internal target that we've set but it would be more backloaded in '15.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And why does it take till 2015 to benefit from the shutdown of Xtra and Bridge? I was making that more as a general comment.
For instance  this year we will shut down a couple more important platform the 2 IDN platforms.
And so you will see the benefit of that really flowing through in '15 really much more visibly than in 2014.
And Andrew this is Frank.
And we -- the savings associated with the Bridge shutdown as well as EMT and HTA I think we've mentioned earlier -- not on this call but previously that we expected savings of about $40 million flowing through from those.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Steep with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess first one for Jim and then actually a clarification for Stephane.
One what's the milestones we should be watching for within F&amp;R and Legal to fuel the organic growth initiatives into 2015 and beyond? And then secondly the clarification for Stephane on the 500 basis point lift you're just talking about in 2015 your third point how much of it is responsible or how much would happen if you neutralized organic revenue growth in the period i.e.
if net sales just stayed flat what type of lift do we end up with? Well thanks Paul and I will tackle that.
I think as always the kind of underlying sales trajectories I think we got to look at.
And what we'll be looking for and trying to manage is that continued improvement in the overall leading indicator which is net sales.
I think next year as well or this year what we'll try to do is to give you a little more color because we'll be managing it carefully about how we're proceeding in strategic segments.
We're entering a pretty important phase here for us.
The Xtra 3000 replacement program was all about replacement and we're working really really hard to convert folks to a better -- existing customers to a better product that we knew would be stickier overall.
As we begin to move throughout '14 and into '15 more to the buy-side more to the investor side investment management side and consolidating the old Thomson ONE products onto the Eikon-Elektron platform I think we'll be more focused on going after new customers.
So grabbing that new ground is going be important for us.
And the progress that we're making by strategic segment will be something we'll be talking about in greater detail in this year and in coming years because we want to make certain that we're driving to the kind of long-range profitable business that we really want to cultivate here.
And so it's all about sales trajectory and sales momentum.
We'll continue to talk about that.
But it's also about making sure we're getting that sales momentum in the right places that are going to power the business for the future.
And we'll be sharing that with you more about that on Investor Day and more about that I think quarter by quarter.
To answer your second question when we provided that internal target last year during Investor Day we were assuming very modest organic growth for F&amp;R over the period of time.
Obviously given the guidance we've just given I don't think it's prudent to accept -- to expect organic growth for F&amp;R this year.
And I think we would expect some -- maybe something very -- too soon to call 2015 but that margin target is not relying on a very large revenue growth rate in 2015.
If anything it will be very modest.
Our next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> On F&amp;R and Eikon could you give us an update on retention? And could you also -- I'm curious on market share if you think that your market share in F&amp;R is holding.
Look I'll take that.
Stephane will have the specific numbers on retention.
What we've seen on retention is that it's up significantly where we have replaced Eikon.
I think it was 500 600 basis points improvement in customer satisfaction scores and we're seeing retention up.
Encouragingly Sara we're seeing it up particularly amongst our largest customers.
And in fact that retention rate moved very nicely for our top 80 banks that we classify as the big global banks.
So that's quite encouraging.
And it shouldn't be surprising given the -- how much better the product is than the previous product.
So we're very encouraged by the retention there.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly you mentioned -- I thought I heard you say that you're expecting Legal margins to be flat to down slightly in 2014.
I want to check to see if that includes any incremental charges.
I'm actually surprised that it wouldn't be down more given the print declines.
Well you've seen the slide I showed a little earlier detailing the reasons for the downward drift in our margins in 2013 and I said it was like really attributable to 3 factors one of which was the acquisition of Practical Law.
On the year-over-year basis that's no longer going to be a factor because we made that acquisition in February of last year.
So I think that in 2014 what you're going to see hopefully is a return to what we've been able to do in prior year where we've been able to offset the negative revenue mix impact that we've had in the business to 2 factors: number one cost-cutting actions; and number two the fact that our growth business are gaining scale and thereby the margins in this business while it's remaining lower than core legal research business the margin of both businesses is also improving.
And that's why we're making that assessment of overall margin to be flat to maybe down slightly.
And Sara I should come back in and I realize I didn't answer the second part of your question there.
So I -- which I very much want to do.
I mentioned strategic sectors that we're going after.
I can tell you this about market share.
The definition of market share depends upon your definitions of market and how things get measured.
And I can tell you that in all the strategic sectors where we're going head-to-head with our key competitors I'm still in a position where I believe that we are no longer losing market share.
And in fact when we go head-to-head with competitors we win more than our fair share these days.
Now if you look at the whole of the financial services market and how some third parties might calculate that I just can't speak to their calculations.
We did the best a considerable amount of businesses over the last 18 months.
And I suspect if you look at the overall numbers as a whole then that would show up that we would have gone backwards in the overall market.
But I can tell you where we go head-to-head with competitors in our key strategic segments we're holding our own and I do not believe we are losing market share.
Our next question comes from the line of Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If you could just from a growth perspective help parse out of sort of what the desktop revenue which you said I guess was 45% how that grew organically versus sort of the non-desktop revenues.
And then just tied to your comment where I guess this year the focus was on news -- or in this coming year the focus will be on new sales versus upgrades the prior year maybe if you could dive into that a little bit more talking about sort of what the news that Eikon business has been thus far and what you expect.
Let me try to address the first part of your question.
At least I can tell you that the revenue decline in our financial desktops this year was in the area -- was in mid-single digit range.
So 5% to 6% decline.
So this is still a very heavy decline which is directly related to the net sales performance we had in the prior 12 months' period.
I would expect that rate of decline over the coming years to hopefully improve as a result of the introduction of Eikon which is obviously a much better product.
And sorry Manny could you repeat your second question? Research Division</strong> Well I mean just related to that I mean the non -- like the feeds business and transactions how did that grow generally? These businesses are still growing.
And I -- so that's why you get to an average organic rate that's better than the 5% 6% as mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just asked on sort of the focus on new sales versus upgrades and just a little more color on how that's performed and your expectations.
Yes I think that we had the whole of sales force focused on getting those Eikon migrations done as quickly -- and upgrades as quickly as we could because we do have a better product -- would result in better customer satisfaction and better retention.
And in fact it has.
And so that was exactly the right thing to do.
This year we've got to focus on new sales.
And we would expect our gross sales performance to pick up and we would expect our retention rates to hold.
Also we have some really incredibly compelling new products both now in the market and in the pipeline for later this year right? So as we -- Eikon 4.0 is now out and we think that's going to be a very compelling product and it's going to attract new customers.
And you'll remember last year our success rate was after every 5 Eikons that we upgraded we got 1 add-on sale.
Now we can focus on those add-on sales.
We're bringing out some strong new product as well; consolidating the Thomson ONE various products onto the Eikon-Elektron platform.
And we think that will be attractive investment management and to the buy-side in general.
So we're going to target those areas for market share gains and we're encouraged by that.
And we've got some strong plans and I don't want to telegraph them too much for significant improvements in the FX market as well throughout the year.
So I think we've got a good product pipeline good plans and a sales force that's going after new sales this year.
So we would hope to see an increase in both the pickup in our gross sales and better retention from the Eikon product that we have.
Next we'll go to the line of William Bird representing FBR.
Research Division</strong> Jim I was wondering if you could talk about the expected run rate savings from some of the 2014 platform sunsetting.
Stephane you might be better positioned to answer that.
Yes Bill I'm not sure we want to speak specifically about one product shutdown versus the other.
I mean we've given you like an overall margin objective.
And obviously that margin objective assume that we achieve significant run rate savings from the platform shutdowns.
We're going to more details about that in -- during the meeting on -- in March.
But I think what you should focus on is obviously the improving -- continuing improvement in the margin for F&amp;R and that improvement in margin happening despite the fact that they're still very much in a position of generating negative organic revenue growth right now at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then separately I guess as you migrate customers from multiple products to Eikon are you able to preserve pricing? How are you managing kind of the price transition? I mean we're going to do that very strategically Bill.
And that will be tricky.
We've done a lot of work on that over last year and understanding the most effective combinations and pricing strategy.
And I hope you can appreciate that I don't want to telegraph that in great detail at this point.
I think there will be places where we will make short-term sacrifices in term -- in pricing in order to penetrate key strategic markets and I think there are other places where a more effective bundling strategy per se could yield in fact higher long-term total uptake.
So I think there are risks and opportunities in a move like this.
Obviously we think the opportunities outweigh the risks or we wouldn't be doing it.
And again I just don't want to telegraph exactly what we're going to do there because of the competitive nature of what those pricing decisions mean.
Research Division</strong> And Stephane is there any pension contribution in your 2014 free cash flow guidance? Oh that's a good question Bill.
We always have ongoing normal pension contribution that we do to our plans around the world.
I would say in '13 those were around $60 million or $70 million and I would expect the same run rate going forward.
We do not expect the need to make a large onetime contribution such as the one we did last year.
And for reference the last time we had to make this extraordinary pension contribution was almost 10 years ago in 2002 2003.
So with the pension contribution we've made in the fourth quarter our overfunded status now is about 95% and that's why we do not expect the need to make additional pension contribution of a large scale like the one we did last year.
Our next question is from the line of Toni Kaplan representing Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the competitive environment in core legal research? And related I guess in print is there increased aggressiveness in pricing by competitors? I -- yes the answer is no.
I don't think there's increased competitiveness.
I think it's that the market remains dynamic as it has been.
I think there's not been a real significant change in any way in the competitive dynamic there.
We have seen obviously pricing pressures from obviously the Lexis in the U.S.
market but that's primarily on the electronic side.
In the print side we're just such a dominant player particularly in the U.S that it's not necessarily around competitive price.
It's around paying the price for both print and online and a shift in customers who prefer to consume their information online and are buying -- just buying less books overall.
We have a significantly larger print business than anyone else particularly in the U.S.
so that's why it impacts us to a greater degree.
But there's no real change in the competitive dynamics and no price pressure contributing on the print side.
It's just the general preference for online.
And we're in a position really in the United States where we have the luxury of almost charging twice for things because the vast -- almost virtually all of the information that is contained in our print publications is now online as well.
So it's a supplemental sale.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then in Latin America there's not too much you can do about the overall market.
But in terms of just positioning for the market I know you have the -- at least one initiative in place that had costs [indiscernible].
But anything else in place Jim? Listen we're very very positive and I'm very bullish on Latin America overall.
And what you see in terms of the top line numbers there are very deliberate commercial decisions that we've made to tighten commercial policy and forgo short term for what we believe is a very attractive long term.
We think there's great opportunity for us to grow particularly in our electronic products particularly in our software solutions particularly in our global tax and workflow solutions but we want to move aggressively.
We think it's a far more profitable sustainable and predictable model if we can move Latin America where we sell primarily through third-party bookstores into more of a subscription -- or a subscription-nature electronic arrangement.
And we're moving aggressively to both put content online in our online services and to deploy what we think is killer eReader technology to move those books onto tablets as well.
So we're -- this is a deliberate decision there to forgo kind of status quo short-term revenue in order to migrate that market to what we think is a more attractive model.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Jim just to be clear the weaker fourth quarter net sales in F&amp;R you attribute it completely to market weakness not any flavor of competitive dynamic correct? Yes.
And then look that's exactly right.
And it is also the -- there are 2 things particularly in the -- Europe was generally softer.
And when I say emerging markets there was the deliberate steps we took in legal and regulatory in Latin America okay? That was part of it.
And then the other stuff in emerging markets was Asia x Japan.
Japan was actually pretty strong for us.
And when I think about emerging markets we got to get with 2 things right? Or 3 things actually.
One when you think about big global banks pulling back from emerging markets we serve those big global banks.
And so their pullbacks affected their contracts with us.
Also with some of the product shutdowns the Bridge Network shutdown the migration off of Xtra 3000 onto Eikon we suffered some losses in the long tail of small customers across Asia who didn't make the migration to the new products with us.
And then I think just generally as a lot of people reported in Q4 there was just a general softening in what had been very hot fast-growing markets that also flowed through.
But yes I contribute all of that to just surprising market weakness in Q4.
And I would only add to that -- well again we don't give quarter-by-quarter guidance or anything.
It's too soon to talk about a whole quarter but we're encouraged with the way the year has started after that downtick.
And again in our business model particularly in the Financial business Q4 tends to be the place at which the big seismic changes are concentrated.
It's always that tough year.
It's always that tough period in which banks kind of reset the foundation for the next year.
And it was just -- it was a tougher-than-expected period outside.
Research Division</strong> Also can I ask 2 follow-ups then? One should we expect then that the first quarter net sales could be positive? And then two specifically in the fourth quarter was the U.S.
positive offset by weakness elsewhere? Or was the U.S.
also negative? The U.S.
was stronger but was not positive.
But it was strong -- stronger than the other regions.
And for the first quarter as I've said many times I expect to see an improved net sales position over the prior year in the quarter and we expect to see that trend continue throughout the year.
I don't want to get into the place of predicting quarter-by-quarter where we're going to pop above the positive or pop down to negative because I wouldn't overread that.
To me what's important is the trajectory.
Just like when I look at the second half I don't -- one quarter doesn't a trend make.
And I don't look at the fourth quarter as being a break in the momentum inside the business or a break in the momentum with our customers.
I'd rather look at the whole of the second half being better than the whole of the second half last year.
And I'm relying upon all the conversations I've had with customers throughout that fourth quarter although it was tougher and certainly as we go into this year.
So what we're looking for is an improvement in the trend but I don't want to get into living and dying on whether or not we pop into -- pop slightly into positive or slightly into negative particularly because 1 or 2 big swings -- 1 or 2 big accounts can make that difference.
And we have a question from the line of Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question is I understand you don't want to telegraph exactly what the pricing strategy is in the transition to Eikon but to better understand how things are changing versus prior comments could you comment on whether or not you're still seeing 2% to 3% increases across the entire business? Or is it now something less than that on a blended basis? I would expect it would be less than that on a blended basis for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the restructuring charges just understanding what drove you to increase the charges and then not necessarily make any change to the run rate of $300 million by 2015.
I'm trying to understand kind of what inning you're in in terms of reevaluating opportunities.
And I mean I guess I'm really just trying to understand are you reinvesting some of that savings which is why you didn't take the number up? Is it that you're offsetting cost increases somewhere else? Or it's some other factor that we're not thinking of? Sure Andre.
I think the main driver of the charge increasing a little bit from the earlier guidance was the fact that we included what we refer in accounting terms to onerous leases which means essentially we -- with the reduction in headcount we need less space.
And as we vacate floors or buildings we essentially had to write down the remaining lease obligations we had on these spaces.
So I believe that was the main driver.
We really focused more on the severance expense in the earlier indication that we had.
And again the change is not really very significant but I think that's the biggest part of it.
And in terms of your second question why we didn't increase the run rate it's about the same maybe a little higher.
But as you said we obviously -- we can't expect to see the full run rate flowing through an improvement in margins when you have still low revenue growth and when we still have to make investments in the business as you pointed out.
And we very much intend to continue to make investments in the business.
Our next question is from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Stephane just going back to Slide 37 on the guidance.
Just I mean this perhaps is an obvious point but the adjusted EBITDA margin guidance of 26% to 27% includes the $120 million of anticipated additional charges.
So essentially about 1% of revenues.
Ergo the adjusted adjusted margin would be up about 100 basis points from the adjusted x charge margin in 2013.
Is that a fair way to look at it? It's a very fair way.
It's a good idea.
We may introduce the adjusted adjusted margin.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean it seems -- so essentially flat revenue.
Exactly.
Exactly right.
Your analysis is exactly right Doug.
And we have a question from Drew McReynolds with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> And maybe Jim just for you kind of big picture here.
As you look over I guess 2015 if I can push you a little bit here what kind of visibility do you have on a return to positive organic revenue growth in F&amp;R? And specifically like what are the kind of key deltas or assumptions that would get you there? Whether it's respect to a recovery in Europe with emerging markets maybe stronger growth in FX it -- does it require you to get to positive organic revenue growth in desktop? Maybe all of the above or part of the above? If you could just kind of flush that out for us.
I think we got to continue the trajectory overall in net sales right? And we got to get back at least to flat net sales overall so that some of the price can stick right? And that can get -- so we don't have get into positive territory for the whole year but we got to get -- we got to continue to see that trajectory improve on net sales overall.
And I think -- does it mean you have to get positive in desktops? No not necessarily overall but it means we have to be making progress we need to make more progress on the buy-side.
It means we have to see our feeds business continue to grow as it's growing now.
We have to be strong in our Trading and Marketplaces -- in our Marketplaces businesses as well.
And we have to continue to win in the FX market.
So I think overall it's that blend that will get us there.
I don't think there's one key area that's going to offset the other.
We've we got to continue to make improvement overall in net sales because that gets us back to the place where we can have that revenue growth.
And in terms of visibility look I like the sales pipelines that we have set up.
I can tell you that the sales force loves the new products one that -- the ones that they have in their hands today and are selling and they're very excited about the ones that are to come throughout the year with some significant launches throughout the year.
So I like our chances there but it's hand-to-hand combat in a very volatile market and absolute visibility into where we'll be in January of 2015 is difficult right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and I appreciate that.
And then maybe just one follow-up for you Stephane.
I think on the buyback you've been moving quite nicely through the kind of $1 billion target by the end of 2014 and it looks like you're ahead.
If we get to May and you've kind of gone through the $1 billion seems to be flexibility in the balance sheet to kind of continue to buy back as you renew the NCIB.
Can you just give us your updated thoughts there? Sure.
You're exactly right.
We've been moving as promised essentially with space on the buyback program.
We've essentially completed $300 million of the program by -- in the fourth quarter.
I would expect a good pace to continue and then we reevaluate the program with the board when we complete this $1 billion.
But as we said our goal when we set that target was not just to set a high number and say we -- it's a new number.
We can't tell you what we're going to do under the program.
Of course it's very much to execute on that program and complete the $1 billion.
So we'll definitely -- we should definitely be able to do that before the end of the year and maybe even a little bit sooner.
Our final question today then will come from the line of Matt Walker with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I'll be quick.
A quick question I guess for either Jim or Stephane is the net sales in Financial do you expect the net sales to be positive for -- clearly it's very difficult to say in the short term but do you expect the net sales to be positive for the full year '14? And can you also comment on have you had to give -- you clearly had a big drive for installations to get all the 3000 Xtra people over by the end of the year or very close to end of the year.
Have you had to give any kind of discounts or incentives or have something like that in order to achieve the closing out of the 3000? Well for -- I'll answer the second question first and the -- no we didn't.
In fact we migrated folks at the exact terms that they had for Reuters Xtra 3000.
And we used it as an opportunity to upgrade products at the same price [ph].
As far as overall net sales being positive or negative for the year we're not going to give a prediction on that at this time.
We're going to continue to see the trajectory improve and we are confident we'll be able to keep the trajectory improving.
As I said earlier whether it pops in for 1 2 or 3 quarters into that positive territory it's just too tough to say right now.
We'll let you know as the year progresses if we get any greater visibility into that.
Perfect.
So that'll conclude our call.
Let me just mention this as Jim had during his presentation that we will be hosting an Investor Day in Toronto on March 20.
You can expect more information coming from us over the course of the next few days.
On that feel free to contact my office if you have any questions.
And with that that will conclude our fourth quarter call.
So thanks very much for joining us.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 a.m.
this morning and running through February 19 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 316118.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.