Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later on you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please note today’s call is being recorded.
I’ll be standing by if you should need any assistance and it’s now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Gail Peck.
Thank you Beth.
Good morning from Dallas Texas.
Welcome to Trinity Industries First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
I am Gail Peck Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups; and Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products and Inland Barge Groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Antonio Carrillo our Vice President and Group President of the Energy Equipment Group; and Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer are also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased with our performance during the first quarter.
We’re off to a good start.
We have a significant amount of positive momentum occurring in many of the markets served by our businesses.
The improvement in our earnings during the first quarter is an outcome of the economic recovery along with the ability of our businesses to generate operating leverage resulting from improving production levels and continuity.
Overall the trend lines remain positive for most of our businesses.
Several of our businesses were successful during the first quarter in obtaining orders that provide consistency in their production lines.
This normally leads to opportunities for operating leverage.
The demand for railcars in North America was very robust during the first quarter.
We were pleased to report that our rail businesses received record quarterly orders for new railcars in the first quarter.
Among them was a five-year supply agreement with GATX Corporation for 12 500 railcars.
This order helps provide production consistency in our railcar manufacturing businesses during the next five years.
Our rail businesses are responding well to the increase in railcar demand.
We’re a very flexible company and will continue to adjust as the business climate shifts and demand fluctuates for our products and services.
Our railcar leasing business has seen strong demand for railcars.
During robust demand periods we are able to obtain better lease rates for extended lease terms.
This helps solidify a solid base of leasing revenues for the future.
Our barge business has obtained orders to fill their production openings for the majority of 2011.
One of our barge manufacturing facilities is currently confronted with river flooding conditions.
Bill will provide more insight during his comments.
During the first quarter our structural wind towers business stabilized production schedules at lower levels than in the past.
This industry has continued to work through several fundamental issues that are affecting short-term demand for wind towers.
Our wind towers business has a backlog of orders that total approximately $1 billion.
Our highway products businesses continue to build momentum as they enter the construction season.
Funding for federal highway programs appears to be in place through the balance of the peak construction period.
We expect levels of uncertainty to surface as our political leaders work through federal spending budgets.
We have a good demand for highway products at this time.
We’re prepared to respond should demand in this industry shift.
Our overall performance reflects the talents and hard work of our people the diversification of our businesses our emphasis on operational excellence and the strength of our market leadership positions.
We are fortunate to have a highly seasoned group of employees who are extremely capable.
I will now turn it over to Steve Menzies for his comments.
Thank you Tim.
Good morning.
First quarter operating results for the Rail Group and Leasing Group reflect the improving economic and rail transportation trends.
Our Leasing Group saw lease fleet utilization remain stable at 99.2% with lease rate and renewal trends improving.
Our Rail Group posted an increase in operating profit while shipping approximately 2 240 new railcars during the quarter.
Our railcar order backlog grew to its highest levels since the third quarter of 2008 allowing us to plan a higher level of production for 2011.
We are seeing strong demand for railcars that transport chemicals minerals and agricultural products.
The intermodal and auto rack markets are improving as well.
Demand for railcars that serve the lumber paper and coal industries continues to be weak.
Lease renewals and lease rates appear to have stabilized and continue to show improvements in key markets.
Railcar cycle times are increasing as average train speeds decrease and the overhang of idle railcars continues to decline for some railcar types in tight supply.
During the first quarter the North American railcar manufacturing industry received orders to build approximately 36 900 new railcars raising the industry backlog to more than 51 900 railcars.
Industry orders during the fourth quarter 2010 and first quarter 2011 were heavily weighted towards strategic purchases of railcars by railroads and TTX.
Several lessors returned to the new railcar marketplace making large strategic purchases while other smaller lessors placed orders for railcars serving discrete markets.
A few major railcar buyers may have accelerated some 2012 purchases to take advantage of the tax provisions favoring capital equipment investment in 2011.
However it is difficult to determine the precise impact of these tax provisions in respect to pulling forward orders that might otherwise been placed in 2012.
Our current order inquiries reflect additional strategic purchases being considered by railroads and a few industrial shippers.
We are also seeing strong demand drivers related to railcars serving the oil and gas industries.
The agricultural fertilizer and chemical markets are also expanding.
Most of these new build opportunities will be for 2012 delivery as remaining available production capacity for 2011 is limited.
We were successful in securing orders during the first quarter that fit very well with our production plans.
These orders should position us to obtain increased operating leverage.
We did not aggressively pursue orders for railcars serving markets with weak pricing or orders that would require us to open new production facilities.
Instead we are focused on orders that optimize production at our facilities currently in operation minimize line changeovers and reflect stronger pricing levels.
While we expect operating margins to expand as we increase production we face some uncertainty as to the timing of efficiency improvements.
We have the flexibility to bring on additional railcar production should market conditions support sustainable demand and pricing levels result in commensurate returns.
TrinityRail received orders for approximately 18 770 new railcars during the first quarter.
Our first quarter orders were from industrial shippers railroads and third-party lessors.
TrinityRail’s backlog was approximately 22 490 railcars at the end of the first quarter up 277% from the end of the fourth quarter.
Approximately 14% of the units in our railcar production backlog are for customers of our leasing business.
Based upon orders received in the first quarter and current inquiry levels we project a significant increase in railcar production in the second quarter of 2011 and a further increase in the second half of 2011.
For the year we project delivery of between 12 500 and 13 500 new railcars.
As a point of comparison we delivered 4 750 railcars in 2010 and slightly more than 9 100 railcars in 2009.
As railcar builders have rapidly increased production to meet the influx of orders component supplies had to keep pace.
Historically it has not been unusual for component shortages to occur when there is a sharp increase in railcar demand.
TrinityRail has worked closely with component producers to ensure adequate supply to support our production plans and enable us to meet our customers’ 2011 delivery requirements.
Thus far we have not experienced any component shortages or delivery delays.
We added 960 new railcars to our lease portfolio during the first quarter bringing our wholly-owned lease fleet to more than 53 060 railcars a 5.4% increase compared to the first quarter 2010.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the first quarter 2011 was 99.2%.
Our average remaining lease term remained at 3.5 years.
The average age of the fleet is 6.2 years.
The TRIP lease fleet totals 14 600 railcars operating at 99.8% utilization.
As a reminder Trinity owns 57% of TRIP and manages the portfolio.
Trinity’s total lease portfolio is now more than 67 600 railcars.
Lease renewal trends are returning to more historic norms and renewal lease rates on average increased modestly during the first quarter.
In the near term we will seek longer lease terms as we now have the opportunity to re-price assets last priced during the market downturn.
Rising new car prices are helping to raise the ceiling on lease rates for existing railcars thus helping to support lease renewal trends.
As a result of higher lease rates rising demand and high fleet utilization rates we see the potential to improve our lease fleet’s financial performance.
In summary we have obtained a solid order backlog that allows us to realize the operating leverage associated with railcar production continuity.
I am confident that our operations team will successfully meet the challenges of rapidly increasing railcar production to meet our customer commitments this year.
Our lease portfolio with its high fleet utilization is positioned to raise lease rates and provide a greater return.
As we look ahead to 2012 we see evidence of sustainable demand for railcars consistent with moderate economic expansion.
I will now turn it over to Bill McWhirter.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Our Construction Products Group had a nice first quarter.
The group produced a profit of $8.3 million for the quarter as compared to $2.7 million a year ago.
These results continue to be driven by the performance of our highway products business.
On April 1st we completed a transaction with Texas Industries that resulted in the divestiture of our Austin and Central Texas concrete assets in exchange for three aggregate operations.
This transaction is indicative of our desire to grow our aggregates and highway products business line while reducing our exposure to metropolitan concrete markets.
We are anticipating improved profitability despite a $30 million annual decrease in revenues as a result of this transaction.
Moving to the Inland Barge Group.
During the first quarter we received new barge orders totaling $90 million bringing our backlog to $461 million as compared to $361 million a year ago.
Most of the orders we received continue to be prompted by the need to replace aging equipment.
The barge market remains highly competitive.
As a result there is a little pricing leverage at this time although we have a strong backlog that primarily consists of orders that were priced during the economic slowdown.
As a result we expect that further margin improvements will be challenging.
With regard to the unfortunate flooding of the Mississippi River Trinity has temporarily closed its hopper barge manufacturing plant in Missouri.
We expect the plan to be operational again in approximately 4 to 5 weeks.
At this time we have no other barge plants that are affected by the flood.
I will now turn the presentation back to James who will provide more financial color on this event.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
My comments relate primarily to the first quarter of 2011.
We will file our Form 10-Q later today.
For the first quarter of 2011 Trinity reported earnings of $0.30 per common diluted share.
This compares to earnings of $0.02 per common diluted share in the first quarter of 2010 which included $0.04 per common diluted share of transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Quixote Corporation.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2011 were $644 million compared to $454 million in the same quarter last year.
Trinity’s EBITDA during the first quarter was $134 million compared to $99 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The reconciliation of EBITDA was provided in the press release yesterday.
The Rail Group reported revenues in the first quarter of $220 million a 7% increase over revenues reported in the fourth quarter of 2010 on a comparable level of railcar deliveries.
Operating profit for the Rail Group during the first quarter was $9.3 million resulting in a margin of 4.2%.
Revenue and earnings eliminations during the first quarter due to sales of railcars to our lease fleet totaled $85 million and $0.06 per diluted share respectively.
The railcar order backlog which includes the recently announced five-year order from GATX for 12 500 railcars grew to approximately $1.8 billion as of March 31 2011 compared to approximately $458 million as of December 31 2010.
Within this backlog orders dedicated to our lease fleet decreased to approximately $272 million as of March 31 2011 compared to approximately $111 million as of December 31 2010.
Our Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group reported revenues in the first quarter of $130 million which included $10 million of revenues resulting from the sale of railcars from the lease fleet.
Operating profit totaled $54.7 million in the first quarter which included $1.1 million of profit from sales of railcars from the fleet.
The Inland Barge Group generated first quarter revenues of $138 million and operating profit of $21.7 million resulting in a margin of 15.7%.
During the first quarter our barge business received orders totaling approximately $90 million.
The order backlog for this group as of March 31 2011 was $461 million.
Revenues for our Construction Products Group were $134 million in the first quarter compared to $118 million a year ago.
This group reported operating profit of $8.3 million compared to $2.7 million in the same period a year ago.
During the first quarter the Energy Equipment Group’s revenues were $119 million including $67 million from the wind towers business.
Operating profit for the group was $10.5 million resulting in an operating margin of 8.8%.
The backlog for the wind towers business as of March 31 2011 was approximately $1 billion.
At March 31st we had unrestricted cash and short-term marketable securities of $377 million.
When combined with the funding available through our corporate revolver and Trinity’s leasing warehouse facility our liquidity position totaled more than $1.1 billion at the end of the first quarter.
We continue to make progress towards the refinancing of the TRIP warehouse loan.
The TRIP portfolio continues to perform well and is an important component of our railcar leasing business.
I will now discuss our forward-looking guidance.
We expect earnings per share for the company to be between $0.35 and $0.40 in the second quarter of 2011 and between $1.30 and $1.50 for the full year 2011.
The impact of the large number of railcar orders that we received in the first quarter is included in our annual guidance and is concentrated in the back half of the year.
Deliveries under the GATX supply agreement for 12 500 railcars are expected to commence midyear and will be spread evenly over the five-year contract.
Where we fall within the range of the $1.30 to $1.50 of earnings will depend on a number of factors including: the level of operating leverage we achieve as our rail businesses ramp up railcar production in response to increased demand; the impacts that weather conditions have on our construction products business and the impact of the flood conditions at our Missouri barge facility.
We will provide updates to our guidance during our quarterly calls as we develop more clarity.
We anticipate that the Rail Group will report revenues of between $250 million and $275 million with an operating margin of between 3% and 5% for the second quarter of 2011 as we continue to ramp up production.
Steve mentioned this ramp-up phase in his comments.
During the second quarter we expect deliveries of railcars to our leasing company will result in a second quarter elimination of approximately $75 million in consolidated revenues and between $0.04 and $0.05 per diluted share.
For the full year we expect to deliver railcars to our lease fleet with the value of approximately $300 million to $320 million.
Inland Barge revenues are expected to be between $130 million and $140 million in the second quarter with an operating margin in the range of 11% to 13% including the assumption of approximately $6 million in negative operating profit impact this quarter from the flood conditions that Bill mentioned.
Revenues for the Energy Equipment Group are expected to be approximately $120 million to $130 million in the second quarter with margins of between 5% and 7%.
We are prepared to take advantage of increased demand for our businesses’ products.
We remain focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet with significant liquidity that will position us to capitalize on organic and acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Go ahead please.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just going back to the Rail Group and the margins specifically I know obviously production ramp-up costs are keeping a lid on that in the second quarter.
How should we be thinking about that towards the back half of the year as production levels are firming up?  James do you want to take that one?  Sure.
Allison as you know we have a process we go through each month to forecast the results for the remainder of the year.
We just updated that last week and the current view reflects that process.
We’re having good demand for our products but where we fall in the range is going to depend on the efficiencies as we’ve talked about.
As Steve mentioned we’re going to have a significant ramp-up over the next couple of quarters and we’ll be able to provide that detail as we go forward.
Okay.
And I guess with this production level I think last we talked you had about three out of ten of your facilities online and I know you guys are trying to sort of lengthen those production lines.
Would you need to open more facilities to satisfy these increased orders as of today or are we comfortable with those three and just filling those production lines specifically?  Steve you want to handle that?  Yeah sure Allison the orders and the current demand levels we think we’re properly positioned with the facilities that we have open.
We do have the flexibility to open additional production facilities as we continue to see demand grow.
But right now we think we’re positioned well.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Go ahead please.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
How much of your barge production does that Missouri plant represent and do you expect that barge will be a lot will be less profitable in the back half because of these issues?  Bill?  Yeah.
The Missouri plant is one of our largest plants.
And I won’t go into detail of how much of the production but it is a significant part of the dry hopper barge production.
I think in the back half of the year as we said we’ll 4 to 5 weeks we should be up and going we’ll have a little bit of learning curve coming back on but shouldn’t see much interruption in the back half of the year.
Our team has done a really good job of getting prepared for this flood so we got the equipment out that we need to get out and we’ll get it back in as soon as possible.
Right.
So this is should just be a one-quarter impact and you’ve got plenty of backlog for the back half of the year so no ill effects going forward from that.
And just returning to the rail question I understand it’s tough to call the timing of how you get those production inefficiencies but you guys have been doing this for a long time with barring any really unusual situation is it reasonable to think that margins and operating leverage won’t be a good bit better in the back half for the Rail Group given the size of the production ramp you’re talking about?  Steve you want to take that one?  Well sure Steve.
Clearly our back half is expected to be stronger than our first half and we’d love to give you a crystal look at margin expansion.
I think certainly beyond just seeing operating efficiencies car types and mix and also the profitability of earlier orders taken versus where we’re seeing margins now on current pricing all has a direct impact on how margins will end up in the third and fourth quarters for us.
But again we’re optimistic about improving efficiencies and seeing the operating leverage in our business.
Sure.
And I think you’ve been seeing sequential improvements in your lease rates and I know you’re adding some cars to the fleet this year.
Are you seeing positive year-over-year comps in some of the lease rates? And can you talk about pricing for the cars that you’re putting in this year relative to contracts that are rolling over?  Sure Steve.
I guess the thing to keep in mind and don’t mean to dodge the question with the answer of mix but what cars we have rolling off leases and what markets obviously impacts the strength of renewal rates.
We are seeing a trend with a higher new car prices being able to raise the ceiling for existing lease rates.
So that’s contributing to a positive trend in renewal rates as well.
Overall strong demand and high fleet utilization should allow us to continue to improve the profitability of our existing fleet.
Sure.
And it’s fair to say that most of the revenue and operating profit in the lease fleet is relatively stable anyway right?  Yes it is.
So just as I think about the prospect for what will probably be better operating leverage in the back half for rail by a good bit barge is not going to be impacted by these near-term effects in the back half.
Lease is probably flat to up.
Should I think about your guidance of implied back half being relatively even with the first half is probably being pretty conservative?  James?  Really Steve I think as we’ve pointed out there is a wide range in the guidance we provided.
We’re still early in the economic recovery and ramping up our plant.
So I think we’d simply say as we did earlier that’s where our current forecast shows where we are.
We did give a pretty good range for the back half of the year.
And so how we perform as we ramp up and how things like the weather the flood recovery those type things impact those earnings are going to be where we fall in the range.
All right.
Thanks.
I’ll get back in line.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Bodnar with Longbow Research.
Go ahead please.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow up I know you said you were working on TRIP refinancing.
I mean any kind of further details you can give us on that I mean at this point or are you just still early in the process?  James?  Yeah.
We’re still in the process Paul as you know we have some midyear amortization that begins on TRIP.
We are making good progress in working with our equity and debt partners on that.
But there is no more further details we can provide at this time until we have something to talk about.
I don’t know if you could tell me I missed I mean is the bank or is there any kind of concern in terms of lenders that just it’s obviously a little more levered than your regular lease fleet.
I mean is that something they’re going to let you maintain that level of leverage or have they kind of given you any indications one way or the other?  Yeah.
I don’t think we can get into detail on leverage or anything.
The capital markets are open for us.
We did a nice financing last year of course.
But again I don’t think we want to get into detail yet on negotiations or what terms might look like until we have something further resolved that we can talk about publicly.
Okay thanks.
And then just in terms of the pace of inquiries I mean obviously the first quarter was pretty strong for you guys in terms of order activity even excluding the large order the 12 500 cars.
Has that maintained itself or has it subsided at all or kind of where do we stand right now?  Steve you want to take that?  Well I think generally we are seeing continued strength in orders both for new cars and existing equipment although whether or not the industry is going to have the same order level that it had in the first quarter given several very large strategic purchases I think that might be unlikely.
But we still see good strength in our inquiries and consistent with the fundamentals in the rail transportation market and fundamentals in our economy.
So if we kind of remove these big orders it still looks like we’re staying the same --?  I would say that trend would be consistent yet.
And then also just a little more specific on that.
I mean in the first quarter did you guys have anything on the coal car side or what are you seeing in that market right now in terms of orders?  I think Paul even in my comments I see continued weakness in that marketplace.
We are seeing some export of coal.
The low natural gas price is competing as a feedstock for energy for electricity production.
So we continue to see that market as oversupplied with railcars and demand not catching up as quickly.
Okay.
So you haven’t seen much action on that side for you guys?  No.
And then also I know you guys have usually one of your larger barge customers places an annual order has that happened yet this year or where are you at in that process?  Bill?  Yeah.
The order for 2012 has not occurred yet.
It typically occurs some time in the second to third quarter.
But it’s not in the backlog as of now.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Go ahead please.
Hey guys.
Good morning to everyone.
Steve did I hear you give an actual second quarter production number for the Rail Group? I certainly heard the full year number.
No Tom I did not give a specific number for the second quarter.
Can you do that?  I think James did give expected revenues of for the Rail Group between $250 million and $275 million during the second quarter of 2011.
Okay.
I just wasn’t sure given the difference in car price types that exists I was hoping for a little bit more there but that’s fine.
Let me go back to the TRIP situation is it possible that you may end up putting more equity in the business and/or be considering buying out – or buying additional stake as you’ve taken your ownership in the company up a couple times?  Yeah Tom as we’ve talked about long the way and earlier we’re still working through the process.
We’ve not talked about any options yet publicly about what we may do with that.
It’s an important portfolio to us but we’re still working through what that refinancing looks like.
Okay.
I assume the 10-Q is going to have some details this afternoon on your latest thoughts.
Well the 10-Q will give the update as to where we are right now but it’s really basically what I’ve said that we continue to make progress and we’re working through that as we go forward.
Okay.
And then Steve back at TRIP did I hear you say 14 600? It’s been a little over 14 700 cars in the lease fleet there but I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
Yes you did hear me correctly and we had a minor small car sale during the quarter out of that portfolio which brought the total down.
Okay.
Can you go back to the order discussions I know this has been asked a little bit but I want to just talk about obviously there has been the accelerated depreciation opportunity.
How much of that is still in the mindset of potential buyers as we look forward or did everyone that was motivated by that show up in the 36 000 orders and then the rest of the orders from here on out are more normal economic conditions not driven by tax considerations?  Yeah.
I mean I don’t think anyone bought railcars purely based upon the tax issues.
I think they were contributing factors as to the timing of some of those orders and giving people impetus to perhaps take some of their 2012 purchases and put them into 2011.
Again to precisely tell you exactly how much of the orders in the quarter were related to tax provisions it’s really really hard to do.
If there are others waiting for order slots to take advantage of 2011 there’s a good chance they’re going to be disappointed because I also mentioned that I would say across the industry remaining production slots in 2011 are very very few.
So the impetus for 100% bonus depreciation in 2011 you probably already have your orders in and you’re under a different tax scenario in 2012 when you take delivery of your cars.
And that 2012 there’s still a 50% acceleration right?  That’s my understanding yes.
So would you say I know you said barge is essentially sold out for ‘11 would you describe rail – the Rail Group as being sold out for 2011 at this disjuncture?  Well this is Steve again Tom.
We’re very close to being in that position.
As you know we have flexibility in our production footprint to bring on more capacity but one of the constraints in getting 2011 delivery is the availability of components to support increased production.
So while right now we think we’re in good shape on our component supply it would be difficult to have a meaningful increase in production in 2011 and still get the components to support that increase.
And then lastly I understand that what I call functional capacity fill.
But have you given some thought to ‘012 yet where production might go next year from let’s say 13 000 this year? Could we be looking at 20 000 or is it just too early to say?  I really think it’s too early to say Tom at this point in time.
We’re starting to see inquiries now and receive orders that are beginning to give us some visibility into 2012 but it’s clearly too early to really tell you what the entire year would look like.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from Paul Bodnar	with Longbow Research.
Go ahead please.
Yeah just real quick and I think you had said this in your prepared remarks I maybe didn’t write it down right.
What would in terms of the sales from the fleet was it – did you say $10 million or was that sales from TILC or from TRIP?  James?  Yeah it was $10 million and the sales were primarily from TRIP.
And you’ll see that detail in the 10-Q.
It was from TRIP so that and then also the operating profit elimination there the $1.1 million I think it was would be from TRIP as well?  Yes.
Yes okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
I would like to turn back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
That concludes today’s conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1 o’clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on Thursday May 5 2011.
The access number is 402-220-0121.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before we get started let remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of the future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Please note today’s call is being recorded.
And now I would like to turn it over to Gail Peck.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Beth.
Good morning from Dallas Texas.
Welcome to the Trinity industries second quarter 2011 results conference call.
I am Gail Peck Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you’ll hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups Antonio Carrillo Senior Vice President and Group President of the Energy Equipment Group and Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products and Inland Barge Group.
Following their comments of James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
Our business has continued to confront a variety of scenarios.
We anticipate that each quarter will have its own unique challenges and opportunities.
I am very pleased with the recent debt refinancing and our railcar leasing business.
We were successful in obtaining long-term financing for a trip holdings are majority owned railcar leasing subsidiary.
James will provide more permission about this transaction during his comments.
Demand for rail cars in North America remained strong during the second quarter.
I am pleased that our railcar business significantly increased its’ order backlog during the second quarter.
Our railcar manufacturing facilities are ramping up production according to the railcar delivery schedules we described in our first-quarter conference call.
Our railcar leasing business is continuing to see strong demand for rail cars.
During high demand periods this business is able to obtain better lease rates and extended lease terms.
Our barge business increased its order backlog during this quarter.
Our barge facility in Missouri that was damaged by severe flooding in May is now well underway towards full recovery.
I’m very pleased by the way our personnel responded to the challenges associated with the flood.
Our structural wind towers business has been in the process of switching its production lines to accommodate a change in product mix towards larger wind towers.
We are experiencing additional costs associated with this transition.
As the wind energy continues to evolve we expect our customers will enhance their designs to obtain more efficient models.
We view our flexibility in our other core competencies as differentiators which reinforce our position as market leader for our wind tower customers.
Our highway products businesses continue – are continuing to build momentum as they normally do during the construction season.
We expect levels of uncertainty to surface as our political leaders work with federal highway spending legislation.
Our businesses that rely on highway funding our prepared to respond to shifts in funding for their products.
In summary we are very flexible company and we will continue to adjust the business – as the business climate shifts and demand fluctuates for our products and services.
Our overall performance reflects the talents and hard work of our people the diversification of our businesses our emphasis on operational excellence and the strength of our market leadership positions.
We are fortunate to have a highly seasoned group of employees who are extremely capable.
I will now turn it over to Steve Menzies for his comments.
Thank you Tim good morning.
Second quarter operating results for the Rail Group and Leasing Group reflect increased railcar production and improved operating performance amidst strong railcar demand.
Our Rail Group posted a 66% increase in operating profit while shipping approximately 39% more new railcars during the second quarter compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Our railcar order backlog increased to its highest level since the second quarter of 2008.
Our Leasing Group experienced a 21% increase in operating profit compared to the second quarter 2010 due to increased utilization lower fleet maintenance expenses and profit from lease fleet sales.
These rates and renewal trends continue to strengthen while our lease fleet continues to grow.
Railcar demand during the past several quarters and current order inquiries have been strong.
Railcars serving shale oil production and natural gas fracing expansion are in high demand as our railcars are serving the chemical and petrochemical industries.
These industries are benefiting from abundant low-priced natural gas feedstock encouraging North American production expansion.
We are also seeing strong demand for railcars that transport fertilizer minerals and agricultural products as export shipments of these commodities expand.
Demand for railcars that serve the lumber paper and coal industries continues to be weak.
The overhang of idle cars in North America is still declining with some railcar types in tight supply.
During the second quarter the North American railcar manufacturing industry received orders to build 16 900 new railcars while delivering approximately 10 600 railcars.
The industry backlog now stands at more than 57 300 railcars.
TrinityRail received orders for approximately 7 860 new railcars during the second quarter while delivering approximately 3 115 railcars bringing our year-to-date delivery total to 5 355.
Our second quarter orders were from industrial shippers railroads and third-party lessors.
TrinityRail’s railcar production backlog was approximately 27 240 railcars at the end of the second quarter up 21% from the end of the first quarter.
Approximately 13% of the units in our production backlog are for customers of our leasing business.
Based upon our backlog and current new railcar inquiry levels we project a further increase in railcar production during the third and fourth quarters.
For the year 2011 we are projecting delivery of between 13 800 and 14 200 new railcars.
As a point of comparison we delivered 4 750 railcars in 2010 and slightly more than 9 100 railcars in 2009.
We were successful securing orders during the second quarter that fit very well with our production plans.
We continue to focus on orders that optimize production at our facilities currently in operation minimize line changeovers and reflects stronger pricing levels.
Our second quarter orders should position us to retain increased operating leverage.
However we are uncertain as to the precise timing of efficiency improvements.
Hiring training and retaining skilled labor to such a steep ramp up in production is challenging.
The length of time required to bring our labor force up to speed will impact the timing and scope of production efficiencies.
Component supply while tight has not thus far impeded our ability to meet delivery commitment to our customers.
We appreciate the responsiveness and support of our key suppliers as we ramp up production.
Our success in maintaining our supply chain reflects the effectiveness of our forecasting and the close working relationship we enjoy with key suppliers through long-term supply agreements.
Our strong supply chain relationships enhance our flexibility to bring on additional railcar production when market conditions support sustainable demand and strong pricing levels.
We added 900 new railcars to our lease portfolio during the second quarter bringing our wholly-owned lease fleet to more than 53 700 railcars a 5.4% increase compared to the second quarter 2010.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of second quarter 2011 was 99.3% our average remaining lease term remained at 3.4 years.
The average age of our railcars in the fleet was 6.3 years.
The TRIP lease fleet totals 14 605 railcars operating in and hundred 99.9% utilization.
As a reminder Trinity owns 57% of TRIP and manages the portfolio.
As I mentioned earlier lease renewal trends are favorable.
A high percentage of our lessees are renewing their expiring contracts therefore lowering our re-marketing expenses.
Renewal rates are showing strong increases.
In the near term we continue to focus on obtaining longer lease terms as we now have the opportunity to reprice assets in a strong lease renewal market.
And increase in our fleet average remaining lease term will take time as we only renew a small percentage of our lease fleet each quarter.
Higher new railcar prices driven by increased demand and rising steel costs are helping to raise the ceiling on lease rates for existing railcars plus supporting stronger lease renewal trends.
In summary current railcar market conditions remain favorable for improved lease fleet returns and increased railcar production.
Our operations team is highly focused on maximizing our operating leverage sustaining production efficiencies.
We will open additional railcar production as sustainable demand prescribes.
We continue to grow our lease fleet to meet customer needs as return support additional fleet investment.
I’ll now turn it over to Antonio.
Thank you Steve.
And good morning.
The wind industry continues to face a number of issues.
Including low natural gas prices transmission constraints and uncertainty about the extension of the production tax credit.
To make wind energy more competitive our customers are increasing the energy output of the turbines.
One way to do this is by using taller wind towers.
Beginning in May and throughout June some of our facilities began transitioning our production lines to manufacture 100 meter as opposed to 80 meter towers.
The change created a steep learning curve that resulted in operational inefficiencies greater than we anticipated.
The impact of this was reflective in our operating margins for the second quarter.
And will continue through at least the third quarter.
At this time it is difficult to precisely predict the point at which we will get past this learning curve.
As a positive momentum occurring in this area I am confident that our people will overcome these challenges.
In summary wind energy technology is evolving rapidly.
At this point we’re committed to working closely with our customers as they develop more efficient models.
As a result there may be brief periods of time when we have to make quick transitions within our production operations to support our customers competitive positioning.
We view flexibility and competencies in this area are strategic differentiators.
I will now turn the call over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Antonio and good morning everyone.
Our Construction Products Group had a good second quarter.
This segment produced a profit of $16.1 million for the quarter compared to $17.7 million during the same quarter a year ago.
The quarter last year included $2.8 million of profits generated by our Ashmore business which we divested in August of 2010.
During the second quarter we made a small acquisition in our highway business.
Additionally a few weeks ago we acquired a small galvanizing business located here in Texas.
These acquisitions are part of an overall strategy to leverage our competencies and expand our Construction Products segment.
Two acquisitions will increase revenue by approximately $30 million per year.
Our Concrete business continues to be challenged by low demand for residential and commercial building.
We have adjusted our portfolio of ready mix assets to achieve the best results possible in the current market.
Our Highway business is continuing to perform well during the peak construction season.
Moving to our Barge segment the flooding of our plant in Missouri was worse than we had estimated.
Floodwaters rose to seven feet in the plant resulting in lost production for seven weeks.
We’re currently running about 50% of plant production and expect to fully recover sometime in September.
Our people have done a great job of getting us to this point in a relatively short period of time.
During the quarter we signed $151 million in new barge orders increasing our backlog to 494 million as compared to 350 million a year ago.
Recent market discussions with our customers are encouraging.
The barge movement with chemicals and coal and grains continues to be strong.
Overall I am pleased with the performance of our barge business.
At this time I will turn the call presentation over to James.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
My comments relate primarily to the second quarter of 2011.
We will file our Form 10-Q later today.
For the second quarter of 2011 Trinity reported earnings of $0.37 per common diluted share more than 60% improvement over the $0.23 per common diluted share that we earned of the second quarter of 2010.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2011 increased to $711 million compared to $543 million in the same quarter last year.
Trinity’s EBITDA during the second quarter increased to $144 million from $120 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The reconciliation of EBITDA was provided yesterday in our press release.
Included in our results for the second quarter of 2011 were $8.4 million in costs net of estimated insurance recoveries associated with the flood in our Missouri barge facility.
As Bill mentioned we have assumed operations and expected fully recover this facility in September.
We were able to partially offset the second quarter impact with $4 million of insurance proceeds related to last year’s flood at our Tennessee barge facility as that claim process continues.
In early July we completed the refinancing of our trip warehouse line.
The refinancing included $857 million of medium and long-term asset-backed securitized debt.
We’re very pleased with the terms of the transaction which was well received by the capital markets and repositioned for future growth.
The refinancing also included $175 million of three years senior secured notes of which Trinity holds $112 million.
At June 30th our balance of unrestricted cash and short-term marketable securities totaled $299 million.
When combined with available capacity under our corporate revolver and Trinity’s leasing warehouse facility our liquidity positions suited approximately $1 billion at the end of the second quarter.
I’ll now discuss our forward-looking guidance.
For the third quarter of 2011 we expect earnings per common diluted share for the company to be between $0.32 and $0.37.
We expect earnings per common diluted share of between $1.35 and $1.45 for the full year of 2011.
We anticipate that the Rail Group will report revenues of between $360 million and $380 million with an operating margin of between 5% and 7% for the third quarter of 2011 as the businesses within this Group continue to ramp up production to meet demand.
We expect deliveries of railcars for leasing company will result in a third quarter elimination of approximately $100 million to $110 million in consolidated revenues and in between $0.06 and $0.08 per diluted share.
For the full year we expect to deliver railcars to our lease fleet with the value of approximately $330 million to $350 million.
Inland Barge revenues are expected to be between $130 million and $140 million in the third quarters.
With an operating margin in the range of 13% to 15% this was the business comes back up from the flood in Missouri.
Revenues from the Energy Equipment Group are expected to be approximately $125 million to $135 million in the third quarter with margins of between 2% and 3%.
In large part due to anticipated learning curve costs associated with building larger wind towers.
Our earnings guidance also includes the step-up in interest expense related to the TRIP refinancing which will be realized for the first time during the third quarter.
We anticipate interest expense on a consolidated basis to increase approximately $5 million per quarter from prior levels after eliminating interest from the amount owed on the $112 million in senior secured notes that are held by Trinity.
Our previous guidance incorporated this additional level of interest expense.
However we expect to incur an estimated additional one-time expense in the third quarter of approximately $0.03 per share related to the refinancing that was not included in prior guidance.
On a consolidated basis we expect TRIP to be slightly accretive to Trinity’s earnings beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Where we fall within our ranges of earnings guidance will depend on a number of factors including the level of operating leverage that we achieve as our Rail businesses ramp up production in response to increased demand the impact of product mix changes in our wind towers business the impact of weather conditions on our construction products business and the rate of recovery from the flood at our Missouri Barge facility.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our first question from Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
So James going back to the guidance that you just walk through.
I just want to reconcile that I’ve got a lot of questions on us today.
If I assume that you are at $0.30 in 1Q $0.40 occurring in 2Q and then you’re going to have a $0.03 impact that’s nonrecurring in 3Q.
Then just making it apples-to-apples to your GAAP guidance doesn’t that make it look more like one 140 to 150? Well again when we report the guidance and we look at historical earnings we’re looking at the earnings that we had in the first two quarters of 33 and 37 so the $0.70 to date.
We had the $0.32 to $0.37 guidance in the third quarter and in the 135 to 145.
We’re not making any non-GAAP type adjustments on recurring type earnings we’re simply comparing GAAP earnings to GAAP earnings.
Okay.
I understand.
I just wanted to make sure that we were reconciling that correctly.
And turning to the rail group your total backlog is 27 000 cars right now.
I know some of that’s on a multiyear contract.
Based on current visibility can you tell us how much of that is scheduled to go in 2012? Steve do you want to take that one? Yeah.
Well I’ve given you or provided you guidance on the number of cars we’ll manufacture in the second half of this year the third and fourth quarters.
And aside from the long-term contract which we announced during the second quarter the balance of our backlog will improve for 2012.
Okay.
So the balance will go in 2012 okay.
That’s great.
And just going back to the delivery cadence in the back half.
So the midpoint if I heard you correctly it’s going to be about 14 000 cars for the year so that implies around 8000 cars for the back half.
We’ve been talking about ramp costs for a while now and the guidance James that you gave for 3Q is 5% to 7%.
If you’re not able to get better EPS conversion on what is a pretty nice unit increase why not ramp a little bit more slowly? Do you risk losing those orders if you don’t get those cards out that quickly? Or can you talk through why the ramp costs are – why you’re accelerating production if you’re seeing these ramp cost persist? Steve? Yeah that’s a good question Steve.
Keep in mind a number of the orders that we received in 2011 were to be delivered by the end of 2011 to take it advantage of the 100% bonus depreciation in the year.
So there was a sense of urgency to meet certain delivery requirements in 2011.
But I think you will see in our production in the third and fourth quarter we’ll start to level off.
And I think you will see us start to realize the operating efficiencies we’re looking for.
And presumably is your backlog filled in anticipation of that what did pricing improve as people – as you know you were slotting those 2011 deliveries? And will that start to flow through as well? We did see strong pricing as availability for production slots in 2011 became scarce.
Some of that has carried over into 2012.
Okay.
And so just – not to put words in your mouth but if I heard you correctly you do expect to start to see that operating leverage really take up at 3Q? We certainly expect to see improvements in operating leverage in the second half of the year yes.
Okay.
Great.
I’ll get back in line.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Go ahead please.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just going back to the rail brief Steve.
I think you guys are opening another line and this is actually – should have been opened already in July.
We had three out of ten of your facilities open and I know you are still ramping up.
I mean what should we think about when we’re looking at that margin? Are they more lines to be open or more facilities for the back half of the year? Steve? Well again our production plans are pretty solid for the balance of the year.
We have told you what we are going to make for the rest of the year.
And we will look at additional increases in our production as demand warrants and as we see our pricing levels improve.
But we are confident we can meet current demand at the facilities we are currently operating.
Great.
And can you talk about order progression in Q2 in terms of did that accelerate stay linear? Just trying to get a sense of how orders were coming through in Q2 if you can.
Yeah.
Orders were very consistent in Q2 with Q1.
Obviously we’ve taken some large orders from third party lessors who have entered the marketplace.
We didn’t see them in prior years.
So that’s had an impact on our order levels.
And I would say that Q3 order levels are coming in fairly consistent with what we saw and Q1 and Q2.
Great.
And Bill I think you said you did a small acquisition on the highway products.
Can you give us a little bit more color on that? Bill go ahead.
Sure Tim.
We made a small acquisition of highway products that was just kind of a natural expansion of products steel related.
We don’t want to go into a lot of details about the particular product but bodes into our business very very well.
And then early in the third quarter we made an acquisition on the galvanizing side and that’s an expansion into the custom galvanizing which is galvanizing for other businesses not just internal galvanizing.
Both relatively small total $30 million in revenue every year.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our next question from Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Go ahead please.
Hey good morning everyone.
I just wanted to clarify couple of things.
So on that $0.03 onetime cost James should that just be viewed as kind of refinancing costs? Yes.
That’s our current estimate of the choices we will take in the third quarter through the refinancing of TRIP.
And then so – is we kind of think about our own model going forward so we will have interest expense.
Are you going to show a separate line item for the interest income on the $112 million debt that you bought from TRIP? That will all be eliminated.
The interest expense and interest income from the TRIP that we don’t will simply be eliminated when you see that at the consolidated level.
Okay.
And then on the barge it’s certainly been adventuresome for you there but I guess I’m a little curious on the guidance on the margin front being 13 to 15.
I guess because the barge margin despite all the challenges that you had was so good in the June quarter and your guidance at that time had been 11 to 13 and even with the flood impact it was still little over 16%.
Can you just talk about why your guidance is 13 to 15 and maybe overall about what is happening with barge pricing? James why don’t you handle the first question and Bill you can take care of the price.
Sure Tom.
And this is James first.
Again as we look at our third quarter we’re continuing to ramp our facility back up.
It’s hard to get it to a normalized margin in the second quarter as you alluded to given what the income was but you don’t have a sense for where the revenue would have been.
Insurance certainly helped us cover some of our costs that we had from the loss of some of that business.
We’ll continue to see some of that flow through the third quarter.
The timing of some of the insurance recovery we will learn as we go along.
But given the pricing of the barges that are in the backlog now that we intend to deliver in the third quarter and where we see the operations right now the guidance we’ve provided is the current view.
I’ll let bill talk about industry trends on barge pricing that we’ve been seeing in recent orders and going forward.
Yeah.
Tom this is Bill.
On pricing if we continue to have a big mix of products that we produce from a hopper to the 30k tank and a 30k tank with heated; so pricing volatility is pretty big when you look at the overall mix of products that we produce.
Steel continues to be a big driver.
It is a highly competitive market and I would say this time Hopper is kind of range near that 500 000 result.
Okay.
All right.
That’s helpful.
And then back on the energy for a moment Antonio I couldn’t quite tell if you were trying to say that the challenges should be largely done by the end of the third quarter or whether there would be possibly a little bit of a spillover on the production and product mix changes at the wind towers? Antonio? Well what I said was – is that at this time it is very difficult to precisely predict when we will be done with this learning curve.
And as I mentioned there are – the industry is evolving so fast and there is technology changes that are happening that make it hard to predict at this moment.
Okay.
Yeah.
That’s fair.
I just wanted to make sure I heard that.
And then lastly what’s the average age of the fleet of TRIP and the lease term there? Usually you give that besides the core Trinity leasing.
James to have that information? We’ll have some detail on that Tom as we release our financials.
The TRIP fleet it has one more quarter of aging of the second quarter from the prior quarter.
We’re not adding cars to TRIP right now.
So that will age one quarter each quarter.
Okay.
And so right now it’s about 3.8 years a little under four years with the remaining lease term of right around where the overall Trinity fleet is about three-and-a-half years.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Art Hatfield with Morgan Keegan.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just – if I could go back to the rail group real quick just a quick question on potential costs in Q2.
As we all know cash products have been a problem and shortage this year.
Can you talk about where that stands and has that created any unusual costs in Q2 that would go away going forward? Steve you want to take that? Yes.
Thank – for the question.
As I mentioned in my comments to date we have not had interruptions in our supply chain on caste products.
We have been able to meet our delivery commitments thus far and that in large part because of our forecasting and long-term supply agreements that we have with providers.
I would also tell you that some of it has been an opportunity for us on our own components business having an opportunity to supply additional customers with some of our capacity for various forging.
So it has not interrupted our rail company business but it has presented some opportunities for our parts and components business.
Okay thanks.
Sorry I missed that.
Just a couple others.
On the energy business I appreciate the comments made about the learning curve but are you finding anything at this point in time that is inherent in the other towers that you are finding that makes 100 meter towers just less profitable? Than the 80 meter towers? Or is it too early to tell on anything like that? James? Sure this is James.
I think as we go to the learning curve process that is right now associated with the costs and the inefficiencies in our plants I would not say that there is inherently a difference in the product itself but that is something that we continue to work with the customer on an understanding the new designs that they make the changes and being sure that we make the appropriate changes within our factory.
Okay thanks.
And then finally just a follow-up again on the interest expense.
I think that James you had said going forward that relative to prior periods the interest expense should be $5 million higher and that is related to the refinancing of TRIP.
But in Q3 there is that additional $3 million in cost of refinancing or $0.03 in earnings and the cost of refinancing and that is in your guidance for the quarter.
That’s correct Art.
Great that’s all I got today.
Thanks.
Thank you Art.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Salvatore with Sterne Agee.
Go ahead please.
Good morning gentlemen.
Morning.
I just have a question and I just want to make sure that I understand the changes in the guidance.
The first question is for the second quarter there was in the barge business there was that $4 million of coverage that offset the the help offset the $4.8 million in costs.
Was that $4 million baked into the original guidance of 130 to 150? No Sal this James Perry.
No it was not.
As you recall the guidance that we gave for the second quarter which would have been incorporated in the full year guidance had $6 million of impact from the flood.
That 6 million is actually a 8.4 million within had a fortunate timing in the quarter of a $4 million recovery from last year’s flood not knowing the certainty or timing of that that the $4 million would not have been included in that guidance.
Okay.
So then the originally the net amount was – that was included the net cost that was included in the guidance was 6 million and the net result ended up being I guess of $4.4 million cost.
Correct? The math is correct Sal.
Okay.
And so you said on the – the $0.03 charge due to the trip refinancing that is excluded from the original guidance.
Right? That was not included in prior guidance that we have given that it is included in the current guidance for Q3 and for the year.
Correct.
Okay.
And then the only other change I guess would be the production and efficiencies in the wind towers business.
Correct? Yes Sal this is still James.
As we talked about we have given you margin guidance for the different businesses in the third quarter.
There are several moving parts right now but the primary difference as you talked about is the inefficiencies we experienced in the second quarter and expect it going forward for a little while in the energy business.
Okay.
Very good.
Then if I could just shift over to the railcar leasing business.
You talked about strong pricing environment and potential for up pricing on lease renewals.
Can you pinpoint for the second quarter and particular what the positive revenue impact was from repricing? James? Sure Sal this is James.
We don’t specifically get into the pricing itself.
You will see as you dive into the 10-Q the operational profit continue to improve in that business.
Utilization has moved up over the last several quarters.
Lease rates have continued to move up and we have also had good success in renewing cars with the same let’s see which reduces some marketing expenses.
That moves quarter-to-quarter but those trends have all led towards over the last several quarters what you now see is very positive minimum in that business.
We also had in the second quarter profitability from car sales.
That is a piece of the business that we periodically have as the market is favorable.
That generated profits of about $3.4 million in the second quarter that is detailed in the 10-Q that we will release after this call.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Can you give a sense for on the railcar leasing business just roughly ballpark what percentage of the book of leases or rose over every year for the next couple of years or quarterly or however you wanted it? Sure Sal and this is still James.
When you look at the average remaining term of our fleet you end up with about 1/7 call it 15% ballpark of our fleet in a given year 15% to 20% of the fleet may roll over.
We don’t have any near-term periods where there’s an inordinate amount of cars coming up for renewal.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just one last question on the railcar business.
What is it after opening the July facility that you alluded to earlier that is being opened in July.
What is your production – railcar production capacity? Steve would you handle that? I’m kind of lost with this facility in July.
Yes Sal Steve Menzies.
We have not made any announcements about opening facilities in July.
We currently operate on our production footprint and feel again that that is satisfactory to meet our current order backlog and demand.
I’m sorry.
I must have misunderstood a comment that was made earlier.
So the current production capacity is there – can you give that? Or is that something you don’t disclose? We typically don’t disclose that.
There is a lot of variables that affect capacity.
But again very confident that our current production footprint meets current demand and as we see demand continue to increase in pricing strengthen we’ll consider looking at additional production capacity to bring on strength.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I’d like to turn it back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
That concludes today’s conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1 o’clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on August 3 2011.
The access number is 402 220-0119.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Good day and welcome to today's Trinity Industries Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
Currently all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
Before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gail Peck Trinity Security Incorporated’s Treasurer.
Ms.
Peck you may begin.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Trinity Industries third quarter 2011 results conference call.
I am Gail Peck Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you’ll hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups Antonio Carrillo Senior Vice President and Group President of the Energy Equipment Group and Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products and Inland Barge Group.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
Our businesses are continuing to experience a variety of scenarios.
I am pleased with their accomplishment.
Demand for railcars in North America remained consistent during the third quarter.
Orders for railcars and our Rail Group once again exceeded deliveries resulting in backlog growth for the seventh consecutive quarter.
Our railcar manufacturing businesses are beginning to achieve operating leverage as they continued to ramp up production.
We expect their performance to improve during the fourth quarter.
Our railcar leasing business is obtaining better lease rates in extending lease terms while responding to favorable opportunities to sale railcars from the lease fleet into the secondary market.
Our Barge group is also experiencing consistent demand.
The order backlog for this group increased 14% during the third quarter.
Our barge facility in Missouri that was damaged by severe flooding in May has fully recovered.
I’m very pleased by the way our personnel responded to the many challenges associated with the flood.
Our Construction Products businesses are performing well in a challenging market environment.
Demand for concrete and aggregates in the markets our businesses serve have been effected by the overall slow down in the construction industry.
Demand for highway products in the U.S.
is heavily influenced by federal highway funding.
The outlook for this market remains uncertain as our political leaders continue to work through federal highway funding legislation.
The international demand for our highway products has been improving.
Our Construction Products businesses are prepared to respond as demand shifts.
Our Energy Equipment Group reported a loss during the third quarter.
The loss was primarily due to issues that our wind tower business experienced as a transition from producing 80 meter wind towers to manufacturing 100 meter wind towers.
The taller towers are substantially heavier and more complex to manufacture than the previous models.
Our wind tower manufacturing specialists are in this later stages of resolving manufacturing transition issues associated with the new wind towers.
We expect the performance of our wind towers business to begin to show improvement during the fourth quarter.
It’s very difficult to precisely predict the details pertaining to improvements when we have manufacturing facilities transition into a complicated new product changeovers.
Our wind tower backlog was approximately $930 million at the end of the third quarter.
The backlog for our wind towers business is comprised primarily of contracts without provisions for customers to substitute these larger wind towers.
Executives at our wind towers business are planning to visit with customers about developing acceptable contract terms or substituting new tower designs.
From a long-term perspective we believe our short-term investment to enhance our manufacturing flexibility in wind towers will improve our market leadership positioning.
We want our wind towers business to remain flexible enough to shift when our customers’ needs changed.
From an overall company point of view I'm pleased with our accomplishments.
As we began our budgeting process for 2012 we have a positive outlook in most of our businesses.
Our overall performance and strength of our market leadership positions reflects the talents and hard work of our employees and our commitment to operational excellence.
We are fortunate to have a highly seasoned group of employees who are extremely capable.
I will now turn it over to Steve Menzies for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning.
Third quarter operating results for the Rail Group and Leasing Group reflect increased Railcar production and approved operating leverage amid consulting railcar demand.
Our Rail Group posted a 17% increase in operating profit while shipping approximately 16% more new railcars during the third quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011.
When compared to the third quarter of 2010 our rail group posted an operating profit increase of greater than 450% and an increase in shipments of more than 216%.
Our railcar order backlog increased for the seventh consecutive quarter.
Our Leasing Group experienced a 21% increase in operating profit compared to the third quarter of 2010 due to higher fleet utilization lease fleet additions higher rental rates and profit from lease portfolios sales.
These rates and renewal trends continue to strengthen as the number of idle railcars in North America declines and railcar loadings increase.
Industry demands for new railcars during the third quarter was generally consistent with new railcar orders during the last two quarters.
Current demand is driven primarily by orders for railcars to transport crude oil from shale and tar sands fields In addition orders for inner motor railcars were placed during the quarter as shifts and equipment preferences for domestic containers has caused a shortage of 53-foot railcars.
Demand for coal-carrying railcars is in equilibrium with the existing coal-car fleet.
New coal car orders during the quarter were for replacement of older coal cars operating in the eastern service.
During the third quarter the North American railcar manufacturing industry received orders to build 20 100 new railcars while delivering approximately 12 500 railcars.
The industry backlog now stands at more than 65 our third quarter orders were primarily for tank and covered hopper railcars and came from industrial shippers and third-party leasing companies.
Trinity Rail’s railcar production backlog was approximately 27 885 rail cars at the end of the third quarter up 2% from the end of the second quarter.
Approximately 18% of the units in our production backlog are for shippers of our leasing business.
We were successfully securing orders during the third quarter that extended production plans well into 2012.
We continue to focus on orders that optimize production that are facilities currently in operation minimize line change or reflect favorable pricing levels.
The third quarter orders should position us to achieve increased operating leverage.
We delivered approximately 3600 railcars during the third quarter compared to 2240 and 3115 in the first and second quarters respectively.
We are still in the ramp-up phase of our production plan and it is difficult to precisely determine our operating productivity to re-stabilize our production levels.
The steep slope of our production ramp up during the last four quarters has been challenging.
Our operations team has done a fine job recruiting hiring and training a new workforce.
We believe that we are now positioned to realize solid improvement in our operating leverage as our labor force becomes more experienced and productive.
For the year 2011 we are projecting delivery of between 13 600 and 14 000 new railcars.
As a point of comparison we delivered 4 750 railcars in 2010 and slightly more than 9100 railcars in 2009.
We believe our production capacity is well positioned for current railcar demand but we will be flexible and prepared to respond to further sustainable increases and demand.
We added 1 100 new railcars to our lease portfolio during the third quarter bringing our wholly-owned lease fleet to 54 445 railcars a 5.4% increase compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the third quarter of 2011 was 99.4%.
Our average remaining lease term remained at 3.5 years the average age of railcars in the fleet was 6.4 years.
The TRIP lease fleet totals 14 600 railcars operating at 99.9% utilization.
As a reminder Trinity owns 57% of TRIP and manages the portfolio.
As I mentioned earlier lease renewal trends are favorable a high percentage of our lessees are renewing their contracts which results in lowering our remarketing expenses and minimizing our service time.
Renewal lease rates are also showing steady increases.
These rates on new railcars have risen to attractive levels.
We expect this trend to continue while overall railcar supply is in equilibrium and new railcar production backlogs are extended.
We have seen strong secondary market activity for the purchase of existing leased railcars during the last few quarters.
Increased availability of capital is supporting the financing of these portfolio purchases.
These portfolio sales of secondary market activity are important tools a railcar leasing company uses to manage portfolio diversification and to capitalize on attractive portfolio trading opportunities.
The size of our leasing on average now totals approximately 670 000 railcars positions us to more actively participate in the secondary market.
During the third quarter we sold a small number of leased railcars from our portfolio.
We expect to increase our lease portfolio sales during the next few quarters assuming market conditions continue to support in active and deep market buyers.
In summary the railcar market conditions remain favorable for improved lease financial returns and lease portfolio sales.
We’re entering the latter phase what has been steep ramp-up of railcar production.
Our operations team is highly focused on maximizing our operating leverage and we’re well positioned to achieve desire production efficiencies.
I’ll now turn it over to Antonio.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
Energy Equipment Group revenues for the third quarter of 2011 remained relatively flat as compared with the same quarter of last year.
However as I mentioned during our second quarter call learning curve costs associated with producing larger wind towers negatively impacted our operating profit during the quarter.
The competitiveness of the power generation market is causing our wind tower customers to focus on developing new wind turbines designs that are more efficient and customized to the geographic location of each wind farm.
Certain wind farms are in locations where taller wind towers can reach out to with better wind patterns.
Other farms may require heavy wind towers to support the installation of larger turbines or longer blades.
Until earlier this year our plants have been manufacturing primarily towers with heights of about 80 meters.
During the spring and summer we began transitioning some of our facilities to manufacture larger 100 meter towers.
These towers are the first generation of this particular model.
Despite being only 25% taller these towers contain approximately twice as much steel and require significantly more welding.
The number of welds and the complexity associated with applying them are the primary elements of the learning curve impacting our production consistency and our cost at this time.
As a leading provider of wind towers in North America the ability to flex our production lines based on product demand is a key priority for us.
Our team is working on enhancing our manufacturing platform so that we can efficiently transition our production lines between wind tower models.
As an example some of our facilities that are currently building 100 meter towers are expected to shift back to manufacturing 80 meter towers during 2012.
We’re developing a better understanding of the complexities associated with manufacturing larger towers and are learning more on an ongoing basis.
We plan to work with customers that have orders in our backlog to develop acceptable contract terms and pricing that will allow them the flexibility to substitute new tower designs.
We do not intend to modify the terms pertaining for our customers overall contractual commitments for towers.
I would now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Antonio and good morning everyone.
Our Construction Products segment continue to perform well during the summer season.
The segment produced an operating profit of $17.8 million for the quarter compared to $20.3 million during the same quarter a year ago.
Last year’s higher third quarter profits included a one-time gain a $3.8 million on the divestiture of our asphalt business and our ready mix plant in Louisiana.
When this one-time gain is eliminated earnings improved quarter-over-quarter by approximately 8%.
In early April this year we completed an asset swap that enhanced our aggregate holdings.
On our last quarter’s earnings call we discussed two recent acquisitions; one in Highway Products and one in Galvanizing.
These acquisitions have now been successfully integrated into our operations.
During the third quarter we acquired another small Highway Products business; combined these three acquisitions will add approximately $40 million per year in revenue.
All of our recent acquisitions divestitures and asset swaps are part of a strategy to grow and reposition the Construction Products segment.
Moving to our Barge segment; I am excited to say that we have recovered from the flooding of our plant in Missouri.
We are currently running at a 100% of plant production.
Our people have done a great job getting us back to this point in a relatively short period of time.
Despite the effects of the flood we recorded operating profits of $26 million for the third quarter.
Insurance proceeds accounted for $3.1 million of those profits; Barge movements of petroleum products chemicals and coal continues to be strong.
During the quarter we signed $214 million of new orders.
Our backlog has grown to $564 million at quarter end which is $49 million higher than at this time last year.
Overall I am pleased with the performance of both our Barge and Construction Products segments; both of which play significant roles in Trinity’s diversification strategy.
At this time I’ll turn the presentation over to James.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
My comments relate primarily to the third quarter of 2011.
We will file our Form 10-Q later today.
For the third quarter of 2011 Trinity reported earnings of $0.40 per common diluted share.
This compares to $0.37 per common diluted share in the third quarter of 2010.
Included in the results for both periods are certain non-recurring items which make year-over-year comparisons difficult.
I will provide highlights for these items during my remarks.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2011 increased to $797 million compared to $540 million in the same quarter last year resulting from a higher level of railcar and tank barge deliveries along with growth in our railcar leasing operations and an increased level of railcar sales from the leasing portfolios.
Trinity’s EBITDA during the third quarter increased to $150 million from $139 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The reconciliation of EBITDA was provided yesterday in our press release.
The Rail Group reported revenues of $320.9 million a 145% increase over the same quarter in 2010 on the strength of 3 605 railcar deliveries compared to 1 140 a year ago.
This reflects a strong growth in demand during the last year and Trinity Rail’s ability to successfully meet that demand.
The Rail Group’s operating profit for the quarter increased to $18.2 million compared to $3.3 million a year ago due to higher volume and increased operating leverage.
During the third quarter the Leasing Group reported revenues of $153.1 million and an operating profit of $64.2 million including $29.3 million of railcar sales from the leasing portfolio which generated $6.5 million of operating profit or $0.05 per share.
This compares to revenues of $122.1 million and an operating profit of $52.9 million last year.
Railcar sales from the leasing portfolio in the third quarter of 2010 totaled $7.2 million with an operating profit of $2.3 million or $0.02 per share.
As Steve commented selling railcars from the leasing portfolio is a regular activity that has a number of benefits.
Selling railcars from the portfolio provides our leasing business with a greater flexibility to meet the needs of customers who want to own as well as lease railcars.
It can also help diversify portfolio composition maximize returns and maintain a relatively low average age for the railcars within the portfolio.
We expect that our leasing business will continue to sell railcars from this portfolio when favorable opportunities are available.
Our Inland Barge Group had another good quarter reporting orders of $214 million while managing through the restoration of its Missouri facility which was damaged by flood waters earlier this year.
Revenues for the Inland Barge Group totaled $143.2 million with an operating profit of $26 million in the third quarter of 2011.
During the third quarter of 2010 our Inland Barge Group is also recovering from a flood this time at our Tennessee facility.
For the third quarter of 2010 the Group reported revenues of $98.9 million and an operating profit of $22.4 million which included a gain on a disposition of flood damaged property plant and equipment.
Our Inland Barge team has done an outstanding job during the past two years meeting high levels of industry demands for barges while simultaneously dealing with two very destructive floods.
I mentioned earlier that certain non-recurring items affected results in both periods making year-over-year comparisons difficult.
Flood-related insurance claim activity is one of the more significant items.
During the third quarter of 2011 we finalized the settlement of our insurance claims from last year's flood at our Tennessee barge facility.
This settlement resulted in the recognition of $3.1 million of pre-tax income during the third quarter.
We did not record any insurance gains or losses in the third quarter of 2011 from the flood at our Missouri facility.
In addition third quarter 2010 results including $9.7 million of net insurance claim activity from the Tennessee flood which included a $10.2 million gain on the disposition of flood damage property plant and equipment.
The Construction Products Group recorded third quarter revenues of $164.8 million in an operating profit of $17.8 million.
This compares to revenues of $160.4 million in an operating profit of $20.3 million in the third quarter last year.
Third quarter results for this group in 2010 included a non-recurring pre-tax gain at $3.8 million resulting from the divestures of its asphalt business.
This group has continued to perform well in a difficult construction environment.
The group has made significant progress realigning its portfolio through a series of strategic acquisitions in the highway products space and a repositioning of assets in the concrete and aggregates businesses to better meet the demand of its customers.
The Energy Equipment Group incurred an operating loss of $1.9 million in the third quarter on revenues of $111.6 million.
This compares to revenues of $106.6 million in an operating profit of $6 million last year.
The loss resulted from production inefficiencies in our wind towers business at a transition from manufacturing 80 meter towers to new line of 100 meters.
As we mentioned in our guidance on last quarter’s earnings conference call we incurred a one-time charge from the TRIP refinancing during the third quarter.
This chart reduced pre-tax earnings by $2.4 million or $0.02 per share.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2011 was 40% compared to an effective tax rate of 32.5% for the third quarter of 2010.
The 40%tax rate in the third quarter of 2011 reflects the increase in our business and investments in certain jurisdictions with higher tax rates.
The lower tax rate in the third quarter of 2010 was primarily due to a favorable settlement of audits and the refund of state taxes in the third quarter of 2010.
As a recap when you take into account the non-recurring items that I’ve discussed in my comments today this year’s third quarter results from our core operations are a substantial improvement over the same period last year.
At September 30th our balance of unrestricted cash totaled $273 million.
When combined with available capacity under our corporate revolver and Trinity’s leasing warehouse facility we have more than $800 million of available liquidity at the end of the third quarter.
We were pleased to announce last week the renewal of our $425 million unsecured corporate revolver through October 2016.
This transaction reflects the continued support of our banking partners and provides us with the liquidity needed to pursue growth opportunities.
I will now discuss our forward-looking guidance.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 we expect earnings per common diluted share for the company to be between $0.38 and $0.43.
This results in earnings per common diluted share of between $1.45 and $1.50 for the full year of 2011.
We expect our fourth quarter tax rate to be in line with our year-to-date rate of 39.6%.
We anticipate that our Rail Group will report revenues of between $420 million and $440 million during the fourth quarter with an operating margin of between 6% and 8%.
We expect our railcar manufacturing companies to deliver railcars to our leasing company that will result in elimination of between $75 million and $85 million to be consolidated revenues and between $0.05 and $0.06 per share of profit.
For the full year we expect we expect deliveries of railcars to leasing portfolio with the value of approximately $330 million to $340 million.
Inland Barge revenues are expected to be between $135 million and $145 million in the fourth quarter with an operating margin in the range of 13% to 15%.
The fourth quarter margin guidance assumes full recovery from the most recent flood and reflects the mix in pricing of the barges that will be delivered in the quarter.
In the Energy Equipment Group we continue to deal with the transition issues associated with building larger wind towers.
We are making progress in this area and expect that our results will begin to show improvement.
However we are unable to provide detailed guidance until we have a higher level of confidence in the timing of these improvements.
Our results for the fourth quarter will depend on a number of factors including the level of operating leverage we achieved as our rail businesses ramp up production in response to increased demand the impact of product mix changes on our wind towers business additional perspective sales of railcars from our leasing portfolio and the impact of weather conditions on our construction products business.
Our guidance does not incorporate any potential impact on earnings resulting from the ongoing insurance settlement related to this year’s flood in Missouri.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from the side of Allison Poliniak of Wells Fargo.
On the rail side you know last quarter you had guided between 316 and 318 on revenue and certainly came in a little bit below that.
Can you address what happened on that in this quarter with that? Yeah our guidance on this on rail revenues was due to the slower than anticipated productivity increases in our manufacturing [facilities].
I would say that we are not constrained by parts and components at this point.
And we have had such a steep ramp up in our labor force and productivity that it is difficult to precisely determine exactly what our deliveries has been and the challenge has been an uphill battle for us and we continue to make progress to get to where we want to get to for the balance of the year.
Okay and in that note in terms of new facilities you know should we be aware of any new start ups in Q4 at this point? Not at this time.
And we will now go to the site of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital.
I am just trying to understand the cadence of incremental margin expansion in the Rail Group you know specifically production has sequentially increased each quarter.
Your guidance suggest a pretty another you know healthy jump in 4Q but if we look at incremental margins they have declined sequentially from 1Q to the current quarter.
So just any further color on why those incrementals have lagged and do you think 3Q is trough for that metric? You know again we have seen some improvement during the third quarter not to the level that we would have liked to seen.
We continue to see more improvement here as we start the fourth quarter and we expect to see improved operating leverage and improved margins during the fourth quarter.
So again the steep ramp up is a significant challenge and doesn’t go quite as smoothly as we would like sometimes.
Is it more a function of pricing in the cars that you've produced or is it labor inefficiency coming from hiring people back can you just trying to get an idea of why that has been at that level? Well I think Steve the issues you are citing as far as a margin expansion is largely related to gaining efficiencies with the new labor force with obviously hiring a lot of people to achieve the production ramp-up that we would like to achieve.
I should also point out that obviously the cars we’re producing and delivering now were cars that were priced six nine 12 months ago and were the first cars into our backlog.
So we think pricing has improved in our backlog and we’ll start to see both improved operating leverage and the results of those better priced cars later in our production.
So the cars going in production now do have better pricing than those that you put out in 2Q and 3Q? I think generally that is true yes.
And are you fully staffed now to where you need to be to be able to put out if we just kind of take the midpoint of your implied guidance of 4 800 cars in 4Q.
Are you there right now and are you seeing improvements in labor efficiency? I am pleased with the progress we've made both on our hiring and in our productivity in this month so far and I am optimistic that we’ll achieve the guidance that we have given you for production.
Okay.
When I look at the 28 000 cars in total backlog can you tell me how many are scheduled for 2012 delivery? No we haven't broken that out thus far Steve.
And our next question comes from the side of Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to get some clarification on the language that you used to describe – you’ve got contracts for that provision to substitute towers from 80 meter to 100 meter etcetera.
I guess a lot of little questions.
What exactly does that mean how late can specifications be changed would the pricing change with that; I mean there is a lot that I can think about there that may be right or wrong in that phenomena? Sure Tom this is James and good morning.
The comments we made refer that the towers we’ve been building were not part of the original contracts we had with the customers.
Designs have been changed and that’s been incremental to our backlog and so those towers went as orders came out of shipment the towers that we delivered in the third quarter.
We’re having conversations with our customers about how to look at those contracts and potentially allow substitution that’s going to come with conversations around terms and pricing and those type things.
Does not really matter of how late they can make a change to those of kind of things; again the towers we’re building now are not part of those agreements and so its an ongoing conversation as we’ve been taking the orders for these newer towers they have been individual conversations and we’ll revisit with our customers for longer-term contracts in the weeks and quarters ahead.
I guess what I get confused by is if I am a customer I am not really expecting that I am going to get a bigger wind tower for the same price.
So it seems to me pricing would be a given that’s a different products with a different price.
So can you – what else gets hang up there when you have these discussions? Well and clearly as you say as I mentioned these are individual conversations Tom so when we talk about pricing is not going to be related to the original supply agreement that we have and we are producing the 80 meter towers.
So we are having those conversations around all the terms and conditions that surround each order.
So clearly to your point you are not looking at larger tower for the same prices of smaller tower.
So these sets of orders that we’re taking now and producing from the third quarter and going forward do have their own sets of pricing.
As we talked about we’re going to a learning curve we’re getting a better understanding for the complexities around manufacturing these towers and that goes into our costing and pricing as we move forward.
So as part of it I am sorry so as part of it understanding your own cost and your own productivity and being able to best price it given that’s a relatively new product for you? You’re exactly right.
This was an investment we knew the larger towers were on the horizon.
We wanted to have the flexibility to be able to shift our production lines as Antonio said in his comments and we had to have an opportunity to gain some experience and develop some data so we could negotiate the terms on the pricing.
We didn’t want to negotiate terms on pricing prematurely without having an idea of what the cost information was.
Okay and then lastly and then I’ll get back in the queue.
To what extent could such issues also exist in the railcar backlog; I mean if there’s changes and I guess it really wouldn’t be changes in terms but it’s hard for me to envision to be the same risk but in light of experience I can’t help to wonder if it doesn’t exist? Now this is something totally unique.
These 100 meter towers are something new to the industry they’re brand new designs they are designs that come out of the turbine manufacturers and then we build to their designs where railcars that are launched are designs that we go through and there might be new that we prototype we gain experience on and it’s just apples and oranges.
So we don’t really see we have anything comparable in the railcar backlog.
And our next question comes from the side of Art Hatfield of Morgan Keegan.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of things here.
First in your guidance do you include any sales from the lease fleet in that guidance James? You know Art we’ve not specifically called that out.
As Steve mentioned we do plan to continue to increase our opportunities to look at those.
We don’t get specific there because timing is uncertain as the opportunities come along but we do plan to have railcar sales in the quarter and going forward.
Understanding that from an outsider’s perspective is it best for us to kind of take the approach to model either a very modicum number or zero number? You know from a modeling stand point as Steve said we had a very small amount that we did in the third quarter.
Right now we’re planning on a rather moderate amount in the fourth quarter but as opportunities and timing present themselves we will look at those one at a time.
I appreciate that.
I know that’s hard to look forward.
A follow up on the 100 meter tower situation is your transition facility still building the 100 meter towers? IF you go back to doing 80 meters in those facilities is that not really an issue that we need to worry about from a cost stand point? Really the issue here is on the front end of the year developing your capabilities to do the 100 meter towers.
As we mentioned as a leading provider of towers in North America it’s very important for us to have the flexibility to go back and forth between models in an efficient manner.
As we mentioned the 100 meter towers have been the primary focus right now.
The 80 meter towers -- when we go back I mentioned in my comments we are planning to going back in some of our facilities in 2012.
We don’t expect the same leases to happen because we already have the experience building that.
Okay.
And then finally just on your capacity in railcar manufacturing Steve I understood that you said earlier that you don’t planned on opening any lines in Q4.
But going forward kind of farther looking -- looking out a little bit further what is your capability to do so if demand continues to increase in railcar? I think one of the strengths we have at Trinity is the flexibility that we have in our facilities and to be able to respond to changes in the marketplace.
You know during the downturn we made significant improvements in our manufacturing base that gave us potential and capacity and efficiencies in our production footprint that we didn’t have previously.
We are -- we do have the ability to transition some of our other existing facilities that maybe make other products within Trinity to be able to support our railcar business if we need to ramp up further to meet additional demand.
So I am very comfortable that within the network of Trinity facilities and with the changes that we’ve made in our existing rail facilities that we have the capacity to meet increased demand should we begin to see that going into 2012.
A quick follow-up to that.
Do you have any facilities currently that are idled and if so clearly you could ramp those up but is it possible that those could be kind of closed permanently going forward? You know without getting into specific facilities I guess the answer is yes or no.
But we do have idle facilities today and we do have facilities that may not come back on stream as well so.
And I think the important thing is our production footprint gives us the capacity to respond to the market demand.
And finally then I will be done.
I just -- it occurred to me.
Is there much cash or cost drag in maintaining any idle facilities I guess in any other businesses? Art this is James.
You know as Steve mentioned we do have a lot of facilities in certain businesses.
We are able to transition this for other products at time.
We are certainly doing that right now.
The drag as you mentioned on earnings or cash is rather minimal.
Certainly it’s on overhead costs you have with utilities and maintaining facilities.
But it’s not a significant impact on our earnings.
And we will now move to the side of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
I just have a quick question.
Just looking at your new orders based on the rail revenue numbers you provided without having to breakdown of components you know trying to roughly estimate what the ASP was in the new orders.
I get to a number of about $100 000 on the new orders received which is a pretty significant increase year-over-year.
How do we think about that going forward? It seems that one of the reasons that your market share of the new orders was a little lower this quarter than say last couple of quarters was I guess because you’ve been focusing on certain car types.
How do we think about that? I guess just two questions.
How do we think about that market share of the new orders going forward over the next couple of quarters and do you expect to see the same solid pricing on your new orders over the next few quarters.
I will respond to the market share new order question and I think James will take the rest of it.
And I think as we’ve said time and time again we don't really look at our progress on our quarter-by-quarter market share basis we really look at market share more as an aggregate over a period of time and then we do spend more analysis looking at specific car types.
The orders we received thus far this year really have been in our sweet spot from a product mix standpoint and to the extent that we’ve been able to secure additional orders to extend those production line we will continue to do that.
And we are seeing very firm pricing in the marketplace and the increasing price in both our new cars as well as in the lease market which at this stage of recovery should be moving for a close correlation with one another.
So you know again we think the order trend is good and we think the order trend is consistent with the cars that we have in our production plans.
In terms of pricing when you see the 10-Q you will see the breakout of the revenues that came from parts and components versus that came from our manufacturing lines.
The $100 000 number that you mentioned is certainly quite a bit high.
You get more than an average of the 75 to 80 000 to 85 000 over the last few quarters.
You’ll see that change is mix change is quarter to quarter both on the delivery than the orders and we can certainly help you with that later today as you see the 10-Q work through the math.
Then I am just switching over to the I guess that new deliveries guidance you provided I noticed that it’s about 200 cars lower than the original guidance.
I guess is that is the view there that I guess one could it be cancellations which I don’t think it is.
Or is it basically some of those cars that you had originally planned to produced in 2011 now spill over into the first quarter 2012? Through the latter we expect those cars to spill over into the first quarter.
We still don’t get them yet here in the fourth quarter.
We’ve had no cancellations of orders with respect to our forecast for deliveries in the fourth quarter.
And we’ll now to the side of Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T for a follow-up question.
Okay just a couple more questions on the towers and that how many towers do you typically make in a quarter? I know in the Q the revenues have been running around $65 million a quarter and then just kind of being extra (inaudible) here how far in advance can a customer cancel a wind tower order? Again as you said we do breakup those revenues in the 10-Qs.
They did come down a little bit in the third quarter.
They were around $53 million in the third quarter.
That came down a bit again as we’re ramping up for the new towers.
As you would expect we had some lower productivity and throughputs so that did come down.
We don’t get into how many towers the volume of course and certainly as we are moving from building 80-meter towers before to 100-meter now the comparison wouldn’t make much sense anyway.
In terms of cancellations and those kind of things when we take an order in our backlog as you recall there’s no cancellation provisions.
So as we take an order we expect to produce that tower certainly right now as we mentioned we’re working off of new orders and purchase orders rather than towers.
From the supply agreements we’re able to claim that productivity consistently over the next couple of quarters.
Okay and then just trying to back into a number here but bear with me.
So your guidance assumes that you’re going to be able to deliver close to 5 000 railcars in the fourth quarter which the only reason I double-checked that is because you’d had such a good record in recent quarters of being able to deliver at or above your guidance.
This is the first time we’ve kind of had a pro forma shortfall in the third quarter.
So you are rock solid to give or take 100 or 200 units you are going to be around 5000? You know when you look at that yes your math is right it is a little shy of 5000 as the implied fourth quarter number there and you know again we continue to go through a pretty steep ramp up from building 1100 a year ago to 3600 year-over-year in the third quarter.
So as you mentioned we were a little shy of our delivery expectations on the revenue side in the third quarter but do expect as Steve said to meet those expectations for the annual basis on the 13 600 to 14 000.
Okay and the math that I am showing of the backlog that you have got 27 885.
It looks like about 20 385 is due in 2012 or later.
I am going to assume at least well probably a few of those are billed beyond with the GATX but it looks like right now thinking about no more orders your production it is probably at least 15 000 for 2012 and of course your order book is not closed for business yet is that in the ballpark thought process? We haven’t projected 2012 deliveries or any quarter of 2012 deliveries.
As you pointed out we are highly focused on achieving the projections we have given for the balance of this year and we will see how orders continue to flow in and how our production ramp up progresses and certainly give you some insight the next time we talk about 2012.
Would you be disappointed if you didn’t produce more? I think I have given you the answer.
And we’ll now return to the side of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yeah just thanks for taking my follow-up.
Steve you talked about how your manufacturing footprint became more flexible in the downturn but did you say where you are capacitized to right now on a unit basis plus or minus? Well I don’t know; if you look at our plans as far as what’s our capacity today certainly we have the ability to increase production at our current facilities with additional staffing.
Right now we think we have got the right staffing for the production plan that we have and we have got – obviously mix has a lot to do with the productivity at our facilities and line changeovers and right now we work very very hard to minimize those line changeovers.
Right.
I guess I am just trying to understand I mean put 3 600 this quarter presumably with suboptimal conditions here; we are looking to 4 800 to 5 000 next quarter is that the limit or can you go to 6 000 or 7 000 based on your existing production facilities? And the reason I ask if you need to bring more capacity online should we expect the same kind of learning curve issues that you are going through right now or is marginal capacity easier to bring online? Steve this is always supposed to be an hour long conference call; we’ve spent a long time answering that question for you Steve.
I’ll just take the unit number then.
Yeah I know you keep working before; we’re highly focused on delivering what we projected in the fourth quarter.
And we’ll now go to the side of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my follow-up question.
Just returning to some of your prepared statements one of the comments you made you said that the orders you received in 3Q were primarily for tanks and covered hoppers.
So should we expect – and then you also mentioned that you are focusing on the car types to minimize changeovers and have attractive pricing.
So should we assume based on that that coal cars and intermodal cars are two of the types that don't fit those characteristics in which pricing is not attractive and should I further assume that you will not be pursuing those types of business in the next few quarters.
Well I think the point that we have tried to make Sal is that we want to maintain a continuous production run of certain car types and we have seen through demand that we are able to do that we’ll take cars and covered hopper cars.
To the extent that we see demand significant enough to establish production and to have a continuous long-term run of cars we’ll certainly look to participate in those markets.
We haven't seen that as being the case in coal or in box cars both of which were cars ordered during the third quarter.
We do not see acceptable pricing levels associated with intermodal products.
So as market conditions continue to strengthen and we see the sustainable demand for certain car types and we see returns commensurate with some of the risks that we take to manufacture we’ll certainly undergo those markets and participate fully and we have the capacity and capabilities to do that.
We have not seen market conditions tell us if that's the appropriate action at this time but we remain flexible and we monitor the market continuously.
Okay.
And the reason I asked the question I guess specifically on the coal side is you know the question that I often get is that Trinity is going to ramp up production of coal cars and provide competition with one of your primary competitors.
So it sounds like – so if I ask the question a different way I mean how much – what type of increase in pricing for coal cars would you need to see from current levels for that to become attractive to you? Yeah good question Sal.
No I don’t know; to answer that that’s really combination of pricing and sustainability of demand.
Again high priced cars have short production runs you know typically don’t lead to successful production planning so it’s a combination of factors and we’re looking at a number of them.
I think Steve you also commented that the coal cars were replacement rather than incremental adds and normally the incremental adds are the sustainable type of production level that we are striving for.
And when the other markets have that and you are able to obtain those then we’ve got line set up we go after that.
Exactly.
Just one follow-up on the line set of things that you just mentioned what are the cost associated with that; how prohibited is that? Cost associated with what? With the line set up to produce coal cars for example? We had the tooling and everything in place and its just a matter of transitioning the facility and feeling; its kind of opportunity cost that says like a portfolio manager would say do I want to pursue this particular product or that particular product when you have markets that are as strong as they are and a real group is a pretty good opportunist group of opportunist and they go after things they get that consistency and can create their operating leverage; Steve and his group has done a really nice job there.
And this does conclude our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the program back to over to our presenters for any additional comment.
That concludes today’s conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1’o clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on November 2 2011.
The access number is 402-220-0118.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
It does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Gail Peck.
Please go ahead.
Thank you [Tara].
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
I’m Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups; Antonio Carrillo Senior Vice President and Group President of the Energy Equipment Group; and Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products and Inland Barge Groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
We’re off to a good start in 2012.
The momentum in our railcar and barge business has generated operating leverage that enhanced our financial performance during the first quarter.
From an overall company perspective I’m pleased with the way our businesses are leveraging off our multi-industry manufacturing platform to pursue growth opportunities in response to market demand.
Our railcar barge and containers businesses continue to benefit from the shale oil and gas exploration and production activities that are well-positioned to capitalize as opportunities surface in the future.
Demand for railcars in North America remain consistent during the first quarter.
Steve will provide additional information on the railcar market during his comments.
Our railcar leasing business continues to perform well by obtaining higher lease rates and securing longer term leases.
This trend continues to build a solid base of leasing revenues and profit.
Our inland barge business obtain a good mix of orders in the first quarter that extended production into 2013.
Demand was driven by several factors including the need to transport oil associated with shale exploration and production.
Our energy equipment group reported a loss during the first quarter.
The results were due to lingering issues associated with challenges in our wind tower manufacturing business.
The wind energy as a whole is continuing to work through a number fundamental issue that are affecting demand for wind towers.
We continue to dedicate management time and company resources to enhancing our manufacturing platform for wind towers so that it can respond effectively to changes in customer demand.
While the financial performance reflects a lack of improvement thus far I believe we are making important strides to improve in this area.
Antonio will provide more additional information during his remarks.
Our construction products businesses are building momentum as they enter the early part of the construction season.
Our highway products business is continue to experience consistency in demand for products due to the lack of long-term that will Highway funding.
We expect levels of uncertainty associated with Highway funding will persist until our political leaders passed a multiyear transportation bill.
Overall our first quarter performance reflects the strength of our multi-industry platform the benefits provided by our market leadership positions and our commitment to operational excellence in that talents and hard work of our people.
The trend lines in most of our businesses indicate another solid year of growth for the company.
I will now turn it over to Steve Menzies for his comments.
Thank you Tim.
Good morning.
First quarter operating results for the Rail Group and Leasing Group reflect improved operating leverage amidst steady railcar demand.
Our Rail Group posted an operating profit of $40.1 million during the first quarter of 2012 a 16% increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and 332 -- 330% increase compared to the first quarter of 2011.
The dollar value of our railcar order backlog remain virtually unchanged at the end of the first quarter despite a slight decline in total units.
Our Leasing Group posted a 22% increase in operating profit year-over-year when compared to the first quarter of 2011 due principally the higher leased renewal rates and profit from these portfolio sales.
Lease rates and renewal trains remained favorable.
Industry demand for new railcars continued at a steady pace during the first quarter.
Industry demand for new railcars totaled approximately 12 500 and were driven primarily by orders for railcars needed to transport crude oil from shale and tar sands fields and orders to general service freight cost by severance cost on railroads bus roads and (inaudible).
In the long run we believe demand for rail transportation to support oil and gas exploration and production activities will continue to generate additional new railcar orders.
Near-term the current price and the abundance supply level for natural gas has negatively impacted drilling plus reducing demand for small covered hoppers used to transport propane and profanes.
At current oil price levels we expect oil drilling and the demand for railcar to transport crude oil will remain steady.
The energy sector will drive an exciting growth opportunity for our businesses we are monitoring industry developments and the downstream impacts closely.
The abundance of low price natural gas is benefiting North American chemical producers several major chemical companies have announced plans to build new plans for significantly expanding existing facilities in North America.
Fertilizer producers are benefiting from low natural gas prices at record spring crop plantings.
Oil and gas drilling is also impacting chemical usage.
As a result domestic chemical production is growing driving orders for new railcars to transport chemical products.
Low natural gas prices have however depressed demand for coal cars as utility switched to natural gas for power generation.
This is only partially offset by slightly improving coal exports.
As a result we have seen an increase in the North American fleet principally related to an increase in railcars placed in storage.
Order for freight cars for auto racks were also placed during the quarter as automobile production is projected to rise in the existing auto rack fleet is fully deployed replacement orders for back cars are in part related to increased auto part shipments orders for railcars to transport steel are also driven by automobile product increases.
During the first quarter Trinity Rail received orders for approximately 3 255 new railcars including auto racks.
Our first quarter orders were primarily for tank and covered hopper railcars from industrial shippers and general service freight cars and auto racks from railroads.
Trinity Rail's railcar order backlog was 27 245  railcars at the end of the first quarter down 6% from the end of the fourth quarter 2011.
The dollar value of the backlog remains stable during the quarter at approximately $2.6 billion.
First quarter orders included higher value railcars and benefited from increasing prices on certain railcars in high demand.
Approximately 21% of the units in our order backlog are for customers of our leasing business.
We were successful in Q1 orders during the first quarter that extend our current product lines for some railcar types into the second half of 2013.
We continue to focus on specific customer orders that optimize production at our facilities currently in operation minimize line changeovers and reflect favorable pricing levels.
Our first quarter orders should positions us to achieve further operating leverage improvement.
We delivered approximately 5 010 railcars during the first quarter compared to the approximately 2 240 railcars we delivered in the first quarter of 2011 and 5 100 railcars in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The steep slope of our production ramp up during the last four quarters has been challenging.
During the first quarter of 2012 we experienced solid improvement in our operating leverage as our labor force is now more experienced and we have stabilized our railcar production rate.
This is evidenced by the increase in our margin during the first quarter while operating at consistent production levels.
For the year 2012 we are projecting delivery of approximately 19 000 to 20 000 new railcars.
As a point of comparison we delivered 14 065 railcars in 2011 and 4 750 railcars in 2010.
We remain flexible in our 2012 and 2013 production plans and the company has the ability to reallocate production capacity for multiple product lines as sustainable demand opportunities weren’t.
While we have the ability to increase railcar production and major component suppliers have now ramped up the industry may face further constraints from the availability of some specialty steel and components required for certain railcars.
We added approximately 1 554 new railcars to our wholly-owned lease fleet portfolio during the first quarter bringing our total lease fleet portfolio including TRIP to approximately 70 000 railcars.
Lease renewal trends are favorable.
A high performance of our lessees are renewing their contracts which lowers re-marketing expenses and minimizes other service time for the fleet.
This just had a positive impact on leasing operating margins.
However the timing of regulatory testing and maintenance can be uneven and some times difficult to project.
Renewal lease rates are also showing steady increases.
These rates and new railcars are attractive investment levels.
We expect this trend to continue to while existing railcars are in tight supply and new railcar production backlogs remain extended.
We continue to see an active secondary market for the sale of leased railcars from our portfolio.
During the first quarter 2012 we sold another group of leased railcars from our portfolio.
We expect additional lease portfolio sales during the next few quarters assuming conditions continue to support an active secondary market.
In summary railcar market conditions remain favorable although driven large part by demand from oil and gas exploration and production activities an increase in automotive production.
We continue to see steady order inquiries.
We are closely monitoring development in these industries to better understand factors that may influence future demand for railcars.
During the first quarter we saw meaningful improvements in our operating leverage as we continue to 2012 our operations team will continue to focus and improving efficiencies while keeping production levels stable for the next few quarters.
We expect to see the benefits of a strong lease pricing environment and an active secondary market supporting lease portfolio sales.
I’ll now turn it over to Antonio.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
The Energy Equipment Group financial results continue to reflect the challenges faced by our wind tower manufacturing business.
The wind energy industry as a whole has changed dramatically during the past few years.
Today wind towers are rapidly evolving as our customer seek more efficient designs that we better compete with other energy sources.
Demand for additional wind energy had a low point.
As a result domestic wind power manufacturing capacity exceed the demand.
During the past year our performance fell short of my expectation as our facilities transition between 80 and 100 meter towers.
At this point I believe the majority of our transition issues are behind us.
However there are still some fundamental market related challenges ahead.
Further wind energy production incentives expire at the end of 2012.
This is creating uncertainty and has brought orders for wind powers to low levels.
Going forward our production flexibility is key.
Wind tower manufacturers must be able to produce a wide variety of tower designs and quickly shift facilities from one design to another and from one customer to another.
Trinity’s multi-industry platform provides additional flexibility.
It allows us to ship some wind tower manufacturing capacity to other creative products in greater demand.
As an example of the flexibility we have in our system one of our wind tower facilities made a quick changeover during the first quarter for manufacturing wind towers to tank containers for the oil and gas industry.
It has since come back to making wind towers for different customers.
These rapid -- rapid plan conversion speaking the progress we’re making in adapting to the challenges of the wind energy environment.
During the year’s when demand for wind powers was high we entered into long-term contracts have continued to provide a foundational work.
However as long as wind tower demand is low we will remain flexible to accommodate our customers production volumes and product mix.
In the current operating environment which has shorter production runs and more strong conversions it would be difficult to obtain operating leverage.
We’re highly focused on returning the energy segment to profitability.
I’m pleased with the continue growth of the other businesses within the energy equipment group.
We have done a great job in taking advantage of opportunities for new products and expanding production capacity in response to market demand.
I will now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Antonio and good morning everyone.
Our Construction Products group continued to perform well during the first quarter producing an operating profit of $10.8 million compared to $8.3 million during the same quarter a year ago.
This 30% improvement was driven by our efforts during the past two years to reposition the mix of product lines within this segment.
I continue to see more opportunities to grow and reshape the segment in the coming year.
From a headwind perspective we are seeing some slowdown in demand for Highway Products related to the lack of a multi-year federal highway bill.
I’m confident that we are positioned to perform well in the current market climate should Congress approve a multi-year federal highway bill I believe we will be in a strong position to respond to increased demand.
Moving to our Inland Barge Group.
For the first quarter our barge business had sales of $169 million and reported operating profit of $30 million.
$3.4 million of this operating profit was a one-time gain related to the sale of lease barges to third parties.
The net result was $26.6 million in operating profit as compared to $21.7 million in the same quarter of 2011.
Barge movement of petroleum products chemicals and export coal continues to be strong.
During the quarter our sales team did a great job bringing in a $187 million in new orders.
These new orders reflect a very nice mix of dry and liquid barges.
At quarter end our barge backlog reached $512 million.
Overall I continue to be pleased with the performance of both our barge and construction products group.
At this time I'll turn the presentation over to James.
Thank you Bill.
And good morning everyone.
My comments relate primarily to the first quarter of 2012.
Our Form 10-Q will be filed later today.
For the first quarter of 2012 Trinity reported earnings of $0.66 per common diluted share a 120% improvement over last year’s first quarter earnings of $0.30 per common diluted share.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2012 increased 46% year-over-year at $925 million as a result of increased railcar and barge shipments continued growth in our railcar leasing operations and strategic acquisitions made last year by our highway products businesses.
Trinity’s operating profit increased 43% during the first quarter the $122 million and our EBITDA increased 31% to $175 million compared to the first quarter last year.
The reconciliation of EBITDA was provided in our press release yesterday.
The Rail Group recorded 113% increase in revenues in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same quarter last year as railcar deliveries more than doubled to 5 010 railcars during the quarter.
Operating profit for the Group increased to $40 million during the first quarter compared to $9 million a year ago.
The increase in revenue and profits for the quarter reflects the strength and the recovery of railcar demand and Trinity rail successful ramp up of current production capacity to meet demand and achieve operating leverage.
During the first quarter the Leasing Group reported growth of 6% in its leasing and management service revenues compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Total operating profit for the Leasing Group were at $67 million including $7 million of gain from railcar sales from the lease fleet compared to operating profit of $55 million during the first quarter of last year including $1 million of gains from railcar sales from the fleet.
The lease fleet continues to experience improved utilization and higher rental rates compared to last year.
In addition due to the size and strength of the lease fleet this group continues to successfully pursue opportunities to sell railcars from the lease fleet in the secondary market in line with this portfolio objectives which include maximizing returns diversifying the lease fleet and managing investment levels.
Our Inland Barge have had another positive quarter in terms of operating performance.
Revenues were 23% higher in the first quarter compared to the same quarter last year.
The Groups operating profit was $30 million compared to $22 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating profit for the first quarter of 2012 included $3.4 million net gain from the sale of 15 barges included in property plant and equipment that were previously leased with third party customers.
There are only two barges remaining in the barge list rated this time.
Excluding the gain from the sale of barges in the first quarter the barge group delivered operating margin of 15.7%.
The Energy Equipment Group incurred an operating loss of approximately $4 million during the first quarter on revenues of $125 million.
This compares to an operating profit of $11 million on revenue of $119 million last year.
Revenues for the first quarter of this year increased compared to the same period last year as a result of higher shipments of tank containers tank cars the utility structures partially offset by lower volumes of wind towers.
The operating loss results from transition issues arising from changes in product mix and our wind towers business as all of competitive pricing on wind towers.
The construction products group continued to perform well in a challenging construction environment generating first quarter revenues to grew about 16% over the same quarter last year.
Operating profit grew from $8 million in the first quarter of 2011 to $11 million in the first quarter of this year.
This segments performance continues to reflect the positive impacts of strategic portfolio realignments resulting from the acquisitions in the Highway product space and asset repositioning to along with demand for construction materials produced our Concrete and Aggregates business.
In summary this year’s first quarter results from our core operations apply to significant improvement over the same period last year.
At quarter end our balance of unrestricted cash totaled $305 million.
When this cash is combined with available capacity under our corporate revolver and Trinity's leasing warehouse facility we had approximately $850 million of available liquidity at the end of the quarter which positions us to capitalize on business opportunities as they arise.
I will now discuss our forward-looking guidance.
For the second quarter of 2012 we expect earnings per common diluted share for the company to be between $0.70 and $0.75.
For the full year we expect earnings per common diluted share of between $2.55 and $2.70.
We anticipate that the Rail Group will report revenues of between $500 million and $525 million during the second quarter with an operating margin of between 9% and 11%.
We expect railcar manufacturing to deliver railcars to our Leasing company that will result in elimination of between $85 million to $100 million in consolidated revenues and between $0.05 and $0.07 of earnings per share in the second quarter.
This comparison in elimination of $123 million in consolidated revenues and $0.08 of earnings per share in the first quarter.
For the full year we expect our net Leasing capital expenditures to be between $300 million and $350 million.
Included in our guidance for the second quarter is approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share of gains from the sale of railcars from our lease fleet.
Our annual guidance includes approximately $0.12 to $0.14 per share from lease fleet sale gains.
The level of railcar sale activity from the lease portfolio is difficult to accurately project given the opportunistic nature of the transactions in the secondary market.
Thus the secondary market remains receptive to sales from the fleet.
So we continue to seek opportunities to conduct such transactions.
Inland Barge revenues are expected to be between $160 million and $170 million in the second quarter with an operating margin in the range of 15% to 17%.
Our wind towers business continues to be focused on enhancing its ability to transition efficiently between wind tower models when customer's product needs change.
This business is making progress in these areas and we are focused on improving the results in this segment.
However we remain unable to provide detailed financial guidance until we have more clarity about the exact timing of these business developments.
We will continue to evaluate market conditions as we deploy capital to provoke the growth of our businesses.
Our current plan calls for an investment of $100 million to $125 million of capital expenditures in our manufacturing businesses during 2012.
As a multi-industry company we have a lot of moving variables in our businesses and in the external environment.
Our results for the second quarter and full year earnings for 2012 will depend on a number of factors including the orders we received that will fill in the remaining open slots in our rail and barge backlogs.
The operating leverage we can achieve in our rail and barge businesses as we operate at this elevated level of production our ability to conduct attractive sales from our railcar lease fleet in the secondary market uncertainty around the long-term highway bill weather conditions for our construction businesses and continued challenges in our wind tower systems.
In addition as we reported we benefited from a lower effective tax rate of 32.9% in the first quarter due to the settlement of certain tax audits.
For the remaining three quarters of 2012 we expect our tax rate to be at a more normalized level of between 37% and 38%.
Overall we expect to have a solid 2012 substantial growth over 2011 results as reflected in our guidance.
Our operator will now prepare for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go first to the site of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Agee</strong> Good morning all.
Good morning.
Agee</strong> Unfortunately I’m probably having some phone issues so you’re in and out.
So I missed a few of the comments that you made.
So I apologize if I’m making you repeat them.
But first question is on the lease side the guidance you gave is that $0.12 to $0.14 per share of lease fleet sale gain for the year.
For the year that’s correct Sal.
This is James yes.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And that’s up from if I remember right ‘10 to ‘12.
That’s right.
Yeah.
The performance we saw in the second quarter as well as expectations for the rest of the year led us to increase that slightly.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And then the other question is on the orders that you received in the quarter did you mention what the breakdown was there between I guess tank cars.
I think you mentioned that one of the areas that had continued strength and was it auto production.
Was it auto railcars.
Steve? Sal this is Steve.
We don’t break it down specifically but our orders were primarily for tank and covered hopper railcars to industrial shippers.
And then some general service freight cars and auto racks from Class one rail racks.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And of those the covered hoppers to industrial shippers I assumed those are not the small covered hoppers that are used for fracs out correct? Some of those were small cube covered hoppers cars but I think if your questions we’ve seen a decline in orders for those cars serving the fracs in province market the answer is yes.
Agee</strong> Okay.
How long is it -- that weakness has been -- I guess that step down in orders for car serving that market that’s pretty much started was it a couple months ago now would you say? Again this is Steve.
We begin to see the decline in their market probably late fourth quarter early first quarter.
We see their markets taken up either.
Given the projection we see long term for gas drilling.
At least this time starts project a recovery in that market perhaps sometime during 2013.
Agee</strong> Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just one other question on the box cars market.
Are you seeing any increase in inquiry in that market? Generally not.
There was a large order of box cars during the first quarter from TTX that was principally replacement and in part driven by demand for auto parts shipments.
But we’ve not seen any consistent orders for box cars in that market.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And then just a last question can you comment on if I just look at total well group revenue and divided by the deliveries understanding that there is the rail components parts which I assume you will provide in the – (inaudible) but it seems that the ASP was roughly I think $120 000 or so which is a nice sequential increase.
How should we think about how much of that was just mix of higher price cars versus fair pricing? Again Steve Sal.
It’s difficult to generalize about pricing because our different product markets are behaving differently.
Clearly that improvement that you’re seeing was in part from higher valued cars as we would refer to we had.
We sold some catalogs during the quarters.
There are some Chevrolets.
But we’re also seeing increase in pricing and cars are in very high demand.
Agee</strong> And those catalogs but tank cars as I said those are higher priced cars right? I think that’s where we are seeing rising prices and your higher priced cars would probably do the auto racks that you asked about earlier.
Agee</strong> Auto racks.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We will move next to the side of Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi there good morning.
This is [Alex Gordon] for Art.
Couple of questions though one on the barge lease fleet.
Could you give a little color on the decision to sell the 15 and what are your plans out for the remaining two? Bill.
Yeah.
Sorry Alex.
The team really resulted in people having options to buy at certain periods of time and then several of the barge just coming out lease and another third party being interested.
So it is really just a moment in time contractually.
So the remaining two we don’t have any current intent to sell.
But that’s not to say that given a right sided economic that we wouldn’t sell those.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then lastly on the TRIP fleet.
I know that it actually grew about by about 120 cars.
Can you talk about what’s going on there and why do you have growth in fleet? Sure.
Alex this is James.
On the TRIP fleet we had in the last couple of quarter some sales of cars from the TRIP fleet with our general secondary market transactions we’ve had along with our wholly-owned lease fleet.
Part of TRIP with its debt and its requirement that those cars are replaced to keep that fleet at a relatively stable level.
So TRIP replaced those cars during the first quarter for cars that are sold during the fourth quarter.
So if you go back a couple of quarter it remained stable but you saw an increase from Q4 to Q1.
<u></u> Okay.
I see.
Thank you for that and that does it for me this time.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to the site of Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi.
As Steve I think you eluded this with somebody else’s questions Sal’s question may be.
But the same value for the backlog is that more driven by mix in the backlog right now or is it may be to a lesser extent pricing or am I reversing it somehow? Allison you’re right.
It is mixed but we are also seeing increase in prices on cars that have been stable in our backlog as well.
And I should also point out that we’ve also seen significant price increases in steel and steel components that’s driving railcar prices too.
Okay.
And I guess in line with that was particularly the mix issue.
Any upcoming significant line changed over the next two quarter that we should be aware of? None that you should be aware of.
Nothing significant.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to the side of Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I've got a couple of questions here.
First on the guidance I’m not trying to knit pick but the world we live in right now.
So if I take kind of the upper end of what you could do in the first half 66 plus 75 its $1.41.
And I kind of take it doesn’t matter whether I take the low end or higher end of your annual guidance it clearly implies a little less earnings in the second half of the year.
And so my question is is this because of the uncertainty of energy and the fact that you probably see losses for at least another quarter or two or is it because you’re seeing some sort of a slow down in railcar activity and that’s implied in that guidance? And Tom this is James.
As I highlighted a little bit in the script we have a lot of moving parts right now.
You look at things around and uncertain highway build.
Certainly you mentioned the energy space.
We don’t have specific guidance there for what we expect to continue but we continue to have challenges in the wind tower business.
We’ve had a higher level of sales from the lease fleet in the first quarter.
And we’re projecting the second quarter than you would see in the back half of the year.
As we mentioned we’re still looking for opportunities for attractive transactions in that space.
So as we find those then we will look at taking advantage of those opportunities and then as we mentioned also we still have open slots in both our rail and barge production lines.
And so as we look to fill those slots the level of production we’re able to achieve the operating leverage we can achieve in the pricing and resulting margin of all those variables will be important to know what the back half looks like.
And as I mentioned finally the tax rate there was an advantage in the first quarter from the art is we’re able to settle.
And as you return to more normalized tax rates at the back half of the year specially you see a bit of an impact there.
So early as I said it’s a lot of moving parts we have in our businesses right now.
We’re certainly looking to take advantage of everything we can in the market but there are some challenges in some of the businesses so we get through the rest of the year.
Okay.
Steve you did a good job of providing some commentary on the different railcar types but I think just stepping back are -- what are you really sensing in the attitude of perspective buyers.
Is it a little bit of a pause because perhaps the economy did something in the last five or six weeks or just any change in the tenure.
Forget about just Q1 orders because that’s what I think everybody is trying to figure out here.
There is a lot of capital goods data points that have decelerated since early March?  Tom this is Steve.
When we were going forward we really see the energy sector driving demand and I’ve mentioned increased automotive production will also drive demand that is implications in chemical production perhaps plastics steel as well as automobile carriers auto rates.
So we really see consistent demand coming from those three markets and I’ve not really seen a slowdown in demand from many of those markets.
Okay.
And I guess the other question back to energy.
We know its been an issues for few quarters now.
I think the thing that is probably little bothersome everyone is got a little bit of surprise loss in September we all digested that made a little bit of progress in the fourth quarter the loss was under 1 million.
Now it just feels like the whole little bit of a small Pandora’s box is just opened up almost $4 million loss and its just hard -- when you got some macro worries and a small business unit having issues.
Can you say with any confidence the loss is likely to narrow because your commentary had somethings about pricing mix supply demand and other things that were a little bit more descriptive in the last couple of quarters so it lead us to believe that maybe this is the new run rate of losses? Tom this is Tim.
You make some really good points there and some good observations.
The financial performance of our wind tower business does reflects a lack of improvement as I said in my script.
But we’re really making some good strides and our efforts to improve our performance which is very difficult to precisely predict the timing of the improvements due to complexity associated with the wind energy business as well as the internal challenges that we’ve had.
The product mix challenge associated with the wind towers are very complex.
And we made a lot of headway in our manufacturing facilities.
The designs are changing more rapidly.
As Antonio had mentioned in each tower tie pads has own unique features which require a high level of expertise at the manufacturing level.
So that’s why we’ve made some significant investments to enhance our manufacturing confidences in this area.
And I feel confident that we’re making good progress in this area.
We’re just not at a point where we can give a precise predication of our success but my feeling is very positive in this area.
We’ve got a lot of really high quality people that we’ve dedicated resources on and from an internal point of view we’re seeing some really good progress.
So Tim I’ll get back in the queue here.
If I had to summarized what was more difficult in the March quarter than in the December quarter.
Just I understand all those bigger issues but something was more difficult one or two things were that really stood out in seeing a loss climb almost 3 million sequentially.
Well for one thing and Antonio mentioned it we had one plant that finished up at the end of the year without any towers.
And so back in the fourth quarter they did a really nice job of placing some containers in that facility to cover some of the overhead that was associated with it and generate some revenue for that facility.
And then they were able to convert back from containers to wind towers right at the end of the quarter.
And I think the wind tower run that they have in that plant right now is going to be on more consistent basis for a few months.
And so that was probably one of the more significant events that we had.
Okay.
It was kind of good new and bad news that gave us this opportunity to prove out some flexibility that we have and gave us encouragement that we can continue to do that.
And that’s going to be crucial as Antonio said in his comments about flexibility.
Okay.
Tim thank you.
Sure.
We’ll move next to the site of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You said the tank cars – I mean clearly tank cars remain very high among the car types and both you guys may arise this morning you’re now quoting for the third quarter of 2013 or beyond for delivery slots there.
I was just curious if you guys have added any capacity or do you plan to going forward with AR they in their peak and GBX sticking with one tank car line for now.
Yeah.
This is Tim.
I don’t believe Steve that we stated we were quoting delivery in that time period for tank cars did we? No.
We do have some of our backlog extends into the second half of 2013 where did not say what car types those were.
Yeah.
So you want to comment on tank car capacity and… Well I think the question really before us is what type of flexibility.
Do we have in our operations to be able to adjust to shifts in demand and clearly Bascome we’re seeing significant demand for tank cars.
When we look to add capacity we’ve done a number of things in our existing facilities to increase the capacity through lean initiatives.
So we still feel we have added the capacity in our facilities to meet that demand.
We also have the ability within Trinity’s product lines to shift and we allocate production capacity from one product line to another.
And as we see again demand being sustainable we will consider those options as well.
I will tell you at this time we do not pursue the need to open any idled facilities.
And again we’re confident between what our production platform is through our Trinity and the capacity we have at our existing plants where we’re well capacitated for the demand in tank cars.
Okay.
Well that makes sense.
And if we don’t get the [PTC] extension in wind and that starts to wind down later this year.
What sort of a timing on that wind down and when you might seek to potentially use your flexibility to maybe serve tank containers or tank cars with one of those plants.
Antonio you want to take that? Well we have different facilities making wind powers today.
And each one of them depending on our contracts has different timing.
So there is not a specific timing on each facility but as I mentioned the flexibility is there.
The processes are very similar so the flexibility there to do it as the facilities wind down and tank car needs and sees demand sustainable to support those facilities.
Do you have wind deliveries scheduled for 2013 at this point? We do have contracts that are expanding to 2013.
All right.
Thank you guys.
That’s all I have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll move next to the site of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
For those high dollar cars you booked -- to those end of production do you have 12 or more 2013 delivery I’m trying to understand when that positive mix might really start to hit your margins? Steve this is Steve Menzies I think the answer to that is yes its both in the second half of this year and going into 2013.
Okay.
And I think if I heard right you suggested they will open deliveries for 2012 in Rail Group but I know you don’t talk about either the car types but are you saying you are not fully booked for the 19 000 to 20 000 deliveries or I guess another way what percentage of backlog you specifically selected for 2013? We’ve not historically broken out our backlog by years.
We do have some slots yet available in 2012 and certain lines of ours.
In railcars we do have the benefits of our long-term contract with GATX which spills into 2013 and beyond.
Okay.
Switching gears Steve you had mentioned there were constraints for some types of specialties deal for products.
And I missed or I didn’t hear it right.
Is that a current or potential risk to production what type of car were you specifically talking about there? Some tankers require specialty steel.
And that specialty steel is known as normalized steel.
And that steel is highly specialized and there are only a few producers of that -- today.
That steel is also used in some of the applications for oil and gas drilling so there is high demand for that of steel from some other industries as well.
So as we look to continue to expand tank capacity and to respond to demand for railcars in their market that is a potential constraint that needs to be considered and moving forward as well as the potential for the ability to securing debts for increased tank car production.
And just to I understand does normalized steel go into a normal ethanol or crude cost or is that more for a [TIH] cars something like that? There are new requirements being put forward by the FRA that will require normalized steel to be utilized what we referred to as packaging groups one and two hazardous commodity tank cars of which any of these oil products and ethanol are considered part of.
Got it.
And whether those are proposals those are in place right now? The industry seems to be operating for new car production to those rules we’re certainly producing to those rules.
And final rule making has not been completed by the FRA.
Got it.
Okay.
And one other on leasing.
Could you say what the increase in lease price was for renewals in the quarter year-over-year? I did not and we don’t typically disclose that but we’ve seen very steady increases in lease renewals along with a very high percentage of our customers renewing their expiring contracts.
Is it fair to say if you’ll take a shot at it were those lease renewals up double digit year-over-year or single digits? Yeah.
They’ve been very good lease renewals.
Got it.
Thanks.
I guess I’ll get back in line.
We have a follow-up question from the side of Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
I just wanted to follow-up a little bit.
And I think periodically you get asked this question but -- in the first quarter your market share of the new orders was about 25% historically your share of orders and particularly production can run higher than that.
What are your thoughts here relative to share versus profitability? It would seem like you’re in a spot to really manage your margins and profitability like never before and may be the market doesn’t fully recognize that.
So I’m just curious share versus all those other thoughts.
Steve.
Sure Tom.
This is Steve.
And I know you’ve followed us for a while.
We have never driven our business by market share and certainly any one quarter can be skewed from time-to-time by one large order or several very moderate size orders.
Or in certain -- or quarters those orders we didn’t pursue.
And we do look at market share trends over longer periods of time and detailed market share by specific car types.
But our principle objective is to focus on orders that optimizes our production in our facilities currently in operation minimizes line changeovers and reflects favorable pricing levels.
And I’m very please with the orders we took in the first quarter satisfying those requirements and those are the orders that we’ll continue to pursue going forward.
Do you feel like there is the opportunity to set record margins this cycle and railcar manufacturing and then an easy one is should we look for Q2 production to be comparable to Q1.
Tom this is Tim.
I don’t really feel like that where we can comment about record margins and opportunities.
There’s endless opportunities within our company to always enhance profitability and we’re striving as best we can.
And it’s just a real complicated question to try to respond to.
So I don’t think we have a precise answer to that.
And Tom the second priority to your question this is Steve with respect to production levels.
I think I’ve indicated we expect production to be between 19 000 and 20 000 cars for the year.
And if you look at our first quarter here we had 5 000 cars produced.
So I think you can kind of assume that there is a steady production level for the balance of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further questions in queue.
At this time I’d like to turn the program back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
That concludes today’s conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1 o’clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on May 3rd 2012.
The access number is 402-220-2669.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Please standby your conference is about to begin.
Good day everyone.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Please note this call maybe recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity Industries.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Victor.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Trinity Industries Second Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
I’m Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
Our business has performed well during the second quarter.
We continue to see a strong demand for products to transport and store crude and other liquids critical to the energy industry.
Our railcar and barge manufacturing businesses are aggressively pursuing demand for products that serve these industries.
The backlog for these businesses totaled approximately $3.7 billion at the end of the quarter.
The size of our rail and barge backlogs provides our business leaders production visibility deep into 2013.
Our business leaders have been highly effective at working together to reposition a portion of our production capacity to pursue robust market opportunities.
During the next three months we will shift more production capacity to serve the oil gas and chemicals industries.
As a result the number of our businesses within our portfolio will benefit from this transition.
As we began 2013 we expect our rail group to be in the early stages of a long production run of consistent product that serve these markets.
We expect the similar situation of long production runs to continue in the area of our barge business to serve this markets.
A number of our other businesses which provide internal support and manufacture products for these industries should also obtain long production runs and generate operating leverage.
Trinity’s Railcar Leasing and Management Services group performed well during the second quarter obtaining higher lease rates and securing longer lease terms.
The size and product mix of our lease fleet provides the opportunity to pursue secondary market sales when certain industry characteristics are favorable.
This group will continue to pursue opportunities to capitalize on strong demand for certain types of secondary market sales of leased railcars.
I’m pleased that our Energy Equipment group reported a profit during the second quarter.
I’m confident that our team is moving in the right direction.
We will adjust our production capacity for wind towers with industry demand and shift access capacity whenever possible to other industry products.
The federal highway funding legislation that was recently implemented extends the current levels of highway funding for two more years.
This should be a catalyst for our construction products businesses which serve this industry.
Our balance sheet is in great shape and our overall financial position is strong.
The business environment appears to be shaping up nicely into 2013 for our businesses that serve the oil gas and chemicals industries.
We are well-positioned to capitalize on additional opportunities for growth in a variety of industries.
We’ve been very delivered during the past decade to position Trinity in a way that allows us to pursue a variety of opportunities in various industries.
Our business is a very experienced and shifting resources as demand changes aggressively pursuing orders to establish production runs and generating operating leverage which leads to margin improvement during periods of consistent production levels.
Our manufacturing flexibility is one of Trinity’s core competencies and we plan to utilize it as we see opportunity surface within the industries we serve.
Overall our second quarter performance reflects the strength of our multi-industry platform the benefits provided by our market leadership positions our commitment to operational excellence and the talents and hard work of our people.
I will now turn it over to Bill McWhirter for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Our Construction Products group produced an operating profit of $15.2 million during the second quarter of 2012.
This is a slight decline from the same quarter year ago which we attribute to a soft highway products market.
The recent passage of much anticipated two-year high bill should improve market conditions by providing a stable environment for states to plan projects.
The timing of the improve market maybe a little slow in coming but we should see better market conditions in 2013 and 2014.
Another encouraging sign for the construction market is a recent uptick in homebuilding.
Overall I see positive signs for market growth in 2013 and 2014.
We continue to see this segment as a key contributor to Trinity’s multi-industry vision.
As such we will seek opportunities to grow and reshape the segment in future.
Moving to our Energy Equipment group the second quarter marked a return to profitability posting an operating profit of $4 million.
In the near-term I believe we have an opportunity to continue improving profitability over the second half of the year.
From a long-term planning perspective we see a significant decline in wind tower production in 2013 as the production tax credits seems likely to expire without renewal.
We are in discussions with our customer to determine the appropriate rate of production for 2013 based on the status of the PTC and overall market demand.
Unfortunately Trinity’s Railcar business has significant demand and will utilize some of our excess wind tower manufacturing capacity.
And finally I’ll close with our Inland Barge group for the second quarter our barge business have revenues of $174 million and operating profit of $36.6 million.
Clearly the second quarter financial results were strong.
The results achieved were primarily due to the delivery of an order of specialty barges.
In addition the general mix of standard barge types delivered during the quarter was favorable.
During the quarter our sales team did a great job bringing in $203 million in new barge orders.
At quarter end our barge backlog grew to $541 million.
From a market demand perspective we have mix conditions.
The movement of petroleum and chemical products has created a robust market for tank barge.
I would describe the dry cargo market has more normalized with some downward pressure.
Both reduction and domestic coal usage and the uncertain rain harvest are the primary drags on the market.
Overall I continue to be pleased with the performance of our business unit teams.
At this time I will turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
Second quarter results of the Rail group and Leasing group reflect improved operating leverage and a solid increase in our order backlog amidst steady railcar demand.
Our rail group reported an operating profit of $53 million during the second quarter of 2012 a 32% increase compared to the first quarter and a 244% increase compared to the second quarter of 2011.
The dollar value of our railcar order backlog increased over 23%.
Our Leasing Group reported 28% increase in operating profit when compared to the second quarter of 2011 to principally to a larger lease fleet higher lease renewal rates and profit from lease portfolio sales.
Lease rate and lease renewal trends remain very favorable.
Industry orders for new railcars totaled approximately 16 400 and were driven primarily by orders for railcars needed to serve the oil gas and chemical industries.
During the second quarter 2011 Trinity rail received orders for approximately 8 610 new railcars of second quarter orders were primarily for tank and covered hopper railcars and came from industrial shippers and third-party leasing companies.
Trinity rails order backlog was 30 610 railcars at the end of the second quarter up 12% from the ended the first quarter.
The dollar value of the backlog increased to an all time high at approximately $3.2 billion reflecting orders per higher value railcars in raising prices for certain railcars in high demand.
Approximately 23% of the units in our order backlog are for customers of our leasing business.
We were successful securing orders during the second quarter that extend current production lines for some railcars types into 2014.
Also during the second quarter in response to a shift in the mix of railcar demand we began to execute plans to change over certain existing railcar production lines and to transition excess wind tower capacity to railcar production.
Our operating flexibility was key to our success in capturing the large number of orders in the second quarter.
We believe our actions will position Trinity rail to produce a more favorable railcar mix through 2013 and into 2014.
While we expect our rail group revenues to grow in the second of 2012 due to our shift in railcars mix we may not see the same rate of operating margin improvement we demonstrated from the first quarter to the second quarter due to cost we expect to incur related to our production transition and product line changeovers.
We delivered approximately 5 245 railcars during the second quarter compared to be approximately 3 150 railcars we delivered in the second quarter of 2011 and 5 010 railcars in the first quarter of 2012.
During the second quarter of 2012 we saw solid improvement in our operating leverage due to a more experience labor force and the stabilization of our railcar production rate.
This is evidence by the increase in our operating margin during the second quarter while producing at consistent levels.
For the year 2012 we are still projecting delivery of approximately 19 000 to 20 000 new railcars.
We added approximately 1 565 new railcars to our wholly own lease free portfolio during the second quarter bringing our total lease fleet portfolio including TRIP to approximately 70 700 railcars up 1.5% compared to the lease fleet portfolio at the end of the first quarter of 2012.
Lease fleet utilization remained above 99% for the eight consecutive quarter.
These renewal trends are very favorable given the extended production backlog we have for certain railcar types.
A high percentage of our lease fees are renewing our contracts which lowers re-marketing expenses and minimizes other service time for the fleet.
This has had a positive impact on leasing operating margins.
Rising railcar prices extended production backlogs and favorable lease renewal trends are creating an environment that supports further increases in lease renewals rates.
We expect this trend to continue on existing railcars during tight supply and new railcar production backlog remain extended.
The secondary market remains active to the sale of lease railcars.
During the second quarter of 2012 we sold another group of lease railcars from our portfolio.
We expect additional lease portfolio sales during the next few quarters assuming conditions continue to support in active secondary market.
In summary near-term railcar market conditions remain favorable driven in large part by demand from oil and gas production activities chemical market expansion and increasing automotive production.
We continue to see steady all linked quarters.
We will enter 2013 with the strong order backlog.
During the second quarter we saw meaningful improvements in our operating leverage.
As we continue through 2012 our operations’ team will remain focused on improving efficiencies while keeping production levels stable.
I’m confident that we can successfully execute our plans to transition our production footprint to meet strong market demand to serve the oil gas and chemical industries and position TrinityRail to capitalize on attractive market opportunities through 2013 and into 2014.
We expect to continue to see the benefits of a strong lease pricing environment in an active secondary market supporting lease portfolio sales.
I’ll now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Bill and Steve’s remarks helps sum up our financial results of our business groups during the second quarter.
Therefore my second quarter comments will be high level principally related to the company’s outlook for the second half of 2012.
As we reported yesterday we had second quarter revenue growth of 45% and net income growth of 126% as compared to the same period last year.
This continues the trend of significant growth as we target markets in the industries that our business has served.
The operating leverage we have achieved represented by a companywide operating margin of 15.1% in the second quarter is a reflection of our season’s leadership dedicated employees and the flexibilities that Trinity has within its manufacturing footprint.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1.7 million shares of our common stock in the open market that accounts to $41 million.
We have $159 million of remaining availability under our share repurchase authorization for 2012.
During the second quarter we also announced a 22 increase in our dividend to $0.11 per share.
This increased dividend is tabled next week to shareholders of record on July 13th.
These actions demonstrate our commitment to returning capital to shareholders who will continue to evaluate future dividend and share repurchase actions on a regular basis comparing them to other investment alternatives.
At quarter end our unrestricted cash totaled $294 million.
When this cash is combined with the available capacity under our corporate revolver and our leasing warehouse facility we have $832 million of available liquidity at the end of the quarter.
We are well positioned to capitalize on investment opportunities as they arise.
I will now turn to the outlook for the second half of 2012.
As we mentioned in the press release yesterday due to the imprecise timing of a number of variables we are providing second half guidance for 2012 rather than quarterly guidance.
We now expect earnings for the second half to be between $1.45 and $1.60 per share.
Combined with our strong results for the first half of the year we now expect full year 2012 earnings per common diluted share of between $2.95 and $3.10 compared to the previous full year guidance of between $2.55 and $2.70 that we provided on our earnings conference call in April.
This earnings outlook compares favorably to the $1.65 of earnings per common diluted share that we reported for the full year 2011 after the $0.12 adjustment for flood-related gains.
We are in the process of repositioning a portion of our production capacity to align with continuing strong demand primarily for product serving oil gas and chemical industries.
This transition is currently underway in several facilities and is expected to be complete by year end.
The associated costs incurred during the second half of the year for repositioning a portion of our production capacity to meet this demand are expected to be approximately $0.8 to $0.10 per share and they were included in our second half guidance.
Our businesses have historically performed well when experiencing long production runs of consistent products.
We are very optimistic about Trinity’s position as we prepared to enter 2013.
We expect our Rail Group to deliver between 8 745 and 9 745 railcars in the second half of 2012.
We expect this to result in second half revenues of between $1 billion and $1.1 billion and an operating margin of between 9% and 11% for the group inclusive of the previously mentioned costs associated with repositioning our production capacity.
Included in the second half earnings guidance is between $0.17 and $0.22 per common diluted share of net profit from sales of railcars from the lease fleet.
At this point the secondary market remains receptive to sales from the fleet and we will continue to seek opportunities to conduct such transactions.
The second half earnings guidance includes deliveries of railcars to the leasing company that will result in revenue elimination of between $290 million and $310 million and net profit elimination of between $0.20 and $0.26 per share after taking into account the proceeds from railcar sales from the lease fleet.
We now expect our net leasing capital expenditures to be between $140 million and $170 million for the second half of 2012.
For the first six months of 2012 we reported approximately $0.18 per common diluted share from railcar sales from the lease fleet.
For the first six months we reported revenue and net profit eliminations from railcar deliveries to our lease fleet of $255 million and $0.19 per share respectively.
For the first six months of the year net leasing capital expenditures were approximately $122 million.
Inland Barge revenues are expected to be between $320 million and $340 million for the second half of the year with margins of between 16% and 18%.
The guidance assumes healthy margins for this group and is comparable with levels we reported in the first quarter.
We will continue to evaluate market conditions as we deploy capital to promote the growth of our businesses.
Our current 2012 business plan includes capital expenditures of between $130 million and $150 million in our manufacturing businesses which encompasses capital investments we're making to reposition a portion of our production capacity to meet demand.
The results for the second half will be influenced by multiple factors including the amount of operating leverage that our Rail and Barge businesses can achieve the costs associated with repositioning a portion of our production capacity the level of sales of railcars from the leasing portfolio the amount of profit eliminations from railcar additions to our leasing group and the impact of weather conditions on our Construction Products businesses.
I’ll close by reiterating that we're pleased with the company’s performance in the second quarter.
As we look to the second half of 2012 we are focused on delivering solid operating results while at the same time repositioning a portion of our production capacity to respond to strong demand for products which serve the oil gas and chemical industries.
As we enter 2013 with a strong order backlog Trinity will be well-positioned to take advantage of additional opportunities in the markets we serve.
We have a season team of business leaders and our balance sheet that can support investment in our business platforms for future revenue and earnings growth.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll first go to Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
On the production news remind me where some of those wind facilities actually -- didn’t they used to make tank cars and are we starting some business today so we could see more in the Q3 versus Q4 just trying to get a sense a little bit more there? Okay.
Steve you want to take that one? I guess the answer to that is yes.
When we saw the railcar market decrease several years ago we were successful in converting several of our plans to produce wind towers.
And fortunately now we have the operating flexibility to go back the other way.
Okay.
Great.
And then I guess just one for you as well Steve.
You’ve just given the prevalence of the tank car orders how are you guys viewing that market? Are there concerns that this last quarterly order could be hit for a while how are we looking at that right now? We are continuing to see strong demand in our order inquiries for those cars to serve the oil and gas and chemical industries.
And I think we really see this concentration of tank car orders as a real opportunity.
We don’t think it could have come at a better time for us.
We know the tank car product line very well and we have competencies to produce this car type and have volume the substantial demand that we are seeing we are well positioned for.
And with the sluggish freight car market in the downturn in the wind tower industry we are able to demonstrate our flexibility by capturing the market and making the shift.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
We’ll now take our next question from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please go ahead.
I want to drill down a little more detail on the accelerating demand that we see in tank car markets across the industry.
Can you give us some directional insight into how much of the recent strength is from -- improved by rail versus users in a more traditional chemicals end markets? Yeah Bascome.
This is Steve.
Certainly the oil and gas market is driving a significant part of the demand.
But I think its important to recognize that we are starting to also see the ripple effect of those energy products in other chemical production as well as some dry chemical production for instance plastics and resins.
So this I think has a longer sustainability as a ripple effects of abundant oil and gas becomes available and we see the steel products and others expand.
And gets to sort of explain on that there is a lot of that the link capacity coming online.
We are talking billions of dollars investment and say that 2014 2017 timeframe.
And I think that’s long way out but the line for tank car is also pretty well at this point.
I am curious so you’re having conversations about orders that far out with customers at this point? I think our customers had to making adjustment in some of the capital planning activities recognizing the extended backlog on tank cars.
And we are having conversations with customer about a potential orders in the 2014 and '15 timeframe yes.
All right guys.
Thanks for the time this morning.
From Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Go ahead please? Good morning everybody.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
I had a couple of questions.
Let me just rail them off and you can respond.
Number one on your lease renewals how to they compare to the GATX LPI index which saw their renewals up about 23%.
Secondly as I look at your backlog it’s little over 30 000.
It seems like 14 000 to 15 000 might be oriented towards 2013 production.
Can you make some comments on that? And thirdly the last couple of quarters there has been a discussion by all the railcar makers of broadening of demand.
There was not that discussion I heard the words I think you wanted to communicate on that.
Certainly you mentioned a ramp up of auto production but could you speak to the broadness we all saw the Q2 order numbers but is the broadness of the order book going away now for an extended period of time what was that limited to Q2? Thank you.
Yeah.
That was good Tom.
Thanks.
This is Steve.
Yeah.
First of all on lease renewals I won’t give a specific comment about GATX’s index are comparative.
But clearly we are seeing a very favorable lease renewal trends.
Again a high percentage of our lease fees are renewing their contracts that has a positive impact on our operating margins with lower marketing expenses and then minimizing out of service time.
But this is indeed a very favorable time in lease pricing in particular with renewals and extended production backlogs.
As far as the breadth of the market we’ve talked about expanding chemical industry which drives demand beyond the crude oil cars of the accrued by rail trend that we are seeing.
And it also drives demand in the covered hopper cars for dry chemical products and resins.
I also want to point out.
We’re seeing strong demand in the automotive market and with projections for automotive production by independent forecast is many as $15 million to $16 million in the 2013 2014 timeframe.
I guess lastly with respect to the breadth of the market.
This railcar market shifts from time-to-time.
And I think our operating flexibility allow us to be prepared for what might be the next shift is that when that comes and this history bears out we’re certainly see another shift down the road again.
And I think we are well-positioned to take advantage of that when it happens.
Steve how about [Mighty Leaf] description of the backlog relative to next year’s production? Yeah.
We’re not in position today to talk about 2013.
We’ll do that in subsequent conference calls.
But clearly we’re seeing demand that pushing into 2013 and we even have orders now pushing into 2014.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Go ahead please? Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Congrats on a quarter.
This is Derek Rabe for Art.
Just piggy back on some of the earlier questions I was just wondering if you could provide us with kind of a picture of how much capacity is coming back due to tank production landscape for you guys from the conversion from the wind tower business.
And then just taking a broader perspective look at it can you just give us idea of how many idle plants you guys still have out there that you could possibly bring online if demand were to pick up significantly from here? This is Tim responding to that.
As far as our ideal capacity and shifting of the production and providing units and quantities that we will have in our various facilities.
We don’t provide that information.
We remain very flexible.
So we can shift production and balance it with demand levels and our people as I said are doing a fabulous job of going through various transitions.
This isn’t the first transition that we have been through in the last several years.
We have been almost in a state of constant transition of flexing our facilities.
We have some facilities to go partial ideal and we have some that go ideal.
And then we have some that convert from one product back to another.
So it’s a fairly complicated metrics.
But we’ve got some very season people that support the decisions to pursue the demand level like they are.
And it’s a truly amazing inside to watch this happen with this organization.
It’s a fabulous group of people that provide support.
Okay.
Thanks of the color there.
Just wanted to switch gears to energy business.
We saw the margin come back so it’s a profitability.
I think sooner than we expected how sustainable are those positive margins in the next couple of quarters.
And can you just talk to any headwinds that you see out there I mean obviously the wind tower businesses is pretty weak? Bill you want to take that? Yeah.
Sure Derek.
As I made note in my comments earlier I see opportunity from improved profitability over the back half of the year.
So obviously I am optimistic.
We’ve made the significant changes in the product.
And we’ve got a good run of product run into the facility right now and the team is doing a great job.
So I think back half can be better than the last quarter.
Going forward the exploration of the PTC is going to create a challenge.
And so as I said my comments we’re working to with our customer to come up with the production rate for 2013 to make sense.
And then to the extent that we have the ideal capacity and rail groups got the demand for we will make those ships.
Okay.
Good.
Just a couple of house-keeping items can you guys talk to the -- what was behind or what was the driver behind the lower corporate expense and then also the gain in the other rail or the other net lined whether a sale of property there or can you just talk about what the drivers were?  Yeah Derek.
And then our 10-Q we’ve talked about as you will.
This is James Derek.
In our 10-Q we talked about within those line items that all other includes a lot of things our logistics company that’s all we have our non-operating plans.
So as we have environmental legal non-operating shift types of things are in there.
Our captive insurance company is in there.
So the operations of the business grow as they are right now with the substantial pick up in demand and production that we’ve had.
If the items quarter-to-quarter move through those lines that are kind of unique to specific quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to line of Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Go ahead please.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to drill down little more on the expectations for railcar sales within your lease business.
I heard it $0.20 to $0.22 number baked into the guidance.
Is that -- that's for the second half or per quarter?  James? All the guidance that we provided in the second half number what we’ve talked about in the sales to lease fleet during the second half just $0.20 to $0.26 on a profit elimination.
I am sorry that’s the sales to lease fleet.
The gains of lease fleet to $0.17 to $0.22.
I think you said $0.20 to $0.22.
Okay.
So the number is $0.17 to $0.22 and again that’s for the second half.
For the second half of the year that’s correct.
Okay.
So it’s coming down a little.
If we just divide it in half versus what you guys did in 2Q.
Can you provide a little bit more color as to why you accelerated the rate of railcar sales? Was it just very attractive price and potential return on those specific cars and maybe talk to what cars were specific result and any additional color would be helpful? Thanks.
Sure Matt.
This is James.
I’ll pick up and we had $0.18 in the first half of the year.
We’re looking at $0.17 to $0.22 the back half of the year.
So we’re expecting a nice sustainable level of opportunity for us as we’ve talked about as we go through quarter-to-quarter we see opportunities.
We have now large lease fleet and having a lease fleet of in access of 70 000 cars give us those opportunities to seek diversification to seek the opportunity still liquidity back in the business and reinvest in new railcars.
And it’s a mix of product types and car types as we look at what we sell any given quarter.
In terms of the opportunity ahead of us as we said the market is still receptive to those.
We continue to have discussions and as we have entourage for certain car types.
We look at the price and the returns that offers our business.
And again as we look at the mix and diversification those types of transactions all for us and that’s a good -- it’s a good transaction for us to execute.
Okay.
Understood.
Within energy equipment we hear there is a transition away from production that those wind tower facilities I think you have roughly four if I am correct.
Its sound like some of those wind tower production facilities are already or will be in the near-term be producing railcars at this point in time.
If we gain into a scenario where the tax credit expires and there is a very weak demand for wind towers hopefully just a temporary situation but if this is a case are you able to backfill and use those four facilities to produce just railcars or would there be something that wouldn’t teach you from being able to do so? This is Tim.
When we have plants that don’t have orders we didn’t kind of put them up for grabs and all of our businesses are looking at them.
And it depends on what the product mix might be at that time and demand levels of our various businesses.
And then we have conversations pertaining to the returns on shifting the business.
So there is not a standard formula and there is not a standard plan that we go through.
Its all tie to opportunistic situations of demand levels in the market.
Okay.
So I guess it’s -- kind of case-by-case scenario but I’m just thinking you have really nice strong demand in the near-term and likely over the next couple of years for tank cars and some of the covered hoppers and other car types.
And potentially if we do get into a scenario of temporarily very weak demand for wind towers you’re able to utilize those fixed assets and get return on the fixed cost side of it.
Within the construction group if we look at the highway bill that was passed earlier in July.
Where do you see the most opportunity? Is there anyway to potentially quantify the amount of that opportunity within the construction group and maybe the timing if you could do so? Yeah.
Matt this is Bill.
From a timing perspective in my comments I talked about really being more of a 2013 2014 situation.
I’m hopeful that it comes little sooner than that.
But the construction season is upon us and it’s a little late for engineers to be planning projects and have those projects on the table.
The bill itself was a nice bill.
Funding was consistent with the funding in the past obviously it was 28 months.
It did have some special emphasis on highway safety products which is a market place that Trinity participates in and the budget for those products was raised.
So we’re hopeful that the bill itself brings us good market conditions over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you for the time.
Thank you Matt.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll now go to Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Go ahead please.
Agee</strong> Good morning all.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Agee</strong> Just a few quick questions maybe we could start on barge.
You gave barge guidance.
I think that was 16% to 18% for the second half in terms of margin.
And in your comments you mentioned that for the second quarter that some of the increase in the profit on the barge side was from some specialty barges.
So how do we think about that in terms of that you did 21% margin in 2Q and that steps down.
It’s called 300 basis points or so? Is it fair to say that some or all of that 300 basis points step down is due to specialty barge product that you sold? Yeah Sal.
This is Bill.
From the margin perspective and the 300 basis points that you’re talking about as we said the specialty order was a big contributor to that.
In addition I cited that the general mix of barges and the long production runs that we have at particular barge types were favorable to Trinity as well.
So those two items together combined for the vast majority of that improvement.
So we had a really strong quarter and 16% to 18% is a nice place to get back to in this business.
And so we’re working from down right.
Agee</strong> Okay.
But thinking ahead beyond the second half can we think about the number being closer to say 27% level? Well James has provided you the guidance of 16% to 18%.
So we’re not going to….
Agee</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Okay.
If I could just switch gears over to the railcar side if I look at the -- just starting from an industry perspective in terms of the tank car orders maybe looking at last five quarters or so.
They’ve generally been in the range of call it 5 000 to 7 000.
And then in 2Q they pretty much double to about 13 700 which is great.
I’m just trying to get a sense for -- how many orders whether that really drove that? I mean was it pretty broad based or was it just based on some specific customer orders that were on the larger side.
And then from your perspective in particular can you give us sense for what percentage of the orders that you obtained? Sal this is Steve.
I would say there is certainly some large orders in the mix.
Those are small orders.
And then tank car orders range from 5 cars for an order and can be a thousand cars for orders.
So all points in between I would generally describe it as being fairly broad and I would expect that trend to continue.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one last question on the covered hopper side that’s pretty much printed in converse of the tank car side.
You’ve seen that the orders there industry wide have pretty much dried up over the last couple of quarters which make sense consistent with what you’ve been saying over the last conference call last two conference calls.
Can you give us an update on when you see that starting to pick up with natural gas prices coming back a little bit now? Sure.
And I’m sure you read a lot of the same analysis that I read and really I think what drives drilling and exploration is the price of gas.
We see that start to stay north of $3 and approach $4.
We probably start to see drilling for dry gas to resume.
Keep in mind that the fracs and propanes are also used for wet gas and for oil exploration as well.
And pricing that has been a little bit more stable.
We put a lot of cars into the marketplace to serve that part of the industry.
It does take some time for those cars to be absorbed.
And I think generally we’re thinking there might be recovery there in the first half of 2013.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one last question on the pricing side if I look at the per car -- if I look at the value of your backlog on a per car basis that’s up about some thing like 11% sequentially I believe.
I understand some of that’s going to be mixed.
Can you maybe try to segment that 11% increase between mix and pure price.
Any color you can provide on pure price would be helpful? Yeah.
I mean it’s always difficult to generalize about pricing.
Clearly the mix of cars that were now taking orders for a higher value cars and also the cost of steel the specialty steel that’s used in the manufacture of railcars and the steel components have also experienced significant price increase has resulted in the corresponding increase in the price of the railcar.
So the increases you’re seeing are really driven both by supply and demand dynamics as well as by component and steel costs.
Agee</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Go ahead please.
Hey just to follow up on the wind towers.
So given the fact that your press release used a plural word plants can we assume that by maybe year end that the amount of plants dedicated to wind is going to be maybe as little as one.
And then secondly in rebound in energy revenue sequentially in year-over-year I know some of this will be in the 10-Q but was that driven mostly by non-wind recovery revenues? Tom this is Tim.
I don’t think we’re in a position right now because Bill said he has had a conversation with a customer to really -- we really can’t say whether we’re going to have one or two plants involved with wind right? Absolutely.
Absolutely.
So a little uncertainty around that right now Tom as I said in my comments railcar piling into the third quarter.
On the revenue side the revenues that are non-wind tower businesses within the energy equipment were better and in particular on the container side had a bit of that on the storage container side consistent with kind of oil and gas [trading] within Trinity right now.
So that’s an opportunity for growth as well.
Okay.
That’s good color.
That still helps me enough to articulate that folks.
So thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll now take our next question from Mike Baudendistel with Stifel Nicolaus.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
You stated some competitive pressures in the highway products business.
Did you remind us kind of who your competitors are there in and is that for the highway guard rail business specifically? Yeah.
I’m not probably going to cite the individual competitor.
There is a lot of private companies in the business particularly on the domestic basis.
We do participate internationally as well.
So that broadens the number of customer and that remains across the board.
The market has been a little competitive little soft.
I think it mostly states inability to plan for a long-term basis and so the product tends to be focus more towards the commodity based product a little lower value product and not to the higher end high value products for Trinity.
So we’re hopeful that the two-year bill will improve those conventions.
And we set up very well the to compete in this market where it is Bill from a cost standpoint what do you say? Absolutely.
We competed in the stronger market and the softer market as well.
Our plants in operations are doing a great job there keeping those competitive.
Great.
And then another question on the wind towers a assume that there is a large -- it sounds like there is a large decline in revenue activity there that you’re going to try to transition the facilities to other things.
If you’re unable to do that in sort of the facilities or more or less idle.
Can you give us a sense for how much of those costs are variable versus fixed and sort of how much overhead there would be as a percentage of the loss revenue? Sure Mike.
This is James.
It’s hard to pinpoint that right now as we talked about we have a lot of manufacturing flexibility.
I think as we look as we move into 2013 if there’s demand decline as we have some expectation and we look at repositioning a portion of that production capacity as Tim mentioned.
We’re very good at that and our teams are doing a good job at that.
So I think it’s too early to make those type of forecast in terms of fixed and variable overhead and those type of things without understanding what other products within our company we may be able to put into those facilities if we want to have such a change.
Okay.
Great.
And then just final one on the transition of some of these facilities from wind towers to tank cars its sounds like you have some extra cost.
Is there incremental capital you are required as well? Do you have all the equipment that you need to do that? Yeah.
This is James.
We mentioned that $0.08 to $0.10 that we expect for the second half of the year and that’s the expense side.
We did during the quarter from the last conference call update our capital expenditures guidance and we took that up about $20 million and the majority of that is in the relation to -- opportunities we see in oil gas and chemical industries inclusive of the types of things we’ve talked about in this production capacity ships.
Okay.
Great.
This is very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And it appears we have no further question at this time.
I’ll now turn the conference back over to our presenters for closing remarks.
That concludes today’s conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1 o’clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on August 2 2012.
The access number is 402-220-0121.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Good day and welcome to the Trinity Industries Inc.
third quarter results conference call.
Currently all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there’ll be an opportunity to ask questions during the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Please be advised today’s program is being recorded.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performances.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change of any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
Ms.
Peck you may begin.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries third quarter 2012 results conference call.
I am Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Group; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
Our businesses performed well during the third quarter.
We continue to see consistent demand for products that transport and store crude oil and other liquids related to the energy industry.
During the third quarter we made good progress repositioning a portion of our production capacity to pursue these market opportunities.
Once we complete our repositioning we will be better equipped to serve our customers and generate operating leverage.
We’re in the final stages of this repositioning.
We continue to evaluate investments across our businesses to enhance our manufacturing flexibility.
During the third quarter we entered into agreement to purchase three facilities with heavy steel manufacturing capacity at a very attractive valuation.
These facilities are capable of producing many of our products.
Based on our current integration plans we anticipate that one of these may be used for railcar production and a second one for manufacturing storage containers in support our energy equipment group.
We are also opportunistically investing capital into some of our factories to expand manufacturing capacity in order to obtain incremental orders for products that layer on top of existing long-term production runs.
This type of available capacity typically generates pricing leverage and provides an accelerated payback on the capital invested.
The backlogs for our railcar and barge businesses totaled $3.9 billion at the end of the third quarter.
The size of these backlogs gives our business leaders production visibility into 2014 for products that serve the oil gas and chemicals market.
We are in the early stages of extended production runs for these products.
Our businesses perform well when these conditions are present.
Trinity’s railcar leasing and management services group continued to produce solid results during the third quarter securing strong lease renewals and making attractive investments in new railcars that serve our customers.
Our leasing company also continued to generate profit during the quarter from sales of railcars from the lease fleet.
Our energy equipment group is moving in the right direction.
I’m pleased with the way this group continued to improve profits during the third quarter.
As part of the repositioning during the quarter we began shipping excess wind tower manufacturing capacity to railcar production.
The company’s balance sheet remains in great shape and our overall financial position is strong.
We’re well positioned to capitalize on opportunities for growth in the industries we serve and to benefit from our extended production backlogs.
Our competency and manufacturing flexibility allows us to continuously shift production to meet the level of demand for our products.
Overall our third quarter performance reflects the strengths of our diversified industrial manufacturing expertise our commitment to operational excellence and the talents and hard work of our people.
I will now turn it over to Bill McWhirter for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Our construction products group produced an operating profit of $12.7 million during the third quarter of 2012.
This is a $5.1 million decline from the same quarter a year ago.
The decline is primarily attributable to a soft highway products market driven by the lack of a federal highway bill.
We are anticipating that the new federal highway bill Map 21 will provide a stable environment for planning and funding of highway projects.
Clearly economic uncertainty continues to have the potential to impact individual states’ ability to provide matching funds.
An encouraging data point is the increased activity in the housing market.
A pickup in the residential construction in the markets that we serve should have a positive effect on demand for our concrete and aggregate products.
Moving to our energy equipment group.
In the third quarter this group continued to make significant progress posting an operating profit of $9.5 million.
From a planning perspective there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the future of wind tower demand as the production tax credit seems likely to expire.
We are in the final stages of discussions with our customer to determine the appropriate rate of production for 2013 based on the status of the PTC and overall market demand.
Our expectation is that demand will be lower than our current production rate.
We are making the necessary adjustments by transitioning some of our wind tower manufacturing plants to other Trinity product lines but will remain flexible to adjust our production as the market dictates.
We will provide more color at the year-end earnings call.
Finally I’ll close with our inland barge group.
During the third quarter our barge business reported an operating profit of $26.9 million.
Our barge team did a great job during the quarter of bringing in $162 million of new orders and delivering $166 million worth of barges.
The effects of Hurricane Isaac while minor cost us about 70 basis points in operating profit margin.
At quarter’s end our barge backlog remained stable at $537 million.
From a market demand perspective we continue to have mixed conditions.
The dry cargo market continues to show weakness as a result of the reduction in domestic coal usage and the poor grain harvest.
We are aggressively pursuing new orders but many of our customers remain on the sidelines at this time.
On a positive note the increased movement of petroleum and chemical products created a robust market for tank barges.
We currently have tank barge orders into 2014.
While our hopper barge plants can produce limited sizes of tank barges it is not currently cost effective to convert them to produce larger tank barges.
We will continue to analyze the situation and make adjustments as appropriate.
We are however in the process of a modest capital improvement in one of our tank barge plants.
We expect it will increase production in 2013 and 2014.
Overall I continue to be pleased with the performance of our business unit teams.
At this time I’ll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill good morning.
North American railcar demand continues to be steady driven by demand for railcars to support the oil gas and chemical industry.
We are also experiencing steady demand for railcars to support the automotive sector and fertilizer industries.
Industry orders for new cars during the third quarter totaled 15 150 railcars the eighth consecutive quarter of industry demand exceeding 10 000 cars.
This is quite impressive considering the weak economic growth the North American economy is experiencing.
Trinity Rail received orders during the third quarter for 4 865 new railcars bringing our total backlog to 31 330 railcars.
This results in a 6% increase in the dollar value of our railcar order backlog from the prior quarter to an all time high of $3.3 billion.
Many of our third quarter orders extend current production of certain railcar types into 2014.
Third quarter orders were primarily for tank and covered hopper railcars and came from industrial shippers and third party leasing companies.
Approximately 23% of the units in our order backlog are for customers of our leasing business.
Third quarter operating results from the railcar group reflect a repositioning of our production footprint and major line changeovers.
Operating profit for the rail group during the quarter totaled $35.2 million a 34% decline when compared to the second quarter of 2012 but a 94% increase over the same quarter of 2011.
These results reflect fewer deliveries due to line changeovers during the quarter and as anticipated and discussed during our second quarter call also included costs associated with our repositioning.
Our repositioning enhances our operating flexibility to meet steady demand for railcars to transport crude oil and other liquids related to the energy industry.
The line changeovers were to position us to increase production of railcars to serve the automotive industry.
These actions will enable Trinity rail to produce a more favorable railcar mix in 2013 and 2014 and to be better positioned to respond to future market demand.
We delivered 4 145 railcars during the third quarter compared to the 3 605 railcars we delivered in the third quarter of 2011 and 5 245 railcars in the second quarter of 2012.
While our unit deliveries were down sequentially the per unit value of each railcar delivered increased by 11% reflecting a more favorable product mix and pricing environment.
We are now positioned to produce operating margins in the fourth quarter closer to what we experienced during the first half of the year.
As we move into 2013 we expect to operate at production levels consistent with planned fourth quarter output.
We will continue to evaluate further investment opportunities to enhance select production capacity to meet customer demand.
For the year 2012 we are now projecting delivery of between 19 150 and 19 650 new railcars which implies a production increase of 15% to 25% in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
Our leasing group reported a 33% increase in operating profit compared to the third quarter of 2011 due principally to a larger lease fleet higher lease renewal rates and profit from leased portfolio sales.
Lease rate and lease renewal trends continue to remain very favorable.
We added 1 405 new railcars to our wholly owned lease fleet during the third quarter.
We also sold another group of lease railcars from our portfolio during the quarter as the secondary market remained strong for the sale of leased railcars.
We expect additional lease portfolio sales during the next few quarters given the continuation of current conditions.
These activities bring our total lease fleet including trip to approximately 71 300 railcars up slightly compared to the lease fleet at the end of the second quarter 2012.
Lease fleet utilization remained at 99% Lease renewal trends continue to be favorable due to strong demand for certain railcar types with extended production lead times.
This is coinciding with the expiration of a number of leases we transacted during the recessionary period of 2008 to 2010.
Many of the leases executed during the recessionary period were at low lease rates due to the market environment at the time.
Current market conditions are now supporting the renewal of these leases with longer lease terms at significantly higher lease rates.
This positions our leasing company for greater returns during the next few years.
We expect this trend to continue while existing railcars are in tight supply and new railcar production backlogs remain extended.
In summary oil and gas production activities and chemical market expansion are driving railcar demand.
We continue to see steady railcar inquiries during the fourth quarter on pace with third quarter order levels.
We expect to enter 2013 with a strong order backlog with certain production lines extending into 2014.
As we complete the repositioning of our production footprint and line changeovers we expect extended production runs of a consistent and more favorable product mix will yield improved operating efficiencies.
Our operations team will remain focused on improving efficiency while keeping production levels stable.
The repositioning of our production footprint will enable Trinity Rail to meet strong market demand to serve the oil gas and chemical industries and capitalize on attractive market opportunities through 2013 into 2014.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to make selective investment in our facilities to enhance production and to position Trinity Rail to compete on the basis of railcar availability.
When we make selective investments in our facilities to meet customer we can exert pricing leverage and realize superior returns on our investments.
As example since the end of the third quarter we were able to obtain a very large order at excellent pricing levels because of our ability to make investment to enhance production and meet the customer’s delivery requirements.
Our ability to provide premium delivery was key to receiving this order.
We expect to continue to see the benefits of a strong leasing environment and an active secondary market supporting lease portfolio sales.
I will now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we reported third quarter revenue growth of 19% and earnings per share growth of 100% compared to the same period last year.
This continues a trend of significant growth as our businesses focus on manufacturing production capacity to meet market demand for products serving the oil gas and chemical industries.
Our third quarter performance reflects the dedication of our employees and their ability to flex our manufacturing footprint in response to the dynamic demand for specific products.
The third quarter results also reflect the ongoing strength of our railcar leasing business.
We’re now in the final phase of repositioning a portion of our productive capacity to align with continuing strong demand for products serving the oil gas and chemical industries.
The cost associated with this repositioning in the third quarter totaled $0.05 per share and are reflected within our rail group’s operating results.
In addition to the repositioning costs we had product line changeovers in our rail group during the third quarter.
This led to operating inefficiencies and a lower level of deliveries in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
We are anticipating improved fourth quarter financial results for the rail group and I will provide more details in a moment.
We remain well positioned to capitalize on investment opportunities as they arise.
At quarter end our unrestricted cash totaled $312 million.
When this cash is combined with the available capacity under our credit facilities we had more than $750 million of available liquidity at the end of the quarter.
I will now discuss the outlook for the remainder of 2012.
As a reminder when we provided guidance in July it was for the final six months of the year rather than by quarter.
This was due to timing uncertainties around our production repositioning and line changeovers to meet market demand for the oil gas and chemicals industries.
For the fourth quarter we expect earnings to be between $0.78 and $0.85 per share resulting in full year earnings of between $3.08 and $3.15 per share.
Our previous full year guidance provided in July anticipated EPS of between $2.95 and $3.10.
Our new earnings outlook reflects growth of between 87% and 91% over our 2011 results after a $0.12 adjustment for flood-related gains last year.
In the rail group we expect to deliver between 4 750 and 5 250 railcars returning to the production levels experienced prior to the third quarter.
This will bring total deliveries to between 19 150 and 19 650 railcars for the full year.
This guidance for full year railcar delivery remains in line with what we previously projected.
We expect fourth quarter revenues for the rail group of between $550 million and $600 million and an operating margin of between 9% and 11% as we regain operating leverage from a higher level of production.
This margin guidance includes $0.04 to $0.05 per share of repositioning cost.
Including the $0.05 of repositioning cost from the third quarter we remain in line with our prior guidance for the rail group.
Our fourth quarter earnings guidance includes deliveries of railcars to the leasing company that will result in revenue elimination of $100 million and $110 million with a net profit elimination of between $0.09 and $0.11 per share.
Profit eliminations for the third quarter and year-to-date accounted for $0.11 and $0.29 per share respectively.
Also included in the fourth quarter guidance is between $0.07 and $0.12 per share of net profit from the sale of railcars from the lease fleet.
This compares to $0.17 per share in the third quarter and $0.34 per share year-to-date.
The secondary market for fleet sales remains strong and we continue to seek opportunities to conduct similar transactions.
Through the first nine months of the year we made a net investment in the lease fleet of approximately $150 million and we expect our net leasing investment to be between $60 million and $70 million for the fourth quarter after taking into account the proceeds from railcar sales from the lease fleet.
Cash generation from car sales during the third quarter and year-to-date were $84 million and $195 million respectively.
Inland barge revenues are expected to be between $160 million and $170 million for the fourth quarter with margins of between 16% and 18%.
Our tax rate in the third quarter was lower than our historical average rate primarily due to the release of certain tax reserves or statute of limitations in the impacted states had lapsed and favorable non-taxable foreign currency translation adjustments.
We expect the tax rate in the fourth quarter to be approximately 37%.
Full year manufacturing capital expenditure for 2012 are expected to be between $120 million and $140 million.
These figures include the capital investments we are making to reposition and expand our production capacity to meet market demand.
They also include the previously announced asset purchase of three facilities from DMI Industries.
One of these facilities was purchased in the third quarter and we expect that the remaining two facilities will be purchased and integrated during the fourth quarter subject to the terms of the agreement.
We are continuing to evaluate market conditions as we deploy capital to promote the growth of our businesses.
Our results for the fourth quarter will be influenced by multiple factors including the amount of operating leverage that our rail business can achieve; the cost associated with repositioning a portion of our production capacity; the level of sales of railcars from the leasing portfolio; the amount of profit eliminations from railcar additions to our leasing group; and the impact of weather conditions on our construction products businesses.
In summary during the third quarter we incurred certain expenses and made investments in our businesses that we believe will enhance our long term profitability.
As we look to the end of the year we remain focused on delivering solid operating results while repositioning a portion of our production capacity.
Our strong order backlogs give us good visibility when developing our production plans and we are well positioned to take advantage of additional opportunities in the markets we serve during 2013.
We will provide financial guidance for 2013 on our next earnings conference call in February.
We continue to assess our markets and will make further enhancements to our manufacturing footprint if necessary to maximize our financial returns.
Our ability to adjust to market conditions by repositioning our production capacity integrating acquired businesses and facilities and opportunistically investing in production capacity gives us an optimistic outlook for 2013.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question and answer session.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions).
We will first go to the site of Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just going back to the deliveries in the quarter – and I know you mentioned there were some line changes or something.
Was that the only impact for the declining deliveries this quarter? Was there some mix issue there? Because I’m assuming the repositioning was still going on into this quarter right? Steve you want to take that? Yeah.
Good morning Allison.
The line changeovers were the principal drivers in the reduction in the number of units.
And as we transition our product mix I think it’s important to realize that the number of hours that goes into building say a tank care compared to a covered hopper car is significantly greater.
So as we do transition our production we do end up seeing some decrease in volume output while consuming the same number of labor hours.
But again we expect to recover those units in the fourth quarter.
Great.
And then going to the highway products business the Map 21 bill is it right to assume that we probably won’t really see a benefit of this until 2013 once the funds start flowing a little bit better? Bill? Yeah Allison.
I think in the last call we talked about 2013 and in particular the construction season of 2013.
So obviously we’re headed into the winter months right now and I don’t think you’ll much of an effect but we’re hopeful 2013 hopeful the states have the funds to match those funds.
Great.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll now go to the site of Eric Crawford with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about how the customer reception’s been to your increased tank car capacity.
Have customers begun filling the new slots or have existing customers paid up to receive earlier delivery? Steve? Yeah.
Good morning Eric.
I think generally thus far what we’ve done is try to match capacity increases with production orders.
So typically we’ve been receiving orders based upon our operating flexibility our ability to enhance production and then taking those orders and putting them into the backlog.
We’ve not brought on capacity that thus far has not been assigned to an order in the near term.
I think customers are very anxious to see us increase capacity and those who have driving needs for that have been willing to pay a premium for that production space and we’re seeing very nice returns and pricing associated with that.
Okay thanks.
And just a point of clarification.
Did I hear correctly that 2013 rail car production is going to match the 4Q run rate implying about 20 000 deliveries next year? At this time we plan to have steady production going into 2013 at the production rate of – at our fourth quarter production rate.
Certainly as we see other investment opportunities to enhance our production and to bring on capacity at the pricing levels we’re looking for we’ll continue to do that selectively.
All right.
Great.
Thanks guys.
And we will next go to the site of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I was hoping you would clarify I think you said that you’ve got a very large order as part of your capacity additions in some of your rail car products after the end of 3Q.
Could you just speak to that or clarify if I misheard you there? No you heard that correctly.
Post the close of the third quarter we were successful in receiving a very large order again based upon our operating flexibility and our ability to enhance production to meet the customer’s delivery requirements.
It worked out very nicely for us and we’re very excited about the order.
Okay.
And turning it to...
a bit towards I guess a higher level question we’ve heard all the rails report their 3Q results by now and a lot of them talked about sequential slowing in their business into 4Q.
But they’re also talking about the improving productivity and their ability to serve their customers more efficiently which should help them turn assets a bit faster.
What if anything can you see this spilling into sort of the demand for rail car or the need for rail car overall keeping sort of the amount of freight in the flat to moving in the mid-single digits range? That’s a good question.
I mean certainly our long term prospects are very much tied to the success of the North American rail industry.
We certainly support them in becoming more efficient more customer friendly and expanding modal share and as that happens in the long term we think we will be the beneficiaries of that.
Certainly an example of a new market for the railroads is the crude oil sector and we’re currently benefiting from rail cars going into that service.
And I think there’ll be other developments for the rails as they create additional capacity through greater efficiencies and more rail cars can actually go into the system.
So long term we’re very optimistic about rails’ ability to expand modal share.
All right guys.
I’ll keep it to that.
Thanks for the time.
We will next go to the site of Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Morning.
Just a couple questions.
Do you – first on demand.
And you had mentioned that you think customers would be buying but they seem to be holding off.
Do you get a sense that some of your customers are just kind of sitting back waiting to see how things play out with regards to the election and how maybe this fiscal cliff gets dealt with and that if that gets dealt with in an appropriate way we may see some pent up demand come in as order kind of late part of this year early part of next year? Yes.
This is Tim Wallace.
I guess you must be talking about in general throughout our businesses and there is a degree of hesitation with the complexity that’s in the political arena right now.
And we’re optimistic that once we get through the next two or three weeks that there will be a sense of clarity and then people can get back to their basic business planning and there’ll be some infrastructure orders placed and that’s really right down our alley.
All right.
Thank you for that.
The other thing is as you add capacity you’ve invested in your lease fleet and you’ve got a lot of capital tied up in that.
How do you balance adding capacity selling cars into the market without kind of doing so in a way that kind of floods the market with excess capacity and then time having a negative impact on the results that may come out of your lease fleet i.e.: lower lease rates if there are excess cars on the market? Just how do you go about thinking about balancing those two aspects of your business? Well – this is Tim and then Steve you can jump on this one – but you’re talking about a very dynamic market and you have customers that for rail cars that come in a number of different areas and we like to have a good mix of sales that comes from sales from our leasing company and then sales right off of our production line.
We look at sales out of our leasing company as kind of an extended sale of rail cars.
We’re in the business of manufacturing rail cars and selling rail cars and to us it really doesn’t matter whether the cars come out of our lease fleet or they come right off the production line.
We like generate revenue and profits off of selling rail cars.
And I don’t Steve you have to – a real delicate situation there it’s just a matter of lining up customers with rail cars isn’t it? It is an encouraging thing in particular with respect to the crude oil market as we’re seeing a number of the refiners and exploration production companies purchasing rail cars making the investment as well.
But you’re right Art there’s a dynamic there.
We see the leasing companies are very active in buying rail cars from us too.
So how we manage that and the insight it gives us into trends in the marketplace are important for us in positioning our production capacity and in looking at lease sales and additions to our lease fleet.
But right now there’s significant investment both from shippers as well as leasing companies in this marketplace and we find that to be very encouraging.
Do you get the sense that – and I have no idea I haven’t seen any of this myself – but are you concerned or have you seen an indication or evidence that maybe with the backlog that’s out there now that maybe there has been some double ordering going on so people are confident they’ll get cars when they come off the line? Good question Art.
I would answer that as no.
I think in some of the announcements by leasing companies they’re indicating that all of their backlog of orders for new cars are placed through 2013 and into 2014; 25% or – approximately our backlog – 23% of our backlog is into leasing.
Everything else is sold to industrial shippers.
So right now I don’t see that speculative fever going on in the marketplace and everything that is being placed for production appears to be leased or has a home when it comes off the production line.
Great.
And thanks for your time today.
And we will next go to the site of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
If I look at the industry backlog data and specifically look at small cube covered hoppers that’s pretty much come down over the last sequentially over the last four quarters gradually to its currently about 1 700 cars.
And again that’s for small cube covered hoppers.
How do we think about how low that backlog starts to get? I mean is it pretty much at the trough level now where you’re going to start to see – it’s going to start to prompt orders to come in with natural gas prices especially having come up recently which might spur some fracking activity? Yeah Sal this is Steve.
Appreciate the question.
Clearly the demand for railcars to support the fracking industry as well as cement and other construction materials has been a little slower the last few quarters.
Some industry experts expect a recovery in fracking activity in the second half for 2013.
Certainly higher natural gas prices would encourage that activity.
And as Bill talked about we would hope that we would see improved construction activity going into 2013 which would also create greater demand for those cars.
So right now we’re really looking towards the second half of next year before we see a recovery in that specific market.
Okay.
And I assume a very small portion of your current backlog is for cars for fracking activities small cube covered hoppers? I don’t have that number at my fingertip but the cars that we have in our backlog have been placed with customers in that market.
Okay.
If I could just switch to the backlog that you have you have 31 300 cars in your backlog and if I understood correctly I think you said that we should expect the 2013 production to approximate your fourth quarter production which the midpoint of it is about 5 000 cars.
So that would imply about 20 000 cars for next year? Well as we start 2013 that’s our intent.
Yes Sal.
Okay.
So then if you have 31 300 cars in your backlog should we assume that the entire 20 000 comes out of that 31 300? Or does some of the 20 000 for next year include orders that are placed early in the year for let’s call it non-tank cars because tank cars have a longer lead time right now? Yeah.
Steve again our backlog extends well beyond 2013.
So for us to maintain that production level we have some unsold cars going into 2013 from certain production lines that we’re going have to sell.
Okay.
And then if I could just switch real quick to your margin guidance well actually first in the third quarter can you pinpoint what the impact to your – whether it’s in dollars or basis points in margin of the line changeovers was? Yeah.
This is James Sal.
And we haven’t pinpointed the line changeover piece.
There’s moving variables when we go through one of those.
We did talk about how the guidance included the repositioning cost of $0.08 to $0.10 back half of a year and we continue to maintain guidance for the back half of the year that’s still within that range when you look at the midpoint of where we’re now.
So we didn’t break down quarter-to-quarter and that’s exactly why we provided six months guidance.
The timing of those changeovers and precise impact was going to be difficult but we’ve given you guidance now for the fourth quarter that’s still within that range that we expect to achieve.
Okay thanks.
And then just the last question.
If – what is the current lead time on a tanker so if a customer tries to place an order today what is the earliest delivery? How many you are ordering Sal? Put me down for as many as you can.
Let’s talk.
I think generally we’re seeing backlogs as long as 18 months for a new tank car.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
And we will next go to the site of Thom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hey everyone.
Thanks for the discussion.
I want to kind of take it at a little different angle here.
So you’re close to being around 20 000 right now but let’s say you got a flood of orders and you could realistically think about doing let’s say 25 000 cars next year.
How comfortable would you be in that kind of a fairly dramatic increase year-over-year? In the past your peak has been 27 000 28 000.
Or do you really prefer to keep it in the low 20s? Thom this is Tim.
It really gets down to return on investment and what the cost is to bring on the extra manufacturing capacity.
And as I said in my remarks we’re constantly looking at all of our businesses when we have long backlogs for opportunistic situations where we can take an order like Steve mentioned we did recently and layer that on top of production we have and then we’ll put in capital investment and that usually gives us a good quick return on the investment.
So it’s hard to just say there’s another 5 000 railcars or X-number of barges or something like that.
We have to kind of look at the customer the relationship where we’re headed the returns – and so there’s a number of factors that go into that decision.
Okay.
And the reason I ask is just with this tepid economic environment just the confidence level to do things that’s where that question originated from.
I also want to ask Tim or Steve as we all try to better understand the tank market your backlog – or perhaps an industry comment – I mean what percentage ballpark of the tank orders seem to be designated for petroleum versus chemical at this juncture? Thom this is Steve.
Clearly the significant demand in the marketplace is for tank cars.
I think there’s a tendency to focus a little too much on crude oil cars because we’re also seeing the ripple effect of the energy renaissance impacting other aspects of the chemical industry.
We’re seen significant demand for high pressure tank cars.
We’re seeing significant demand for tank cars that carry acids that are used in the fracking process.
So really what we’re seeing from the energy sector is a ripple effect into many different types of tank cars going into the chemical sector and we think we’re in the early stages of that and expect that to continue.
But Steve if I try to put words in your mouth maybe a lot of the early momentum was petroleum but now it’s broadening out to chemical and related? I think that would be a fair comment Thom.
Okay.
And then two other things.
So energy there was a brief period James where your comments were cut off for about a minute I don’t know if you commented on that.
It was nice to see it profitable again.
We know the wind tax credit’s going away.
Should we be comfortable with a 6% or 7% margin from here on out? Can you just kind of help us out there? It just it feels like we’re throwing darts on that one.
Yeah Thom this is James.
Yes I did not make any energy comments in my remarks.
And playing off of Bill’s remarks in terms of uncertainty we have we are working with our customer on defining our production for next year.
Obviously the extension or lack thereof of the PTC is a big variable in what to expect next year.
We’re going to be very flexible on being able to have capacity if there is demand beyond what we expect right now but we’re not able to provide margin type guidance given where we are with the moving variables in that group.
Do you think it will be profitable? I mean setting aside whether it’s low margin or high margin I just want to have a positive number in that line item if possible.
Yeah I think we’re optimistic that our team is doing a good job managing and there’s obviously more within the energy group beyond just the wind tower business.
So generally the group’s done a nice job of recovering to a good profit level this quarter versus where we were a year ago or even six or nine months ago.
But again it’s a little too early to get real precise on figures there.
And our containers business is seeing some demand for some of these NGLs these natural gas liquids and things like that.
Okay good.
And Steve as I wrap it up here how big was the order? Was it mostly tanks? And then you guys must be seeing something really bullish to have bought the properties from DMI that maybe you aren’t quite ready to pronounce yet.
So view all that as one question with a couple components.
Steve you answer first and I’ll answer the second.
Okay.
Well I’ll do my best to be nebulous on the answer Thom.
We really don’t comment about specific orders but I think it’s safe to assume that it was an order related to the energy sector and as Tim indicated was an investment we were able to make to layer this order on top of other production we had so it really fit our production model very well and we were very very pleased with the returns the investment would provide.
And the customer was pleased to get capacity.
It’s a real economic advantage for them to be able to take delivery of railcars sooner because it enhances their production model as well.
And Thom this is Tim.
In answer to your question about the purchase of the DMI facilities for years we have always kept our eyes opened for opportunities to acquire heavy manufacturing capacity at valuations that we think is very attractive and this was a classic example of that.
And we like the manufacturing flexibility aspects of it we like the work force that we have come in contact with there the equipment the facilities.
It really fits nicely in our portfolio of manufacturing plants.
Okay.
Well I may ask about that again in the future but thanks very much.
Sure.
And we’ll go next go to the site of Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Wanted to follow up on Thom’s previous question.
If we do get into next year and have somewhat or – somewhat of a better macro backdrop and deliveries are somewhere close to a 25 000 type number do you think you could handle that type of volume with your current manufacturing facility footprint with the wind tower conversions and then the assets that you bought on the DMI side? Or would that type of number do you need to take some of the idle manufacturing capacity back online? Yes this is Tim.
Right now we have a lot of positive momentum going in our occurring in our company as we head towards 2013 and the repositioning activities that are taking place have kind of fueled that momentum.
We’ve got a lot of highly qualified seasoned people in our company and they like the challenges of being able to bring on new capacity within our company and convert facilities and things like that.
So I’m highly confident in our ability to convert facilities bring idle facilities back into the production mode.
It’s just a matter of us having confidence the sustainability in this particular area and the returns that we would get on that.
So we’re positioned nicely to have large backlogs to be able to make the decision and select those potential orders that are out there that are meaningful to us and then have the staffing that we have within our company of the confident people that can deliver the results like they did.
And it’s a little bit of challenge for us to predict precisely exactly when the operating leverage and when the repositioning and when all the activities are going to occur and that’s why sometimes we go with the six months window or we hesitate on giving firm guidance long term.
But level of confidence? I’m highly confident in our company’s ability.
And in fact our people they kind of get turned on by doing these things.
Okay.
That’s good to hear.
I guess to ask it another way or just a follow up your ability to – if needed to bring on some of that idle capacity roughly how long does that take to revamp and open back up one of your facilities? Is it a three month process is it a six month process? Can you just talk a little bit about that? Well it just depends on where the facility is and where it’s located.
One of the attractive things associated with the purchase of these factories that we just acquired is they’ve got a workforce in place right now and they’re finishing up some orders and these people are anxious to be able to go to work and convert and we get a lot of positive signs from them.
So bringing in an idle facility a lot of times we have supervision in our idle facilities that are working elsewhere in our company and we have some of that right now with some of these people that have worked previously in some of our idle facilities.
They’re working elsewhere in our company and it’s kind of they go back home and they get a crew of people together.
So it’s a challenge and it’s a little bit difficult to predict the exact timing but it’s really a lot of fun and it’s a positive type of challenge and opportunity to the communities that we go into.
Okay.
And then I think in someone’s earlier remarks you indicated what two of the three DMI facilities will be manufacturing.
Can you comment at this point on what the third facility could be used for? Or if you’ve made a decision? We’re looking at that third facility.
That third facility happens to be in Canada and we’ve hoped for a long time that we would have a nice facility in Canada that we could build off of because a lot of times when we’re competing up there it’s about Canadian content.
And all of our businesses are very anxiously looking at that facility and talking with customers and things like that.
So at some point in the future we’ll have that one an integration plan developed for that facility.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll now go to the site of Brad Delco with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Most of been addressed but James I just wanted a point of clarification.
You mentioned margins on the railcar side of 9% to 11%.
That is inclusive of the $0.04 to $0.05 of headwinds that you expect with the changeovers? That’s correct Brad.
Okay.
And then I guess going back to this quarter then I think you guys have mentioned $0.05 of headwinds.
Was there anything else in addition that – I would imagine with an improving mix maybe margins could have been a little bit better.
Is there anything in particular that was in the quarter that caused margins to be down what they were relative to maybe where our expectations were? Well Brad the one thing that we did mention Steve and I both mentioned it is the $0.05 were due to the repositioning cost for the oil gas and chemicals industries that we had in our plant.
In addition we had line changeovers to produce different type products and Steve addressed that.
That is not included in our $0.05.
So that was the primary impact on margin which affected your volume as well as your inefficiencies.
Got you appreciate the color.
And then this is maybe more high level maybe for you Tim.
Understanding how your flexibility is allowing you to increase capacity in certain areas is there any way or is it wrong to be thinking about the new capacity coming on having any sort of barriers to seeing the same type of productivity that you’re seeing kind of in the existing plants building tank cars for example or do you have the opportunity to be as efficient in these newer converted facilities? We built this company through acquisitions and we’ve acquired a lot of plants over the history to company.
I’m in my 38 year with the company and there’s a lot of people in our company that have got 15 20 30 years 40 years experience.
And we move into each facility people are people we begin to motivate them we put in programs that we think or we know that work.
And so I have a high degree of confidence that given these facilities that we have that we’ll reach similar and comparable levels of productivity.
And then there is this pride element that gets in.
The plants like to be able to be the flagship plants and show the other plants how productive they can be and then we’ve got a group of people that transfer best practices we’ve got Trinity Centers of Excellence that work on that area.
So we’ve got a lot of good internal programs that support productivity improvements and there is a culture that’s build in this company with a deep legacy.
Thank you.
Thanks for the color there.
And then final question and just to focus on a point I think that you made on the press release you guys are basically setting yourself up for some pretty long production runs next year.
What type of efficiency gains maybe from a margin perspective can that drive? Just thinking about what sort of run rate we can be looking at coming out of the fourth quarter? This is Tim again.
I think that the challenge for our people is to show us the productivity that they can get and the operating leverage that they can develop in this area and we’re looking at all types of systems.
We got lean activities going on.
So it’s really hard to tell.
I’m always amazed at the levels of productivity that our people are able to generate and that gets translated into margin improvements.
The good news is with long backlogs like we have they can do some planning they can get into the repetition and we can have a lot of elements working in our favor.
And we don’t have – I don’t think Steve in your business or in the tank business – tank barge business – we don’t have a lot of changeovers planned for next year.
So that’s a real bright spot for us.
Okay.
Well appreciate the time guys.
That’s all I have.
Thanks.
And we do have a follow up from the site of Thom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Steve when you talk about that earlier order of whatever it was 3 000 cars or so when you say energy I assume you mean more tank and less the hopper side the small cube hopper? Yeah.
Thom just to be clear I don’t think I mentioned a specific number for the order but yes it would be in the tank side of the business.
You noticed I tried that.
Yeah I did.
And I don’t know did you make any comments just about the broad-based strength or not with other car types? Frequently you will address that and given kind of what we’ve seen in the economy I think there’s a lot of concerns that there’s maybe not as much momentum for other car types as we’d prefer right now.
Well Steve the market constantly shifts it’s always shifted in my carrier and it shifts from one particular market to the other.
It’s a broad market and then it just shifts from one area to the other.
It does and certainly we been operating in the backdrop of a weak economic environment.
I’m anxious to see what our railcar market might look like with a greater economic expansion in growth.
It seems though the oil and chemical industries are driving demand for cars.
We’ve seen improved demand for our fertilizer and automotive-related products.
Most of the other freight car business that’s in the marketplace today is largely replacement.
So economic growth I think would add another element to demand for railcars and it would be very complementary to the current energy renaissance.
How about hoppers? There’s no question and I think Bill saw it in his barge business that the weak harvest had an impact on demand for grain cars.
That we think will change over time and you also have the ability to replace older equipment.
There’s still a lot of smaller older equipment in the hopper car business.
The chemical sector it has been greatly impacted by low natural gas which yields opportunities for expanded production of plastics and resins.
Those are transported in covered hoppers we’ve received offer orders for those cars as well.
So again there is evidence of the ripple effect of lower natural gas prices and the benefit to the domestic chemical industry.
Okay.
Thanks again guys.
(Operator Instructions).
And it does look like we have a follow up question from the site of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Your line is now open.
Okay thanks for taking my follow up.
Just a quick question.
If I look at the guidance you’re guiding to I think you said $0.07 to $0.12 per share of lease sale gains in 4Q? That’s correct Sal.
Okay.
If I look at just looking at your guidance from 2Q from the 2Q call I think you had said $0.17 to $0.22 for the second half and you did $0.17 alone in 3Q.
So I guess when you gave that guidance did you was it loaded towards the third quarter or where there just some opportunities that presented themselves in the quarter that you took advantage of? Yeah Sal this is James.
You’ve got your numbers right and we’re little above what we projected for the back half for the year and it’s been the strength of the secondary market.
We’ve been very active in that market it’s always hard to predict which transactions will come to fruition but our commercial team’s done a great job of looking at car sales as Tim mentioned earlier.
It’s an extended sale for us and being able to take cars from our lease fleet that have oftentimes leases attached and have higher value as a result give us a good opportunity to achieve profitability from our leasing business and improve our returns.
Okay.
And looking at it from a high level just – if looking at the lease sale gain that you’ve done this year versus what you can do next year do you think that it would be a stretch for you to repeat this next year? Yeah this is still James.
You know again it is hard for us to talk about next year in terms of that given the timing of those.
We’ve been very successful this year.
We expect the market to remain strong.
As it is right now the magnitude is hard to quantify.
It’s an active and regular part of what we do.
Now that Trinity has a lease lead in excess of 70 000 cars we have the economy of scale that we’ve worked to achieve it does not prevent us from growing by selling cars from the lease fleet as it might have been when we were much smaller.
So it’s a normal part of what we do.
We’re certainly going to look to the secondary market for that strength and have that opportunity but again it’s hard to quantify where we are given its October now looking in 2013 beyond that.
Okay thank you.
Okay Aaron this is Gail Peck.
I think we’re ready to conclude today’s call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00pm Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on November 1 2012.
The access number is 402-220-0116.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter results conference call.
(Operator's instructions) As a reminder today's call may be recorded but before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
The statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity's form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Josh.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries fourth quarter 2011 results conference call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are:  Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups; Antonio Carrillo Senior Vice President and Group President of the Energy Equipment Group; and Bill McWhirter Senior Vice-President and Group President of the Construction Product and Inland Barge Group.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'm please with the improvements in our financial performance during the fourth quarter.
All of our business segments with the exception of one produced solid results.
2011 was a significant growth year for Trinity; our businesses clearly demonstrated their ability to generate growth in specialized areas where demand was strong.
I'm very pleased with the way they worked together to leverage our existing manufacturing capacity to take advantage of growth opportunities.
During 2011 Trinity's annual revenues grew approximately 42%.
If you extract the earnings associated with the flood insurance claims settled during the year our normalized EPS growth was approximately 94% for the year.
As we begin 2012 I'm very pleased with the positive momentum that is occurring within our company.
The operating environment is in place for our businesses to generate operating leverage during 2012.
Predicting operating leverage with precision is difficult because there are many factors to consider.
Demand for rail cars in North America remains consistent during the fourth quarter.
Orders in our Rail Group exceeded deliveries resulting in backlog growth for the eighth consecutive quarter.
Our rail car manufacturing business's ability to achieve operating leverage during the fourth quarter was an accomplishment due to the steep ramp-up these businesses experienced during the quarter.
Their current production footprint provides a nice platform for further improvements.
Our Rail Car Leasing business has great momentum.
Their commercial team continues to originate rail car leases with attractive least terms that tie nicely with existing production plants.
Our Leasing commercial team is also obtaining better terms for renewals on existing Leasing equipment.
Strong rail car demand has created an environment that is ideal for selling rail cars from a lease lead into the secondary market.
Our Inland Barge Group is also experiencing consistent demand.
During the fourth quarter our barge business settled insurance claims associated with the severe flooding last May at our barge facility in Missouri.
I'm very pleased with the speed with which this group recovered from the flood and resolved the associated financial issues.
Our Construction Products businesses are performing well in a challenging market environment.
During the past few years they completed several transactions that contributed to the improvement in their fourth quarter financial results.
This group will continue to pursue additional ways to improve their financial performance despite sluggish U.S.
demand.
Our Energy Equipment Group reported a small loss during the fourth quarter.
The loss was primarily due to lingering issues associated with production line transmissions and contract disputes in the wind tower business.
This business recently filed a lawsuit over contract disputes with a major customer.
The nature of the litigation prevents us from making assumptions on the final outcome.
I see a number of positive signs emerging from our wind tower manufacturing operations.
We have a highly seasoned team focused on resolving the current challenges.
It's always difficult to predict exactly when a business will completely overcome a complex challenge like the one our wind tower business currently faces.
I anticipate this business will be able to generate improvements during the next few quarters.
From an overall company point of view I'm pleased with our accomplishments during the fourth quarter and 2011 as a whole.
I'm optimistic about our outlook for 2012.
Our backlog of orders in our major businesses provides opportunities for our businesses to generate operating leverage that builds additional positive momentum.
Trinity is fortunate to have a highly seasoned group of employees who know how to operate in a variety of conditions.
Our overall performance and the strength of our market leadership positions reflect the talents and hard work of our employees and our commitment to operational excellence.
I will now turn it over to Steve Menzies for his comments.
Thank you Tim.
Good morning.
We are pleased with the 2011 operating results of the Rail and Leasing Groups and the operating momentum building in both business groups at year-end.
During 2011 our Rail Group increased production and operating profit in each quarter in route to producing over 14 000 rail cars.
During the fourth quarter our Rail Group posted an operating profit of $34.4 million a 90% increase over the third quarter.
Rail car shipments during the fourth quarter increased more than 41% when compared to the third quarter.
Our rail car order backlog increased for the eighth consecutive quarter and is at its highest level since the fourth quarter of 2007.
During 2011 our Leasing Group experienced consistently strong fleet utilization and strengthening lease rates.
During the fourth quarter 2011 the Leasing Group posted a 34% increase in operating profit compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 due principally to higher lease renewal rates and profit from lease portfolio sales.
Lease rate and renewal trends continue to remain favorable during the fourth quarter.
Industry demand for new rail cars during 2011 outpaced general economic growth and was driven primarily by orders for rail cars needed to transport crude oil from shale and tar sands fields small covered hoppers for sand use and shale (inaudible) operations and large covered hoppers for minerals and agricultural products.
In the long run we believe the demand for rail transportation to support crude oil transport and gas fracking will continue to generate additional new rail car orders.
Near-term the current price and abundant supply levels of natural gas may negatively impact drilling plus reducing demand for (inaudible) sand and therefore small covered hoppers.
This cycle is very characteristic of many new markets we serve.
At current oil price levels we expect oil drilling and the demand for rail cars to transport crude oil will remain steady.
The energy sector is an exciting new growth opportunity for rail and we are monitoring developments in these markets closely.
The abundance of low-price natural gas is benefiting North American chemical producers.
Several major chemical companies have announced plans to build new plants or to significantly expand existing facilities in North America.
This indicates that domestic chemical production will likely increase driving demand for new rail cars to transport chemical products.
Order for auto racks and flat cars for auto racks were also placed during the quarter as automobile production is projected to rise and the existing auto rack fleet is fully deployed.
Inter-modal orders accounted for approximately one-fourth of industry orders during the fourth quarters reflecting strength in consumer shipments and a continued shift in rail equipment preferences.
Demand for coal-carrying rail cars is weak while utilities take advantage of low-price natural gas for power generation.
During the fourth quarter Trinity Rail received orders for approximately 6 220 new rail cars including auto racks.
Our fourth quarter orders were primarily for auto racks and tank flat and covered hopper rail cars.
Orders came from industrial shippers railroads and third-party leasing companies and Trinity Rail's rail car order backlog was 29 000 rail cars at the end of the fourth quarter up 4% from the end of the third quarter.
Approximately 24% of the units in our order backlog are for customers of our leasing business.
We were successful in securing orders during the fourth quarters that extend current production lines well into 2012 and for some railcar types into 2013.
We continue to focus on orders that optimize production at our facilities currently in operation minimize line changeovers and reflect favorable pricing levels.
Our fourth quarter orders should position us to achieve increased operating leverage.
We delivered approximately 5 105 railcars during the fourth quarter.
This is an increase of approximately 41% from the third quarter and compares most favorably with the approximately 2 230 railcars we delivered in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The steep slope of our production ramp-up during the last four quarters has been challenging.
We are now positioned to improve our operating leverage as our labor force is more experienced and we stabilize our railcar production rate during the next few quarters.
For the year 2012 we are projecting delivery of approximately 18 000 to 20 000 new railcars.
As a point of comparison we delivered 14 065 in 2011 and 4 750 in 2010.
We remain flexible in our 2012 production plan and are prepared to respond to further shifts in demand.
We will continue to update you on our full-year delivery projections as the year unfolds.
We added approximately 800 new railcars to our lease portfolio during the fourth quarter bringing our wholly owned lease fleet to 54 595 railcars a 5.2% increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011 was 99.3% and our average remaining lease term remained at 3.5 years.
The TRIP lease fleet totals 14 350 railcars operating at 99.9% utilization.
As a reminder Trinity owns 57% in TRIP and manages the portfolio.
Lease renewal trends are favorable.
A high percentage of our lessees are renewing their contracts which lowers remarketing expenses and minimizes out-of-service time.
Renewal lease rates are also showing steady increases.
Lease rates on new cars are at attractive investment levels.
We expect this trend to continue while existing railcars are in tight supply and new railcar production backlogs remain extended.
We have grown our lease fleet through the strong lease origination capabilities of our commercial team.
We have also demonstrated our competence to effectively remarket our lease portfolio as evidenced by our utilization and renewal trends.
With the scale diversification of our leasing footprint we are now better positioned to more actively participate in this secondary market.
We have seen an active secondary market for the purchase and sale of leased railcars during the last few quarters.
Increased availability of capital for buyers is supporting the financing of these portfolio purchases.
We have over time been successful at selling lease railcars from our portfolio.
In the third quarter of 2011 we sold a group of lease railcars from our portfolio and we sold an additional group in the fourth quarter.
We expect to continue lease portfolio sales during the next few quarters assuming market conditions continue to support an active and deep market of buyers.
In summary railcar market conditions remain favorable although driven in a large part by demand related to energy exploration and production.
We are closely monitoring developments in the oil and gas markets to understand factors that may influence future demand for rail cars.
During the fourth quarter we reached the latter stages of production ramp up.
As we enter 2012 we expect our operations team to focus on improving efficiencies while producing at a stable rate for the next few quarters.
We expect to continue to see the benefits of the strong lease pricing developments and an active secondary market.
I will now turn it over to Antonio.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
Since our last conference call progress has been made towards resolving a number of challenges facing our wind tower business.
We will provide only a small level of color about this business today due to pending litigation and contractual disputes that are still in the process of being resolved.
You will recall that to accommodate a customer we transitioned last May from manufacturing 80-meter towers to manufacturing 100-meter towers.
Since then we have encountered a number of issues related to this transition.
During the fourth quarter we made progress working through a number of these issues.
One of our priorities has been to enhance our manufacturing flexibility so we can respond efficiently to customer needs.
We have made significant progress in this area and are currently in the process of transitioning back to 80-meter poles at some of our facilities under the terms of our original contract.
In respect to contractual issues we expect customers that have placed orders with us to fulfill their commitments.
To the extent our customers require contractual modifications and we can identify terms that are mutually acceptable to both parties we will work towards a resolution.
We are currently in the middle of discussions with customers about contract modifications.
These discussions are moving slowly due to the complexity of the issues involved.
You may be aware that Trinity Structural Towers has joined a group of other U.S.
wind tower manufacturers in a trade case against wind tower imports from China and Vietnam.
For the past few years U.S.
wind tower manufacturers have seen what we believe are unfair pricing practices on the part of wind tower manufacturers in these countries.
Last week the International Trade Commission unanimously decided that there is enough evidence to support an investigation.
We're closely monitoring developments in this case.
With respect to the other business lines within the energy equipment group I am pleased with the solid revenue increases we experienced throughout the year.
Our businesses clearly demonstrated their ability to react to specialized demand to take advantage of growth opportunities.
I will now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Antonio and good morning everyone.
Our Construction Products Group continued to perform well during the fourth quarter producing an operating profit of $11.2 million for the quarter compared to $6.7 million in the same quarter a year ago.
This significant improvement in results was primarily due to two factors: relatively mild winter weather that has continued into 2012 and to a larger extent the success of our efforts in 2011 to reposition this segment.
During 2011 we reduced our exposure to Ready Mix concrete while growing our highway products construction aggregates and galvanizing business lines.
All of these business lines provide us the potential for higher margins with reduced market volatility compared with the Ready Mix concrete business.
Looking forward into 2012 I see more opportunities to grow our higher margin businesses through acquisitions and continue our efforts to improve our overall returns within the Construction Products Group.
Moving to our Inland Barge Group.
For the fourth quarter our barge business had sales of $150 million and reported operating profits of $39.6 million.
$17 million of these operating profits were a one-time gain related to the flood that occurred at our facility in May of 2011.
The net result is a normalized profit of $22.6 million for the fourth quarter which compares with $18 million in the same quarter of 2010.
Barge movement of petroleum products chemicals and coal continues to be strong.
During the quarter we signed $80 million in new orders.
Our barge backlog now stands at $495 million at the quarter's end.
Market activity for new barges for 2012 and 2013 continues to be encouraging.
Overall I am very pleased with the 2011 performance of both our barge and construction products groups.
Our team of employees had an excellent year.
At this time I'll turn the presentation over to James.
My comments relate primarily to the fourth quarter of 2011.
We will file our form 10K later today.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 Trinity reported earnings of $0.70 per common diluted share.
This compares to $0.22 per common diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2011 increased 48% to $942 million compared to $636 million of revenues in the same quarter last year.
This is resulting from a higher level of railcar and tank barge deliveries continued growth in our railcar leasing operations and an increased level of railcar sales from the leasing portfolio.
Trinity's operating profit increased 72% during the fourth quarter to $139 million and our EBITDA increased to $188 million from $122 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The reconciliation of EBITDA was provided in our press release yesterday.
The results for the fourth quarter of 2011 include a pre-tax gain of $17 million or $0.14 per common diluted share related to the final settlement for the disposition of insured property plant and equipment damaged by a flood at Trinity's Missouri barge facility last May.
The insurance claim related to the flood is now closed.
As we mentioned on our last conference call our earnings guidance for the fourth quarter did not include this gain.
Our fourth quarter 2010 results included a pre-tax charge of $6 million or $0.04 per common diluted share related to the redemption of the company's senior notes.
For the total year 2011 our revenues increased 43% to $3.1 billion compared to $2.2 billion in 2010.
Our earnings per common diluted share in 2011 were $1.77 compared to $0.85 in 2010.
Our operating profit was $425 million in 2011 compared to $304 million in 2010 and our EBITDA totaled $616 million compared to $488 million in 2010.
Full-year 2011 results included a cumulative pre-tax gain of $15.5 million or $0.12 per common diluted share related to the floods.
On a full-year basis one-time items reported in 2010 were not meaningful to results.
The Rail Group recorded revenues of $453 million in the fourth quarter a 121% increase over the same quarter 2010 on the strength of 5 105 rail car deliveries compared 2 230 deliveries a year ago.
The increase in deliveries reflects strong growth in demand during the last year and Trinity Rail's successful ramp-up of production capacity to meet that demand.
The Rail Group's operating profit for the quarter increased to $34 million compared to $9 million a year ago due to higher volume and operating leverage.
For the total year 2011 our Rail Group delivered 14 065 rail cars and generated $1.3 billion of revenue compared to deliveries of 4 750 rail cars and revenues of $522 million in 2010.
During the fourth quarter the Leasing Group recorded revenues of $157 million and an operating profit of $76 million including $18 million of gains from rail car sales from the leasing portfolio.
This compares to revenues of $119 million and an operating profit of $57 million during the fourth quarter last year including $2 million of gains from rail car sales.
We mentioned on our last earnings conference call that selling rail cars from the leasing portfolio is a common industry practice that is driven by market demand.
Our lease fleet has grown to  a size that enables us to pursue these opportunities when they align with our strategic goals for the portfolio particularly maximizing returns diversifying the lease fleet and managing our investment levels.
As we mentioned in our earnings release yesterday and detail on our 10-K that will be filed today during the fourth quarter we adopted an emerging industry practice for recognizing revenue from the sale of the rail cars from the lease fleet.
For rail cars owned by the leasing business for one year or less at the time of sale sales are recognized on a gross basis as part of the leasing revenues and cost of revenues.
For the fourth quarter 2011 revenues included $29 million of sales of this type.
For rail cars owned by the leasing business for more than one year at the time of sale sales are recognized as net gains or losses from the disposal of long-term assets.
Proceeds of car sales at this type totaled $43 million in the fourth quarter 2011 and are reported on our statement of cash flows in our 10-K.
Prior-year balances have been reclassified to conform with this policy the details of which will be made available in our 10-K.
The adoption of this policy does not change operating profit in the current period or prior periods.
Our Inland Barge Group had another good quarter as they fully recover from the flood of our Missouri facility.
Reported revenues of $150 million for the fourth quarter compared to $127 million in the same quarter last year.
The Group's operating profit excluding one-time flood-related items in both periods was $23 million compared to $18 million in the same quarter last year.
The Energy Group incurred an operating loss of $900 000 in the fourth quarter on revenues of $125 million.
This compares to an operating profit of $5 million on revenues of $108 million last year.
Revenues for the fourth quarter of this year increased compared to the same period last year as a result of higher shipments of tank containers and tank heads partially offset by lower volumes of wind towers.
The loss result is from transition issues arising from changes in product mix in our wind towers business as well as competitive pricing on wind towers.
Last month we filed litigation against a customer in our wind towers business for breach of contract resulting from their failure to comply with their multi-year obligations.
We are unable to provide further comment at this time on that topic due to the ongoing litigation.
The Construction Products Group recorded fourth quarter revenues of $142 million and an operating profit of $11 million.
This compares to revenues of $129 million and an operating profit of $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This Group has continued to perform well in a challenging construction environment.
The Group has made significant progress realigning its portfolio through a series of strategic acquisitions in the highway products space and asset repositioning within the concrete and aggregates business to align with demand.
In summary this year's fourth quarter results from our core operations which exclude the gain from the flood settlement area substantial improvement over the same period last year.
At year-end our balance of unrestricted cash totaled $351 million.
When combined with available capacity under our corporate revolver and Trinity leasing warehouse facility we had more than $850 million of available liquidity at the end of the year which positions us to capitalize on business opportunities as they arise.
I will now discuss our forward-looking guidance.
For the first quarter of 2012 we expect earnings per common diluted share for the company to be between $0.43 and $0.48.
For the full year we expect earnings per common diluted share of between $2.35 and $2.55.
We anticipate that the Rail Group will report revenues of between $460 million and $480 million during the first quarter with an operating margin of between 7% and 9%.
We expect our rail car manufacturing companies to deliver rail cars to our leasing company that will result in (inaudible) of approximately $120 million to $140 million in consolidated revenues and between $0.09 and $0.10 of earnings per share in the first quarter.
For the full year we expect our net leasing capital expenditures to be between $300 million and $350 million.
Included in our guidance for the first quarter is approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share of gains from the sale of rail cars from our lease fleet.
Our annual guidance includes approximately $0.10 to $0.12 per share from car sale gains.
Again the level of rail car sale activity from the lease portfolio is difficult to accurately project given the opportunistic nature of the transactions and uncertainty about precise timing.
The change in accounting policies does not impact the level profit we have assumed in this guidance.
Inland Barge revenues are expected to be between $160 million and $170 million in the first quarter with an operating margin of 13% to 15%.
As Antonio mentioned our Energy Equipment Group continues to conduct discussions with wind tower customers about mutually acceptable contract modifications.
Our wind tower business is also focused on enhancing its ability to transition effectively between wind tower models when customers' product needs change.
We are making progress in these areas.
We expect to see improvement in the Energy Equipment results within the next few quarters.
However we remain unable to provide detailed financial guidance until we have more clarity about the exact timing of these business developments.
We will continue to evaluate market condition as we deploy capital to promote the growth of our businesses.
Our current plan calls for an investment of $100 million to $125 million of capital expenditures in our manufacturing businesses during 2012.
Our results for the first quarter and full-year of 2012 will depend on a number of factors including: the level of operating leverage we achieve as our rail businesses operate at a relatively steady level of production; the impact of product mix changes in the wind towers business; additional prospective sales of railcars from the leasing portfolio; the amount of profit elimination due to railcar additions to our Leasing Group; the impact of weather conditions on our Construction Product businesses; and the outcome of pending litigation in our wind towers business.
Our Operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) We will pause for a moment for any questions to populate the queue.
Our first question comes from Steve Barger with Keybanc Capital.
Please go ahead; your line is open.
Good morning.
This is actually Alex Walsh sitting in for Steve.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First off pretty solid order activity in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could just talk to or characterize what you are seeing in terms of order rates and inquiry levels thus far in this year.
Alex are you talking...
Which business? All of our businesses? For the Rail Group.
Oh for the Rail Group? Steve why don't you take that.
Sure Alex.
We've seen fairly consistent demand here in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
Again as I mentioned in my comments with gas prices weakening we are seeing some slowing down in near-term gas drilling but we would expect that that would pick up somewhere down the road.
But generally consistent demand here in the first quarter that we saw in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And it looks like implied price per car in the backlog took a nice step up.
I know that can be impacted by mix.
I was wondering if you could just talk directionally about pricing for both new cars and lease rates and how that kind of compares to this same time last year.
Okay.
Steve do you want to take it? Sure.
It's always difficult to generalize about pricing as you mentioned because of mix and other issues.
But clearly we're seeing strong demand with the existing fleet very much in equilibrium and fully utilized and extended production backlogs.
That really contributes to very strong pricing environment as evidenced in our renewal trends and we're clearly seeing increased prices in our new rail cars as well.
OK.
I guess as I think about pricing and what sounds like production possibly leveling off given the targets that you've talked about as you got the infrastructure in place to really expand margins how you guys thinking about incrementals relative to prior cycles? It looks like on implied it's maybe a low double-digit incremental and I think you've done a north of that in the past.
Sure Alex.
This is James and as we indicated we are at relatively steady level of production going into this year.
We indicated margins of 7% to 9% in the first quarter and every cycles going to be little bit different.
You are still looking at a level of cars this year that is well south of the peak in the prior years.
We produced 28 000 cars or so; the industry was producing north 70 000 cars.
So while demand is strong right now it's hard to speculate too far out beyond the next couple of quarters on what margins may do given the embedded pricing and leverage we're able to achieve.
OK.
That's helpful.
And one more before I jump back in line: you talked about the implications of oil and gas demand on the Rail Group but I was wondering if you could kind of talk through the implications for Barge and what your longer-term expectations were there and I guess maybe just kind of comment on order rates for the quarter as well.
Bill? Yeah.
I guess I will start with the order rate in the quarter.
I think consistent with Steve's comments we're seeing a nice demand in the business.
Business does tend to be a little seasonal in orders with third quarter typically being a little higher than fourth quarter but I am encouraged by the overall market activity.
Again much to Steve's' comments I think the tank barge business in particular has benefitted from the move of petrochemicals and chemical products and we've seen what I would call a fairly robust demand throughout our product line on the tank barge side.
Okay.
I'll jump back in line.
Thanks.
Next question from the site of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead; your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Looking at the order delivery and the backlog trends in your Rail business pretty much across the board you gained share this quarter and outpaced the industry.
I was curious if you could talk a little bit to why you think you're gaining share at this point of cycle -- is that strategy? Is that mix? Is it a little bit of both? -- And sort of how you feel about your position there and where it might  move in the next few quarters here.
Steve? For sure.
Bascome as we talked many times on this conference call we don't really drive our business by market share.
Market share is a number we measure kind of as an output and we're really focused on orders that support our production plan and support the product lines that we find to be most profitable for us.
And generally we see demand consistent with our production plans and we were able to continue to fill our production lines with orders that we're currently making.
So there are some areas in the marketplace that we have less interest where we see pricing levels less attractive and where competition is much more heated and we saw orders for cars in the fourth quarter for some of those.
So it really depends upon mix and now we look at the business going forward and what cars we're producing but market share really isn't something that drives our day-to-day decisions.
Could you be a little bit more specific about those where you're deliberately not playing now just out of curiosity? Well as I mentioned in my script about 25% of the orders during the fourth quarter for inter-modal cars that's not a market that we're currently heavily focused on.
Okay.
Well thank you.
And could you talk a little bit with your order uptick could you talk a bit about the customer mix and maybe how that's changed in the last few months and subsequent to quarter-end? Yeah Bascome Steve again.
In answering that question really look at 2011 and I think one of the largest developments from a customer mix standpoint was the return of third-party lessors.
Third-party lessors have been active in the marketplace ordering new cars and I see that as a big change in 2011 versus 2010 and I would expect third-party lessors will stay active in the business in 2012 given the supply / demand levels and the attractive nature of investment opportunities.
Railroads are buying cars industrial shippers are both buying cars and leasing cars so we really see a broad customer base responding in the current market.
Okay.
And I'll just take one more and hop off.
Can you talk a little bit about TRIP and sort of its profit contribution and if you could see that becoming more material in the future.
Sure.
This is James Bascome.
TRIP is at a relatively steady level right now as you know.
TRIP has the opportunity to do the same thing as our Leasing business is doing with (inaudible) renewal rates and those type things.
You will see in the 10-K some car sales from TRIP from time to time.
But you know TRIP is working through its operating efficiency as we look at lease rates and expenses and those type things as our overall Leasing business is.
We did recapitalize TRIP last year so you see a different level of interest expense that's detailed in the 10-K as well.
But in terms of it becoming more material right now as TRIP is positioned it's a relatively steady size and so its size in relation of materiality to the overall Leasing company we don't see changing much in the near-term.
All right guys.
Thanks for the time.
Our next question comes from the site of Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead; your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Bill just going back to the barge if I remember correctly I think the dry barges have been the primary production that you guys have been doing but it sounds like obviously a lot more interest on the tank barges.
Could we expect maybe a more favorable mix as we move toward the back half of 2012 as a result in that segment? I think Allison that the mix is going to be relatively consistent.
Our plants now are at a very very high production rate.
I never call it 100% but we are running at a pretty hot pace in all of our facilities.
So I think the mix you fill find will be more in whether the tank barges will be in 30Ks 10Ks hot oil or clean oil barges.
And so that can drive the margin a little bit but overall it's probably pretty steady as we go forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the site of Paul Bodnar with  Longbow Research.
Please go ahead; your line is open.
Hey a couple of questions.
First it's just on the guidance.
It seemed like in the quarter your 18 000 to 20 000 deliveries for 2012 obviously you've kind of exceeded that pace in the fourth quarter.
I was just wondering if you're kind of being conservative for the back half of 2012 or if you could just give a little more detail on that.
Steve you want to take that? Just to be clear I think what I said was we're projecting deliveries at this time in 2012 of 18 000 to 20 000 cars and our production level in the fourth quarter was slightly above 51 00 cars.
So I think what we're looking at right now Paul is that for the next few quarters we would expect a stable manufacturing environment from a production level standpoint.
We'll see where the market goes from there and react and adjust accordingly for the second half of the year.
We remain flexible.
We've got the ability to scale up if we see demand continuing to increase.
We're comfortable with producing at our current levels and if the economy goes a different way we're prepared to take actions there too.
You know I guess along those lines tank car demand for these oil shale plays seems to be pretty strong and from what I understand you guys are pretty much sold  out  for 2012 on the tank car side.
What would it take to open up some initial production? Well I think we stated over the last couple quarters too that before we open up additional capacity we want to be confident that there is sustainable demand and sustainable demand is more than demand for a couple of quarters.
So when we see that type of sustainable demand our plants are very flexible.
Obviously we have idle facilities but we also have facilities making other product lines that if we see keen opportunities we're able to shift those product lines at those plants and move into producing rail cars.
In fact if you look back a few years ago we were building rail cars at a number of plants.
Our rail car business began to slow wind towers was taking off and we were able to convert those plants to wind towers and similarly we went back the other way.
So our flexibility is really our key in responding to market shifts and we really do keep our ear to the ground in the market to anticipate those shifts and be ready to move if we see sustainable demand.
Do you think you'd actually convert one of wind facilities back to tank car production or would you probably go with a new one? It really depends upon the circumstances at that time Paul.
But we certainly have that flexibility and we evaluate it continually on a regular basis.
And then I just want to make sure I heard something right on the Barge side.
Did you say 13% to 15% operating margin was the guidance for the quarter? Yes Paul that is correct.
Give just a little more detail on that too just sequentially.
I mean even if you kind of make the adjustments for last year that will be kind of be below any quarter I think.
Bill? No Paul I think if you make the adjustments for last quarter we would have been sitting in Q4 2010 at somewhere around 14.5%.
Normalized on this quarter we come off about 15.1% 15.2% so very much in line with that kind of mid-teens margin perspective.
Okay and I guess one last question is on the oil shale and the tank car side.
I mean are those customers leasing or are they buying or what kind of mix are you seeing on that? This is Steve again Paul.
We've actually seen both.
We've seen some exploration companies we've seen some producers we've seen oil brokers both buy cars and lease cars.
What kind of terms are you on leasing? Are you going pretty long on those? I prefer not to comment about specific commercial terms on our leases.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
The next question comes from the site of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead; your line is open.
Good morning all.
I guess the first question is on the lease side just trying understand the guidance you gave there.
So basically you're saying $0.03 to $0.04 per share of lease gains in 1Q and that works out to about $4 million to $5 million.
So I'm just trying to get sense for how that compares to 4Q.
In 4Q it was more like $0.14 or $0.15 $18 million.
So what was so unique about 4Q? I mean was it that you just saw the opportunity to sell cars at attractive prices and could you see another type of quarter maybe not $18 million but say something like a $10 million quarter at some point this year? I mean is your guidance just a little bit on the conservative side as it pertains to that? James why don't you take that? Sure Sal I'll tackle that for you.
The guidance we give is where we see the market right now and the secondary market conversations we're having.
Clearly the fourth quarter was higher than we saw in the third quarter and we're projecting right now.
We did have a lot of good opportunities in the fourth quarter.
It allowed us to do some diversification to achieve some nice returns and as we see opportunities just like in the manufacturing side that are attractive for us to take part in the secondary transactions we'll certainly look at those very carefully if they fit the different goals we're trying to achieve.
So we would tell you this is where we see things right now.
We wanted to be sure you had an understanding of what was embedded in our guidance and if we have adjustments to that as we go forward in the year each quarter as we update our guidance on these calls we'll provide that detail.
Okay that's helpful.
Then also another question on the lease side can you give us a sense of and I'm sorry if you already mentioned this earlier but how much of your and I guess overall between TRIP and your core lease fleet your overall lease fleet what percentage of the leases of the cars under lease are coming up for renewal this year? And to follow-up on that roughly how far below the market are they currently? James? Yeah I'll handle that.
The first part of your question how much is up for renewal the average lease remaining term in the overall portfolio is about three and a half years so that would tell you that about one-seventh or kind of that 15% ball park renews in a given year.
We don't have any given year where that is abnormal.
We don't get real specific on that but I don't think this year is going to be abnormal versus the last couple of years or the next couple of years given that remaining lease term.
The second part of your question how much of that is under market per se we certainly don't get into that.
As Steve said we are seeing renewal trends favorable and new lease terms favorable but it's really hard to dissect nor would we for competitive reasons dive too much into specific lease pricing or what may be up for renewal.
OK.
Then if I could just switch over to the manufacturing side for a moment if I look at the guidance of 18 000 to 20 000 cars for the year what would you say could account for the variability in that range? Is it mostly on the energy side the shale play? Steve? Sure Sal Steve Menzies.
Well first of all we have commercial risk in that we do still have open production spots and order places yet to be sold this year.
So that is a variable that kind of heads the list as far as what determines the 18 000 to 20 000 range.
And we still are experiencing operating efficiency growth and we still have productivity growth.
So our operations group while improving still has more improvement to make and there are certainly continued challenges in that.
The last thing I would say is supply chain.
While today we've not had any major supply chain interruptions the supply chain is still very tight and they too are struggling to ramp up their operations.
So I would look at those three components as major variables to our production output for this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
Our next question comes from the site of Zahid Siddique with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please go ahead; your line is open.
Hi good morning.
My first question is on the wind customer.
I know you won't comment on the specifics but you did in one of the press releases indicate that you have a backlog of about roughly $410 million with regards to this customer.
How much of that is in production? I'm trying to kind of put a handle on the actual cost on your end.
James? Sure sure.
This is James.
When you look at that lawsuit that was filed and the press release and the details there we did indicate that we did not have any production capacity right now reserved for fulfilling orders from that backlog given we don't have those commitments in hand.
So that is in the backlog as there's a firm commitment from that customer to buy wind towers from us but right now we don't incorporate that as part of our guidance given the production planning that we have.
OK.
So in the extreme case you wouldn't really be losing anything there.
It's just the incremental gain that you're worried about if I understand.
I think that 's fair.
We certainly have wind tower capacity that we're filling with orders that we have but right now we don't assume there's any production space dedicated to that backlog.
OK and my next question is on the fracking and oil and tar business.
How much of the cars either in the backlog or in orders are related to those businesses? Zahid this is Steve Menzies.
We don't disclose specifics about our backlog by car types or customers but certainly it's had a significant impact on the entire industry both in deliveries in 2011 as well as order backlog for 2012.
OK.
Last question is on the Q1 guidance.
I guess back in Q3 when you guided Q4 you said $0.38 to $0.43 and you came out at $0.56 if you adjust for the gains.
Why for Q1 $0.43 to $0.48 when I guess your orders are higher your backlog is better you know why not for Q1 say you know $0.55? James? James.
Sure and I think we highlighted a couple of specific things.
If you look quarter-over-quarter the level of car sales we are anticipating is lower.
That's where you had in the mid-teens range on an earnings per share.
This quarter we're projecting $0.03 to $0.04.
We're also projecting slightly more EPS elimination of profit as we ship more cars to the lease fleet first quarter versus fourth quarter.
Otherwise the business is as we've projected the margins and revenues are up and down a little bit but those are the two big changes I think I'd highlight quarter to quarter.
OK.
So it's about a $0.10 delta on the gains and maybe some other on the eliminations? Those are the primary items that we've highlighted yes.
OK.
Thank you so much.
Thank you Zahid.
I see no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to our speakers.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern standard time today through midnight on February 23rd 2012.
The access number is 4022200120.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performances.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
And welcome to today’s program.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator instructions) We’ll take question in turn during our Q&amp;A session.
Please note today’s call is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Gail Peck.
Please begin.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Trinity Industries' First Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
I’m Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Group; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Group.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased with our strong financial results for the first quarter.
Our performance was positively impacted by our ability to align our manufacturing capacity with the strong demand for our products to serve the oil gas and chemicals industries.
Our businesses are doing outstanding job of converting production capacity to meet customer needs for products that support these industries.
I’m very pleased that how well our manufacturing operations are improving their operating efficiencies while at the same time shifting product mix and training new employees this is a major accomplishment.
Demand for railroad tank cars and tank barges support the moment of cured oil remain strong as well as the demand for large storage containers.
We continue to review options for expanding our existing manufacturing capacity to serve markets with strong demand.
Trinity Rail’s integrated railcar manufacturing and railcar leasing platform had a great first quarter.
Demand for railcars to serve the oil gas and chemicals industry in North America surge during the first quarter contributing to a record backlog for the rail group of $5.1 million.
We are continuing to pursue opportunities with third-party equity investors who are interested in ownership of leased railcars.
A numbers of high quality institutional investors are currently expressing strong interest.
We are focused on expanding our options for financing the growth by railcar leasing and management services businesses.
I’m optimistic regarding our potential in this area.
In March we closed the previously announced agreement to acquire certain light weight aggregates operation from Taxes Industries and exchange for our remaining ready mix concrete operations.
This transaction creates opportunity for higher returns within our constructions product group.
I’m pleased with utilization we are obtaining from the manufacturing facilities in the United States that we have acquired last year from DMI.
The timing of this transaction fit really well with the surging demand for certain products.
We continue to develop resources towards identifying and pursuing additional businesses that provide products that align with our manufacturing platforms.
We are confident we will continue to have additional acquisition opportunities from our pipeline of prospects.
In closing our solid financial performance and the orders we obtain for products during the first quarter reflect the capabilities of our employees in the strengths of the markets we serve.
The demand for products in several of these markets aligns very well with our manufacturing businesses.
This is an exciting time for our company.
I’m proud of the significant progress we’re making towards achieving our vision to become a premier diversified industrial company.
I will now turn it over to Bill McWhirter.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Our Energy Equipment Groups revenue increased approximately 24% year-over-year due to increase shipments large containers and structural wind towers.
The Group report an operating profit of $14.9 million and a major of 9.6% which is its best performance in more than two years.
During the quarter we received $48 million of new structural wind towers.
The extensional of the production tax credit as well as the recent clarification of federal guidelines for receiving the credit is giving a nice lift to the wind tower industry.
Our current backlog provides us some visibility into 2014.
With respects to our production capacity we have some flexibility and our prepared to adjust if necessary in responds to future market changes.
After the close of the quarter we announce the acquisition of the assets of Formet a manufacturer of utility transmission structures and highway products headquartered in Monterrey Mexico.
The Formet acquisition broadens our product portfolio within the utility structures business and enhances our manufacturing footprint in Mexico.
The acquisition is consistent with Trinity’s vision to become a premier diversified industrial company.
Our Construction Products Group generated operating profit of $7.7 million during the first quarter compared to $11.1 million during the same quarter a year ago.
Poor weather conditions combined with the soft highway products market resulted in a decline in revenue from last year.
While the sequestration does not directly affect the federal highway bill it does create presser on many states’ ability to fund highway projects.
In March we completed the exchange of our ready mix concrete business for certain lightweight aggregate operations owned by TXI.
This transaction is the key part of our strategy to reposition the construction product segment to align with the products that have more consistent demand drivers and offer greater opportunity for improved returns.
Turning to our Inland Barge Group.
The group experienced a year-over-year decline in both revenue and profits resulting from fewer hopper barge deliveries in the first quarter of this year compared to last year.
As a reminder segment profit during the first quarter of last year included a gain of $3.4 million from the sale of leased barges to third parties.
As a result on an adjusted basis the operating margin for our barge business improved year-over-year to 16.5% from 15.7%.
During the quarter we secured $66 million in new barge orders bring our backlog to $483 million at the end of March.
The movement of petroleum and chemical products continues to create a strong market for tank barges.
Our tank barge facilities now have visibility well into 2014.
On our last call we announced that we were enhancing one of our tank barge facilities to accommodate few additional production slides.
We expect these improvements to be completed by the end of summer.
In addition we plan to reposition our hopper barge facility to manufacture smaller tank barges later in the year.
Demand for hopper barges continues to show weakness as many of our customers are experiencing low utilization levels from the reduction of coal and grain movements.
Overall I’m pleased with the performance of our business unit teams.
The Inland Barge Group is performing well despite mix demand conditions.
Our energy equipment and construction products group are working hand in hand to provide products for the aging North American infrastructure markets.
At this time I’ll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
The operational and financial performance of the Rail Group in the first quarter resulted in a number of major accomplishments.
We recorded our highest ever operating profits in operating margin during the quarter.
The group also set new records for backlog both in unit and dollar value and both the largest orders value quarter in Trinity Rail's history.
I’m very pleased with these significant accomplishments.
North American railcar demand surged during the first quarter.
Strong railcar demand continues to be driven by demand for railcars to support the oil gas and chemical industries.
We are also seeing steady demand for auto racks and devising demand for small covered hoppers to sever the C&amp;A construction industries.
Industry orders for new railcars totaled 23 900 during the first quarter of which Trinity Rail secured orders for 14 505 new railcars with a record value of $2 billion.
First quarter orders were primarily for tank cars covered hoppers and auto racks and came from railroad industrial shippers and third-party leasing companies.
Our total backlog increased to 41 265 railcars valued at record $5.1 billion in firm non-cancelable orders.
Many of our orders extend current production of certain railcars into 2015 and 2016.
During the first quarter we delivered 5 230 railcars on pace with our annual delivery guidance of 20 500 to 22 000 railcars for 2013.
Operating profit for the Rail Group during the quarter totaled $103 million resulting in a 16.5% margin both new records for this segment.
Operating efficiencies significantly improved throughout quarter as we began to see the benefits of stable production and a more experienced workforce.
While I expect a long-term trend of improvement in operating efficiencies we have subtle line changeovers plan in the second quarter which may present headwinds for margins in the near term.
Our leasing group continues to generate strong returns and contribute steady cash flows to the company.
Operating profit from operations decreased compared to the first quarter of 2012 as lease fleet addition and higher lease rates were also set by increases in maintenance expenses during the quarter.
The timing of maintenance expenses can be uneven and difficult to forecast.
In the long term maintenance expenses may increase as a percent of revenue compared to historic levels as the lease fleet ages in the cost of increased regulatory testing are incurred.
Lease renewal trends for railcars serving the oil and gas and chemical industries continue to be positive during the quarter as railcar order backlogs and production lead times remains extended.
Market condition for railcars serving those markets supporting improve lease returns lease terms and lease rates to the first quarter lease renewals.
Our lease utilization at the end of the first quarter was 98.4% down slightly from the previous quarter due to continued softness in the coal and agricultural markets.
During the first quarter we added approximately 1 695 new railcars to our wholly owned leased fleet portfolio.
The total lease portfolio including trip now stands at approximately 72 775 railcars an increase of 4% year-over-year.
At the end of quarter approximately 18% of the units in our railcar order backlog to the total of $906 million was slated for customers of our leasing business.
Secondary market conditions remained attractive for lease portfolio sales sustaining the opportunity to strategically manage our portfolio of railcars and return value to shareholders.
We did complete several railcar sales transactions during the quarter.
In closing I’m pleased with how our team responded to the challenge to transition production to railcars in support of the oil gas and chemicals industries.
Our manufacturing flexibility positions us to meet demand earning strong returns from extended production rise.
Our record backlog is an indication of our ability to quickly adjust to meet strong market conditions and service our customers mix.
We expect to continue seeing the benefits of a favorable lease pricing environment and an active secondary market supporting lease portfolio sales and we are solidly position to take advantage of the well-aligned railcar and capital markets to support continued growth of our leasing footprint.
I’ll now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we reported strong first quarter results with a growth in total earnings per share of 50% over last year resulting in a most profitable first quarter in Trinity history.
The results were driven by the strong performance of our Rail Group primarily as a result better than expected efficiencies during the quarter and a solid improvement in the Energy Equipment Group profitability.
During the first quarter we closed the previously announced transaction with TXI exchanging our remaining ready mix concrete business for certain light weight aggregate assets.
The company booked net income from discontinued operations of $6.6 million during the first quarter or $0.08 per share as a result of the transaction including a $7 million after tax gain on the sale.
This gain was not included in our prior earnings guidance.
At quarter end our unrestricted cash and marketable security totaled $420 million when this is combined with the unused capacity under our committee credit facilities we had approximately $1.1 billion of available liquidity at the end of the quarter.
Capital allocations during the quarter included approximately $161 million in net leasing and manufacturing capital expenditures $9 million in cash use for acquisitions and $84 million in debt payments including $49 million related to the early retirement of a 6.78% secured leasing term loan.
I will now discuss our updated outlook for 2013 including our annual guidance for each business segment.
For the second quarter of 2013 we expect total earnings per share for the company to be between $0.88 and $0.95.
For the full year we now expect total earnings per share of between $3.80 and $4.05 including the effects of discontinued operations.
We do not anticipate any addition impact from discontinued operations during the remainder of the year.
For the Rail Group we no expect 2013 revenue of between $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion.
We continue to expect the Rail Group to deliver between 20 500 and 22 000 railcars in 2013 at a relatively consistent pace throughout the year.
During the second quarter we will conduct several line changeovers in our railcar operations which may reduce our margins during the quarter.
Despite the near-term headwind we expect an annual operating margin of between 15% and 17% for the Rail Group.
In our Inland Barge Group we expect annual revenues of between $555 million and $580 million in 2013 with an operating margin in the range of 14% to 16%.
As a reminder the hopper barge is currently in the backlog have lower margins than the hopper barges delivered in 2012 somewhat offsetting the strong fundamentals we are seeing in the tank barge market.
In the Energy Equipment Group we now expect 2013 revenues of between $580 million and $600 million and an operating margin of between 8.5% and 10.5%.
This improved guidance is the result of strong demand in our tank containers business and an uptake in demand for structural wind towers as a result of the recently clarified federal guidelines for receiving the production tax credit.
The new tax credit provides the industry with much needed visibility and the opportunity to advance new projects.
In the Construction Products Group we expect annual revenues of between $515 million and $540 million in 2013 and an operating margin of between 9.5% and 11.5%.
As a reminder seasonality is a factor in this business segments results the second and third quarters are usually the high points of the construction season.
Our 2013 guidance reflects the recent acquisition of light weight aggregates from TXI.
In the Leasing Group we expect 2013 revenues from railcar leasing and management operations of between $560 million and $580 million with an operating profit of between $250 and $275 million.
This portion of the leasing guidance excludes potential revenue and profit from sales of railcars from the lease fleet.
We now anticipate revenue and deferred profit eliminations from new railcar additions to the lease fleet will be between $800 million and $850 million of revenue and between $135 million and $160 million of operating profit.
An important element of our overall strategy is to reduce the cyclicality of Trinity’s earnings an increased shareholder return on invested capital.
Deferring profits now to achieve a premium stream of long-term sustainable earnings is a component of the strategy.
Our annual guidance also includes $20 million to $25 million of operating profit from railcar sales from the lease fleet.
Secondary market conditions for sales of leased railcars remains attractive at this time.
The exact timing of feature transaction is difficult to predict and we will update you on our activities throughout the year.
As a result of higher new railcar additions to the lease fleet we now plan to make a net investment in the lease fleet of approximately $530 million to $580 million in 2013 after taking into account the expected level of railcar sales.
The ramp-up in employment due to increase volumes in our businesses has cause our SE&amp;A expense to increase contributing to the first quarter increase in SE&amp;A were certain legal and consulting costs as well as higher compensation accruals due to better financial performance and expectations.
For the full year we expect SE&amp;A to be between 6.5% and 7.5% of revenues.
This level of SE&amp;A is incorporated in the annual business segment guidance I have provided.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2013 are expected to be between $160 million and $190 million.
We expect corporate expenses to be in the range of $65 million to $70 million for the year and we expect the tax rate of 36% to 38% during the remainder of the year.
Our guidance uses a full year weighted average share count of 77 million shares for purposes of calculating fully diluted EPS.
As a reminder we're required to report EPS using the two-class method of accounting the result from which is estimated to reduce EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.12 per share for the full year 2013 compared to calculating Trinity EPS directly from the phase of the income statement this is included in our EPS guidance.
Our results during 2013 will be influenced by multiple factors including the amount of operating leverage and efficiencies that our manufacturing businesses can achieve the level of sales and profitability of railcars the amount of profit eliminations due to railcar additions to the leasing group and the impact of weather conditions on our businesses.
In summary our employees are diligently meeting many opportunities and challenges presented to them.
In 2013 we expect to improve profitability and deliver strong year-over-year earnings per share growth of 19% to 27%.
While total net revenues increase at a more moderate pace.
This is a direct result of the hard work of our employees to achieve operating leverage and efficiencies from our long production runs.
We are very pleased with our first quarter results and look forward to building on the quarter’s performance during the rest of this year.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) With that we’ll go first to line of Eric Crawford with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess I just have a few questions mostly just around the theme is this as good as it gets following the tank car demand last quarter looks like it will be tough to match going forward but can you speak to the inquiry levels or we may not see orders beat Q1 is it fair to expect your backlog to continue trending higher or is there a concern that backlog takes down from here? Steve do you want to take that? Sure.
Good morning Eric.
Certainly the order levels in the first were extraordinary.
They were at a very high level.
It will be difficult to continue to that order level after an agreement with you.
But we continue to see strong order demand for tank cars.
We are serving the gas and chemicals industries.
We are also starting to see some inquires for small covered hoopers to support sand and construction product and the auto demand has been fairly constant.
So we are stilling seeing good strong demand although I don’t expect the order levels in the first -- comparable to those in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just on the orders you got in the quarter a competitor last week suggested they were being selective on which tank orders to bid and attempt to maximize margins.
I can see the record backlog number and the average price went up sequentially.
It sounds like if I heard the value of the orders that pricing came in pretty healthy.
But did you just address that concerns specifically pricing in the tank car market you saw in 1Q versus prior quarter? This is Steve again.
Eric we are very pleased with pricing levels.
I think the market has and generally behaved rationally and we are very pleased with the orders that we received in the quarter.
And we continue to see strong pricing trends both in the sale market as well as the leasing market.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And lastly assuming relatively flat build going forward I would expect to see some margin improvement coming through just from better priced products in the backlog.
But we also expect benefit from more efficient production from some of your newer facilities as a ramp up to learning curve.
I guess you’ve given the margin guidance to put for the year.
But how should we think about framing the margin profile going forward longer term? Yeah.
Eric Steve again.
I think I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we would certainly strive to see improving trend over the long-term with some line changeovers that we have scheduled in the second quarter.
We may have some headwinds on margins in the near term.
But certainly our expectations and our goals are to improve the efficiencies over the long-term.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
We will next to side of Steve Barger with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Steve you reiterated that orders are non-cancelable but given the lead times in your backlog are you concerned about any double ordering in the industry? Are you looking at customer credit or are you requiring deposits from anyone? Yeah.
Steve thank you.
Good question.
Again we want to emphasize our orders are non-cancelable.
I think one of the interesting things that we’ve now witnessed thus far in this marketplace is a rash of speculative buying so that the orders that are being placed are very serious orders.
We indeed are taking deposits from customer for extended orders going out into the ’14 and ‘15 timeframes.
So we are highly confident about the solid nature of our backlog.
That’s great.
Are you seeing non-traditional tank customers coming in? Is that what’s really driving some of this or this normal shippers and lessors placing the orders? It’s been largely on the tank car side refiners in exploration and production companies.
We’ve seen other lessors placing orders and we also see other industrial shippers as well as rail roads.
So we’ve had some good diversification in our customer base and I have not seen any thing extraordinary or any brand new entrants coming into the marketplace.
Got it.
I heard you say that there is going to be some margin headwinds in 2Q from line changeovers.
But just looking at the margin profile of the quarter and your backlog was there anything unusual this quarter in terms of mix or efficiencies that should make us think this margin is a real outlier or is it just you’ve realizing the benefits of good pricing in the long production runs? I really think it’s for the latter Steve.
Just very pleased with the performance of our operating teams.
We’ve really seen the benefits of the extended production runs that we have planned and our leadership and our fields have really done a great job in process and in realizing the efficiencies that we are capable of gaining.
Okay.
And then last one and then I will get back in line.
Another leasing company indicated they published a lease price index and improved 30% last quarter.
Is that a reasonable way to think about the renewals in your lease fleet? And related question for new leases that you are signing right now is pricing up versus what you saw last year? We don’t talk specifically about our renewal increases or changes.
But again as I made comment we are very pleased with the renewal trends both in terms and lease rates and clearly new car pricing is up both on the sale and lease side compared to last year.
Very good.
I’ll get back in line.
Thank you.
And we will go next to the line of Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
On the capacity additions I think you alluded to -- you didn't really announced anything but are you thinking just because of the level of the order inquiries that you are still getting and I'm talking about the rail segment that you may need to add some capacity as we go forward into 2014? Steve go ahead.
Yeah.
I’m sorry.
I didn’t hear the first part of your question.
Excuse me.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I have a bit of a cold too.
Just on the capacity additions that you guys alluded to nothing was -- it was announcement but is it due to some of the level of order inquiries that you are receiving on the rail side that you might need to? Well it’s Tim.
As I said we continue to review options for expanding our existing manufacturing capacity to sort of any market where there is a strong demand and we won’t anticipate that it’s a sustainable demand and it will get the returns on it.
And the additional capacity that we acquired last fall has been very helpful to us in a number of our different products not just in the rail area.
We have -- our both facilities are becoming multi purpose facilities.
And that’s the ideal type of facility that we like to operate.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then you touched on leasing the third-party potential opportunity.
So I think this is something similar to what you did with TRIP a couple of years ago? I’m sorry Allison.
With the which fees?  The third-party leasing transaction that you guys were talking about the interest on that side.
Yeah.
Like we said there has been a lot of interest in that space.
We’ve obviously had some nice debt transactions over the last year especially in the fourth quarter.
So there is a lot of capital markets interest and we’ve seen that on the equity side as well.
But to your point it’s a lot like when the market was strong six years ago when we conducted the TRIP transaction nothing to talk about specifically at this time.
But there has been a lot of conversation there.
We are very optimistic that we are going to get opportunities there and we look into see the best way to take advantage of people that want to partner with us on this leasing railcar strength.
Okay.
Great.
And then Bill I think this one is for you.
I was in the camp with the MAP-21 bill that we probably see some improvement on the highway side.
But new customs and their regional -- the side of things that are they not getting funding or they not -- I’m just confused that why that isn’t I guess working out the way we thought it was? Yeah.
Allison the funding is starting to come through really started to kind of kicking off in March.
Unfortunately it was combined with some pretty poor weather conditions throughout the central part of the U.S.
and that’s in the Northeast.
So I think the business will start.
But as I said one of the drags we have in the marketplace is that states still need to come up with a small matching amount and states are struggling at the funding level on how to take care of their transportation projects.
So we’ll just have to monitor it quarter-by-quarter.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to line of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
You touched on this a little bit earlier but I was hoping you could give us a little more detail on the capacity reallocations you've done to help you capture such a significant share of industry orders in the rail business namely sort of where is this coming from? Where is it geographically? And how much could you potentially shift to rail from other segments that are still producing other products should demand warrant down the road? Yeah.
This is Tim.
Our capacity allocation is a corporate wide function and we look at the facilities that we have backlog of orders that they have in the various facilities and the competency of the workforce in the facilities.
And then we look at the demands that are coming in for our various products and our leadership here does a terrific job at the operation management level of trying to utilize our facilities for the highest and best usage.
And so we are very confident at shifting facilities fairly quickly and it’s a very dynamic situation.
So it’s difficult to say that something is going to be static in that area.
It really depends on the demand flow and the perceive profitability and returns that we think we get.
And we still have some additional facility capacity that we can find.
And we’re shifting this between our containers group our barge group and our railcar group as well as some other smaller products that we may have.
So it’s not like one major shift.
It’s a combination of endless shifting that occurs within our company.
And we have the objective of enriching our earnings by shifting and utilizing our facilities this way.
Okay.
And perhaps a higher level one for Tim here.
Things are going really well right now.
You’ve got a $5 billion railcar backlog.
You’ve got production visibility out two years or so.
And margins are at record levels but when you look at the 2014 2015 what is it that you worry about that could perhaps change things and what are you doing or can you do it to make sure it doesn’t happen? So one of the key challenge is that we have is getting the new employees that we’re hiring on board trained appropriately and integrated into our company as well as some of the new management type people and supervisors that we have.
So human resource is always a key area that we focus on when we are growing like we’re growing.
At the same time this year and as we look at it as James said our revenue is relatively flat.
And so we have to have teams of people working inside the company to drive the operating efficiencies and the operating leverage and then the utilization of our facilities like I just mentioned.
So mainly our concern right now is being able to ensure that everybody is in the right place at the right time to maximize the shareholder value as best we can.
At the same time we’re looking at the markets and demand levels that we anticipate will be out in the future.
And then we’ve got new product developments that we’re looking at both organic and externally.
All right.
Well thanks for the time guys.
We’ll go next to the line of Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
You mentioned that you’ve had a pickup in terms of inquiries for some of the covered hopper equipment.
I’m just curious to see if you have any visibility with respect to when those inquiries could actually turn into orders? Steve? Well hopefully all the order inquiries turn to orders.
But I would say Matt the inquiries that we have for small covered hoppers are serious inquiries.
We have booked some orders here in the second quarter in that direction.
And so I really think the demand we’re seeing is at the beginning of a trend that we hope will continue for the balance of the year.
Okay.
Is it potentially kind of a steady ramp into the second half or I mean do you have any incremental visibility in terms of when those orders could hit? I think we’re little early in the cycle to really be able to determine that.
We originally have thought that the frac sand market would recover in the second half of 2013.
We’re starting to see some early inquiries in some orders that would support that.
But I would certainly like to see the trend go a little longer before I was ready to proclaim as steady recovery in that market.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then what -- in terms of the plastic pellet market have you seen inquiries pick up there as well for covered hoppers? We’ve not.
We have had some inquiries.
I still think the capacity for plastics and resins that come on stream is still a little far out.
And as we get a little closer I think late ‘15 2016 we’ll start to see those inquiries pickup for those products.
Okay.
And then I think in someone’s prepared comments mentioned that two of the DMI facilities are currently being used to produce multiple products.
Just I haven’t heard anything about the third facility in terms of what’s being done there? Yeah.
This is Tim.
We’re still looking at a variety of different opportunities for that facility.
We think we’re optimistic on opportunities that we see but as of right now what we’ve been doing is focusing on fulfilling the demand and pursuing the orders that we have in the other areas of the facilities that we’re currently operating when we took them over.
And this is how we run our business.
Idled plants kind of sit in Bay until the existing plants are full of business.
And we’ve got the operating leverage and the operating efficiency going before we try to bring on more incremental production.
We rather milk the maximum out of profitability that we can from an existing facility instead of diluting it by taking some of those products to an idle facility.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just my final question the wind tower facilities that were converted to manufactured railcars.
Are you at full utilization on those facilities at this point? No.
We are coming up the curve and we’re having really good results with those facilities.
As Steve and I have said and I think James even said we’re really pleased with the performance of our group to be able to make such a smooth transition as they have and deliver the type of results that they have in that particular area.
When Steve talks about line changeovers he is not referring to line changeovers that are associated with wind towers converting to tank cars.
He is talking about line changeovers at the product line level.
Right Steve.
Yeah.
Within our freight car sector we have line changeovers from product to product.
Okay.
Understood.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to site of Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Most of my questions have been asked or answered.
But Steve you were giving so many numbers.
I didn’t catch the percentage of the backlog currently going into Trinity leasing? Yeah.
Backlog -- this is James Tom.
The backlog right now they had come to leasing was about $900 million out of $5.1 billion.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to site of Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Morning everyone.
Hey on Tom’s question is it possible could you have discussions with existing customers for those third-party sales at overtime maybe those could convert to leases? Art this is Steve.
Yeah.
That is possible.
And I think one of the attractive benefits of our customers working with Trinity Rail is our ability to both sell end lease cars and work with customers on that basis.
So there is some chance that leases convert to sale.
And we also have chance that some times customers look at things a little different and want to lease some cars rather than buying too.
So our flexibility does play into that.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just my second question because all my other ones have been answered.
Regarding the backlog mix obviously was everything going on in the energy market tank as we all understand is a big portion of the backlog.
But have you seen a change within the mix within the backlog where you’ve now seen more and more opportunities to move heavy crude out of Canada and that would require different car type.
Have you seen a change in the mix and if so could that or how would that maybe have an impact on margins as you have to readjust to that change in manufacturing builds? The different types of crude oil being transported sometimes require different configurations in the railcars.
Further south it has a different configuration than the Canadian cars would be required to have.
And we really don’t see margin differences.
We’ve seen strong demand for both car types.
I think there is probably more Canadian crude to come under market place so we may see more cars in demand configured to be able to support those movements.
But we view those cars as both marketable within the crude oil sector as well as other products beyond crude oil.
And we’re pleased to manufacture them both and lease them both.
So we’re well positioned to be able to respond to their trend.
Great.
Tim.
We -- I'm sorry this is Tim.
We manufacture those on the same line.
So it’s not really -- you can -- you're doing them simultaneously.
Absolutely.
So it’s really not a major changeover for us to switch from one car type to other there.
They are happening together routinely along with variety of other types of tank cars.
Good.
Just as a follow-up to that as we see any changes do you see maybe the demand patterns change a little bit with those different car types.
Do you think they’ll be pretty consistent with where they’ve been over the last -- as with regards to mix within the backlog? Good question Art.
We’re in the early stages of the game here.
And I think there is so much yet to be developed and infrastructure to be developed transportation patterns to be developed.
It’s really hard to make that type of projection but right now we are very comfortable with where we’re positioned to respond to the demand for cars to serve the different markets.
Great.
Hey thanks for your time this morning.
We’ll go next to the site of Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just a -- first a quick question on the changeover costs in 2Q -- I’m sorry if I missed that earlier.
Did you mention what the magnitude of those costs could be in 2Q? Sal this is James.
We did not give a magnitude.
We simply indicated there was a headwind and we may see some margins if they are in the near term but didn’t give quantification of that.
Okay.
Is there any chance that to bleed into third quarter? You know really it’s more of a near-term thing for us.
We are not specific on that and that’s another reason why we’re really focused on the annual guidance for the group which we increased from the previous guidance for rail both on the revenue and the margin side.
So we’re seeing nice trends but you’re going to see near-term headwind and exactly the timing of that is hard to nail down.
But we’ll focus more on the second quarter there.
Okay.
And then just bigger picture just looking at the margin potential going forward like it was mentioned earlier you’re pretty much at peak margins at this point.
So given the higher profitability of tank cars I’m just curious what your view is on what the peak could be in this cycle if we look at to calendar ‘14 or even ‘15.
How much more margin potential do you have at this point? This is James again.
As Steve mentioned earlier we’re certainly looking to drive efficiencies.
We’re going to have as we mentioned in the second quarter some headwinds occasionally as we do changeover for specific products.
As we’ve talked about it’s our best quarter we’ve had in that respect.
From margin perspective we’ve got a very strong backlog in visibility.
We’re certainly challenging the teams to continue to drive efficiencies.
And right now looking at the 15% to 17% margin for the group.
For this year all we’re able to really project openly beyond that we will have to kind of wait and see how these come through and give that guidance as we get closer.
Sal this is Tim.
I don’t look at this as peak margins.
I think that our people are challenged to continuously improve in this particular area.
And we’re not -- I'm not accepting that these are peak margins.
So I think we’ve got some opportunities on the horizon to continue to drive greater margins.
Okay.
That’s fair.
Is there -- can you give a little bit of color on how much of the say margin expansion over the last couple of quarters which is roughly 800 basis points.
How much of that was due to efficiencies and how far along you are there in terms of gaining efficiencies? How much do you have left do you think? Yeah.
We really can’t breakdown the difference in pricing versus efficiencies in those five things.
Again to Tim’s point we’re certainly challenged to continue to improve that opportunity on efficiency side but breaking that down specifically is difficult.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Sal let me just follow-up on those two comments for a moment.
Continuously price has increased in our railcars and with the steady production as we’ve laid out our plans here with our backlogs we certainly have goals to continue to improve our margins.
So I think we’re well positioned the time will tell whether or not we’re able to execute.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Actually just one last question if you could.
I think you said your tank car backlog extends into ‘16 -- into 2016.
Can you give a sense for how much of the total tank car backlog is ‘15 and ‘16? Yeah.
I think what I said is our total backlog extends into ‘15 and ‘16.
I’m sorry.
But we don’t break out how much we have each year or what car types those are.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We’ve a follow-up question from the line of Eric Crawford of UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Thanks for the time and all the color.
Just had one more on the guidance you raised the Rail Group revenue guidance but maintained deliveries.
So just wondering if the change there is you guys moving close to the upper end of the deliveries range or is that just a reflection of maybe repricing some of the deliveries to reflect input cost? Yeah.
Sure Eric.
This is James.
I think its sum of all the above.
As we’re looking we continue to refine our delivery schedules for the year.
We see where that is within the range.
As to your point didn’t change the range and where that falls exactly is difficult to project right now.
But part of it is we continue to fill in pieces of the production schedule and get more refined on that and see where the pricing for those cars is.
The combination of those two took the revenue up slightly.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
We go to next to line of Barry Haimes with Sage Asset Management.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
I have a question on the leasing position and the profitability.
You talked about the mid expense being higher and I wanted to get a sense for whether that’s a more lasting upward expense because of greater age or so on or is this something that’s relatively short-term in nature and will revert back down? Just a little more color around that.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Good question Barry.
Thank you.
The timing of maintenance and regulatory testing can be very uneven and it’s very difficult to project and it does have a near-term impact on margin.
Our first quarter maintenance expenses were abnormally high due to a lot of timing issues.
But I would say in general that we expect a higher level of maintenance than in previous years as a result of the increasing age of our fleet increased mileage and increased regulatory compliance requirement.
So long-term I think the trend is going to see increased revenue expenses as a percentage of -- increased maintenance expenses as a percentage of revenue.
I think the first quarter was abnormally high due to timing issues.
Great.
Thanks.
And then maybe just one follow-up to your earlier question.
You haven’t deal with pricing and you talked about why you still see prices moving in an upper direction.
So I presume that the pricing in the backlog and pressure on margins are affecting the backlog is greater than where we are right now is that a fair way to think about it? Well maybe.
We always have a mix issue and we have a number of other different products entering into that equation so.
But I think with products demand is strong as we are seeing positive pricing trends.
Great.
Thanks very much.
We’ve a follow-up question from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I think you said you have $900 million of the cars in the backlog going to the lease fleet.
And if I have the 1Q number right I think your guidance implies you will add $600 million to $650 million for the remainder of the year.
So if we just hold everything else equal and deliveries were flat in 20 000 does that suggest there’d be more third-party cars shipped next year which I think would result in higher manufacturing revenue and profit? Hey Steve.
This is James.
To your overall point you are looking at it somewhat correct and when you do the math.
One thing -- in the first quarter we had $198 million of eliminations releasing.
So you’re close to 200 of that numbers.
So just to be sure where apple-to-apples that are from the press release comments then we can help you on through the Qs as we release that later today.
But to your point a lot of that those cars dedicated to leasing right now are slated for this year given the numbers that you are backing into that respect.
We will shift to leasing next year and going forward we’ll see but to your point that doesn’t pull more external in future years given where we’re today.
Got it.
Thanks which obviously would imply better absorption through the manufacturing arm and that sort of thing right? Well the absorption on manufacturing the same.
They are building the car the way the only difference is what gets eliminated from the revenue and profit line at the bottom of the consolidation.
Got it.
Thanks.
Well looks like that concludes today’s conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 o’clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on May 8 2013.
The access number is 402-220-0116.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to: estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter Results Conference Call from Trinity Industries.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's program maybe recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Gail Peck.
You may begin.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries' Second Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with our strong financial results for the second quarter and the successful launch in May of our new Railcar Leasing joint venture.
This joint venture enhances our financial flexibility and provides us another option for financing the growth of our Railcar Leasing business.
Our Rail Group had a great second quarter.
They have a large amount of positive momentum occurring at this time.
I continue to be impressed with their ability to produce strong financial results while converting manufacturing space and making line changeovers.
Our Inland Barge Group's financial results were in line with our expectations.
They are currently repositioning some manufacturing capacity from dry cargo barges to tank barges.
This conversion will enhance their manufacturing flexibility.
The second quarter financial performance of our Energy Equipment Group improved considerably over the same quarter last year.
Demand for containers to store energy-related products remains strong and our Structural Wind Tower business continues to improve.
I'm pleased with the results we're obtaining from the efforts to reposition our Construction Products Group.
The integration of our recently acquired trench shoring business along with the integration of our new aggregates business positively impacted the second quarter financial performance of the Construction Products Group.
I continue to be pleased with the results we are obtaining from the manufacturing facilities we acquired late last year that are now operating as multipurpose facilities.
For example in one plant we're manufacturing wind towers rail cars and containers for energy products.
We will continue to devote resources to identify and pursue additional opportunities to expand and enhance our manufacturing flexibility.
One of Trinity's key differentiating strengths is the ability of our businesses to work together to create value by leveraging their combined expertise competencies and manufacturing capacity to produce products with a strong demand.
The enterprise-wide integration of our business platforms gives us a bird's eye view of our markets.
This viewpoint helps us pursue opportunities to deploy our resources in ways that better serve our customers and enhance shareholder value.
Such is the case in the energy markets today.
We're continuing to build momentum to serve customers in the oil gas and chemical industries.
We plan to continue to expand and enhance our competencies so that we can grow our base of customers in the energy markets.
I'm highly optimistic about Trinity's future.
Sustainable progress drives our business activities and is the fuel that enables us to continually raise our performance standards.
Trinity's financial health has never been better.
The backlog visibility in our major businesses should position them to continue to generate additional operating efficiencies.
Our operating business platforms continue to build momentum and our employees are creating value through a number of collaborative initiatives.
We are continuing to invest resources to identify and pursue opportunities to add new businesses to our portfolio.
We are looking for businesses with additional competencies and products that fit within our portfolio of businesses.
Our corporate vision is to become a premiere diversified industrial company that provides superior products and services to customers while generating high quality earnings and returns for shareholders.
We're making significant progress towards achieving -- accomplishing our vision as a result of the quality and talents of our people the strength of our businesses the depth of our operational capabilities and our commitment to excellence and continuous improvement.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Our Energy Equipment Group's revenue for the second quarter increased approximately 17% year-over-year primarily due to increased shipments of energy containers and other related products.
The group reported an operating profit of $14.3 million a margin of 9.4%.
These results reflect significant improvement in year-over-year performance following the manufacturing challenges we experienced in our wind tower business last year.
During the quarter we received $22 million of new structural wind tower orders.
The wind tower industry is gaining momentum since the IRS clarified the qualifications for the production tax credit.
Quoting activity has increased and we are well positioned to obtain orders.
We continue to monitor our production capacity and are prepared to adjust and respond to changes in market demand.
Demand for bulk storage containers to hold energy-related products is continuing to build.
We are actively looking at opportunities to further expand our product portfolio in this market.
Our Construction Products Group generated an operating profit of $19 million during the second quarter a 48% increase compared to the same quarter a year ago.
The improved revenue and profit performance is a direct result to the repositioning efforts underway to align the group's product line with those that have more consistent demand drivers.
We are pleased with the integration of the recently acquired Lightweight Aggregates and trench shoring businesses both of which contributed nicely to the second quarter results.
These businesses are markets directly related to infrastructure replacement and expansion.
The Highway Products market continues to be constrained by tight state budgets.
We expect demand for highway products to remain relatively slow until there is improvement in funding at both the state and federal levels.
In anticipation of an eventual recovery and a significant need to upgrade the infrastructure system in the United States we will continue to pursue growth opportunities in this market.
Our Inland Barge Group experienced a year-over-year decline in both revenues and profits resulting from softer pricing on hopper barges coupled with the delivery of a specialty barge order in the second quarter of last year which enhanced earnings.
Demand for hopper barges continues to be weak.
Many hopper barges are idle due to reduced coal and grain shipments.
We are watching these markets closely and are positioned for a pickup in activity.
In the meantime we are slowing operations at one of our hopper barge facilities.
During the quarter we secured $231 million of new barge orders increasing our barge backlog to $564 million at the end of June.
The vast majority of the orders support the movement of petroleum and chemical products.
As we discussed in our last call in response to the strong demand for tank barges we are enhancing one of our tank barge facilities to accommodate a few additional production slots.
We expect these improvements to be completed by the end of summer.
In addition we are in the process of repositioning our hopper barge facility to manufacture smaller tank barges.
Overall I am pleased with the performance of our business unit teams.
We remain focused on organic and startup business opportunities that provide products which support the infrastructure market.
At this time I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
I am very pleased with the operating performance of our Rail and Leasing groups during the second quarter.
Record operating profit driven by increased railcar shipments for the Rail Group combined with higher operating profit from operations and improved utilization for the Leasing Group reflect the focused efforts of our dedicated TrinityRail team and the benefits of our integrated manufacturing and leasing business model.
Our Leasing Group continues to generate strong returns and contribute steady cash flows to the company.
Operating profit from operations increased 16% compared to the second quarter of 2012 due to lease fleet additions and higher lease rates for rail cars serving the oil gas and chemicals industries.
Our lease utilization at the end of the second quarter was 98.7% up slightly from the previous quarter due to increased demand for both large and small covered hoppers.
We sold a small group of rail cars during the quarter as we continued to strategically manage our lease portfolio.
While the secondary market remains active we do not currently forecast additional lease week sales in 2013.
During the second quarter we added approximately 1 600 new railcars to our wholly-owned lease fleet portfolio.
Our total lease portfolio including partially-owned subsidiaries now stands at approximately 74 065 railcars an increase of 5% year-over-year.
At the end of the quarter approximately 17% of the units in our railcar order backlog with a total value of $880 million were slated for customers of our leasing business.
The formation of our newly announced Railcar Leasing joint venture is very exciting.
RIV 2013 brings additional capital resources to Trinity and increases TrinityRail's flexibility to respond to customer needs for leased railcars.
Having the capital resources to meet the leasing needs of industrial shippers through our partnerships with the long-term equity investors is a competitive advantage.
Our financial flexibility much like our operating flexibility in manufacturing allows us to respond effectively to customer demand.
During the second quarter the Rail Group delivered 5 600 railcars and generated our highest ever quarterly operating profit for the second consecutive quarter.
In spite of line change orders during the quarter operating efficiencies continued to advance throughout the quarter resulting from a consistent product mix and a well-trained more productive workforce.
As a result of these operating improvements and a broadening of demand for freight rail cars we have increased our delivery guidance for 2013 to between 23 000 and 24 500 railcars.
North American railcar orders in the second quarter reflect an improving demand for a broader mix of freight cars.
The strength of industry orders contributed to another increase in the industry production backlog.
I'm very pleased with the orders TrinityRail received.
As we anticipated orders received in the second quarter and the level of third quarter market activity indicates demand returning in the second half of 2013 for a small cube-covered hoppers to serve both the frac sand and construction markets.
We are also continuing to see steady demand for auto racks as North American production of automobiles increases.
To date weather patterns support a strong harvest including the potential covered hopper demand later in the year.
During the second quarter we received orders for 5 000 new railcars including tank cars covered hoppers and auto racks from railroads third-party lessors and industrial shippers.
As a result of the orders we received our order backlog stand at 40 665 railcars with a value of approximately $5.1 billion.
Our orders are firm noncancelable and in some instances of large orders with deliveries in future timeframes include significant deposits.
We have not seen a rash of speculative take out purchases.
Many of our large orders are purchases by oil producers and refiners and by our leasing company for specific customers.
The visibility provided by our extended order backlog to plan stable production into 2015 with high-quality customers continues to differentiate this railcar market cycle from others in the past.
While second quarter tank car orders eased compared to the elevated first quarter level overall increase for tank cars remained steady.
We continue to believe the rail transportation for crude oil will grow further in the long term and the demand -- and the growth of downstream-refined products requiring rail cars will be significant as well.
A substantial number of new tank cars have been absorbed into the crude oil rail market.
It takes time to integrate an influx of new equipment into operations and to properly coordinate transportation supply with oil production demand.
As such we do expect there to be some ebb and flow to the order pattern for railcars serving these markets similar to what we've seen in other fast-growing markets as the necessary infrastructure and downstream supply changes develop.
The level of existing and planned capital investment by railroads oil producers refineries and pipeline and storage companies clearly establishes a very meaningful role for rail in the transportation of crude oil.
Based on our discussions with customers we believe these investment decisions are not predicated on a short-term crude oil spread differentials but on long-term fundamentals for oil supply and demand.
Overall we continue to see evidence that the energy renaissance will be long term in nature and TrinityRail is very well positioned to provide railcars for the resulting demand.
Our markets are constantly evolving and changing.
Our integrated railcar manufacturing and leasing platform positions us to respond to various market changes quickly and effectively as they develop.
Given the outstanding way in which our TrinityTrail team has responded to recent market shifts I'm confident our operating and financial flexibility will support a successful response to any future market changes as well.
I'll now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we reported strong second quarter results with the growth in earnings per share of 26% over last year resulting in the most profitable second quarter in Trinity's history.
Our second quarter results exceeded the quarterly earnings guidance that we provided in May.
All of our business groups performed somewhat better than we anticipated led by the Rail Group which had higher deliveries due to better-than-planned efficiencies.
In addition we had a lower effective tax rate during the quarter due to benefits resulting from domestic production activities and the tax treatment of the company's noncontrolling interest.
During the second quarter we purchased 1.3 million shares of our common stock in the open market for a total of $49.9 million.
Our current share repurchase program now has $150 million of remaining authority through the end of 2014.
Additionally as previously announced in May we increased the dividend by 18% effective with the July payment made yesterday.
Subsequent to quarter end and scheduled to close later today we are pleased to announce that RIV 2013 our Railcar Leasing investment portfolio formed in the second quarter purchased an additional portfolio of railcars from Trinity Industries Leasing Company valued at $246 million.
This brings total RIV 2013 railcar purchases to approximately $700 million since the formation of the joint venture in May.
The purchases were financed with the issuance of $183 million of long-term asset-backed debt with a coupon rate of 3.9% an equity of $74 million 69% of which was funded by our joint venture partners.
Approximately $83 million of equity commitments are remaining to complete the $1 billion railcar portfolio.
Today's transaction is expected to increase Trinity's cash on a net basis by approximately $210 million.
I will now turn to our current outlook for 2013.
For 2013 we have raised our expectations for earnings per share for the full year to between $4.20 and $4.40 including the effect of discontinued operations which has a small impact on our results in the second quarter but is not anticipated to further impact the results for the remainder of the year.
At this time we are not providing quarterly earnings guidance.
We have raised our railcar delivery guidance for the year in anticipation of an increase to our production levels during the third and fourth quarters.
The increase in production and the impact of profit elimination on railcar delivered into our lease fleet make it difficult to forecast the precise timing of certain deliveries and the impact that these deliveries will have on our earnings.
In the Rail Group we are increasing our 2013 revenue guidance to between $2.7 billion and $2.9 billion based on the increased delivery guidance of between 23 000 and 24 500 railcars.
This guidance reflects a step up in deliveries in the third quarter and comparable deliveries in the fourth quarter.
We expect the full year operating margin of between 16% and 17.5% for the Rail Group.
This group continues to post solid margins and maintains an order backlog of $5.1 billion of railcars for future deliveries.
In the Inland Barge Group we expect full year revenues of between $550 million and $570 million in 2013 slightly lower than our previous guidance due to weak demand for hopper barges.
We continue to see strong fundamentals in the tank barge market and maintain our operating margin guidance of between 14% and 16% for the year.
In the Energy Equipment Group we are increasing our 2013 revenue guidance to between $620 million and $640 million based on an improvement in demand for Structural Wind Towers and for our storage containers that serve the oil gas and chemicals markets.
We are tightening the range of operating margin for the year to between 8.5% and 10% given the visibility that we currently have.
In the Construction Products Group we expect full year revenues of between $520 million and $540 million in 2013 and are guiding to a tighter operating margin of between 9.5% and 10.5% primarily due to softness in the Highway Products business.
As a reminder seasonality is a factor in this business segment's results and the second and third quarters typically represent the high points of the year for the construction season.
In the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group we are increasing our 2013 revenue and operating profit guidance to between $580 million and $600 million and between $260 million and $280 million respectively due to higher rates on our lease renewals for railcars.
This guidance excludes any revenue and profit from sales of railcars from the lease fleet.
We now anticipate slightly lower revenue and deferred profit eliminations from new railcar additions to the lease fleet.
We are expecting between $775 million and $825 million of revenue eliminations and between $130 million and $150 million of operating profit elimination due to the addition of new railcars to the lease fleet.
As a reminder the operating results for our railcar leasing joint ventures TRIP in RIV 2013 are fully consolidated within the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group.
The earnings related to the equity not held by Trinity are deducted from Trinity's net income due to the noncontrolling interest line at the bottom of the income statement.
We expect between $12 million and $16 million of earnings to be deducted in 2013.
Due to TRIP and RIV 2013's partnership tax status it is important to note that the taxes are not applied to the amount of noncontrolling earnings deducted.
The recent TRIP and RIV 2013 transactions were incorporated in our previous guidance.
However the amount of earnings deducted in our current guidance is now slightly higher due to the increased forecast of income from these portfolios.
During the first half of the year we recorded operating profit of $11.5 million from lease fleet railcar sales.
Our annual guidance does not include any operating profit from railcar sales from the lease fleet during the second half of the year.
We will continue to be an active participant in the secondary market and we'll evaluate opportunities to conduct external sales and fleet acquisitions as they arise.
During 2013 we now plan to make a net investment in new railcars for the lease fleet of approximately $585 million to $615 million.
This guidance includes 100% of the investment in new railcars that will be sold to the RIV 2013 lease fleet and takes into account projected lower proceeds from lease fleet railcar sales to third parties.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2013 are expected to be between $140 million and $170 million.
We now expect corporate expenses to be in the range of $70 million to $75 million for the year.
Primarily as a result of TRIP's conversion to and RIV 2013's election of partnership tax status we now expect a tax rate of 35% to 36% during the remainder of the year.
Our guidance uses the full year weighted average share count of 76.5 million shares for purposes of calculating fully-diluted EPS.
As a reminder we're required to report EPS using the 2 class method of accounting the results of which should be the reduction of EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.15 per share for the full year 2013 compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
This is included in our EPS guidance.
Our results in 2013 will be influenced by multiple factors including: the amount of operating leverage inefficiencies that our manufacturing businesses can achieve; the level of sales and profitability of railcars; the amount of profit eliminations due to railcar additions to the Leasing Group; and the impact of weather conditions on our businesses.
Our full year guidance reflects earnings per share growth of 32% to 38% compared to 2012.
It would result in a record annual earnings for Trinity.
This is a remarkable accomplishment and certain areas of our company have yet to experience the benefits of the pickup in the broader economy.
We continue to see positive momentum and our employees are focused on setting the bar higher.
We continue to seek investment opportunities both organically and externally that will add value to our diversified industrial portfolio.
As we consider external opportunities we're focused on those that enhance our competencies complement our product offering and expand our reach in the markets that we are pursuing.
Our acquisition strategy includes a number of criteria the most important of which is increasing shareholder value.
We plan to allocate our capital accordingly.
We are very deliberate in our search and finding opportunities that meet our criteria requires patience.
The formation of RIV 2013 in May achieves specific objectives for the company: to attract and partner with long-term equity investors; and to increase the amount of capital available to grow the lease fleet and our diversified investor portfolio of businesses.
We see opportunities to replicate this transaction in the future.
With our strong liquidity position of more than $1.3 billion including the cash we expect to receive from RIV 2013 later today and proven access to the capital markets most recently enhanced as a result of Standard &amp; Poor's upgrade of the company to investment grade we are well-positioned to move forward with the growth elements of our strategy.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We will now start with Steve Barger of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First for Steve you did deliver your guidance up by a couple of thousand cars.
Can you tell us how much of that is from tank given increased capacity and how much is related to other car types? Well as you know Steve we don't typically break down our production.
But in this case I would say we're increasing both tank and freight.
As I mentioned we've seen a broader demand across more car types in the freight sector which gave us some encouragement to increase our production there.
And we've seen productivity improvements that have allowed us to increase our tank car productions.
So I would tell you it's both.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And when you think about your book-to-bill from 1Q to 2Q and I understand it's a lumpy business is there any reason to think that you can't maintain your normal market share given whatever level of inquiries you're seeing right now or for the back half? Yes this is Steve again.
As you know we don't focus on market share.
But clearly we see demand continuing to remain steady in the tank car sector and have seen a broadening of demand in freight cars.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And James I've got a question for you.
It seems like you're feeling pretty confident about visibility here given the size of the guidance increase and the opportunities you described for capital allocation.
I know it's too early to talk specifics for next year but is there any structural reason why earnings can't be up in 2014 versus wherever you end up in 2013? Yes Steve I'm going to let Tim address that.
I think he talked about it some in his script and I'll let Tim kind of give you a bigger picture on that.
Okay.
Steve as I stated in my comments a few minutes ago and James kind of echoed these sustainable progress really drives our business activities.
It's the fuel that enables us to continuously raise our performance standards.
And as Steve said in his script he's got a lot of initiatives going on and you -- he's been able to increase his production because additional capacity became available due to efficiencies.
And historically when we have -- the momentum that we have occurring right now combined with the backlogs that we have the longer our production lines run the more operating efficiencies we're able to obtain.
And I expect this trend to continue.
And it's really hard to quantify this number and that's why we're even at a stage right now of giving 6 months guidance on a good portion of our business because we don't really know how large the efficiencies are going to be and can't really break that down into how many cents per share that will generate in earnings.
But as we look to the future where we've got the rail backlog it's nearly 2 years and that's great visibility and our barge backlog visibility goes deep into 2014 I will assure you that we're going to look for ways to generate more operating efficiencies and leverage across all of our lines of business.
Right now we're not prepared to talk specifics about 2014 but there's a lot of good positive momentum moving here.
And then on top of that when James mentioned at the end of his speech he was talking about the liquidity being available after this transaction completes now of $1.3 billion.
This provides us with significant capital to pursue growth opportunities.
And I just think we're in a really really strong healthy financial position right now and we've got a lot of good momentum so we should expect to continue to improve.
We'll now take a question from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just going back to I guess the increase in deliveries you did bump up the margin expectations for the Rail Group.
Should I be assuming there's some level of line startups or -- that are going to sort of offset some of the productivity efficiencies that you're getting in tank right now to kind of keep a lid on that number near term? Steve do you want to handle that? Allison again some of our increase in production really comes from this greater efficiency and seeing productivity improvements from a better trained well-trained workforce.
And as Tim talked about when we have that type of visibility in our backlogs and a stable workforce we can really do some things to improve our processes initiate lean changes in our manufacturing.
So we really feel confident about the position we're in.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then there's been a lot of noise lately about lease rates collapsing in the tank car market and maybe there's sort of a near-term oversupply.
And can you kind of address what you're seeing there right now? Sure Allison.
So I haven't seen any collapse in lease rates.
And really when you look across the spectrum of the entire North American fleet you see that rail car supply is very much in line with rail car demand.
Couple that with the backlogs that we have in production I don't see any reason why lease rates should decline.
And that's certainly not the evidence we have in our renewals.
LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then Bill I guess in the conversion of the tank barge facility I know you talked about it being complete in the summer.
Is there any way to quantify that impact in the quarter to your profits? Allison James has included the impact into his revenue and I think actually we'll have better impact in '14 when we get that fully running.
So we'll sneak a little bit of it into this year but better results in '14.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just meaning like the impact I guess of the slower production as a result of that conversion.
I mean is there -- was it 100 basis points just the cost related to that? No it's primarily a conversion to add additional units into the facility.
So we'll get more units more revenue.
Call side should be very similar.
We'll now take a question from Eric Crawford with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious what factors account for the low and high end of your railcar deliveries guidance at this point? Eric this is James.
I think we always give ranges.
As we look out in the precise delivery schedules while we have a production schedule we worked toward Steve's scene [ph] is always looking at the types of cars that we put into those businesses.
We've expanded some facilities.
We've talked about line change over this last quarter.
And so as you go through a year that firms up as we go along.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just as far as the cadence of deliveries for the remainder of the year.
Just to clarify you mentioned an increase in deliveries in the third and fourth quarters.
Are you calling out a sequential increase from 3Q to 4Q or just highlighting deliveries above 2Q levels? Yes.
This is James again.
What I mentioned in my script was we'll have a step up in deliveries in the third quarter then the comparable level than the deliveries in Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just switching over to barge are those additional tank barge build slots on schedule for the end of summer? Bill you wanted to take that? Yes.
For the end of 2013 they are on schedule and they are included in the guidance that James has provided for the segment.
And we'll now take a question from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> You talked about steady demand or inquiry levels in the tank car markets.
But I'm curious with price differentials and crude narrowing sequentially pretty much every month since February has there been any noticeable impact in either the level of inquiries or orders from crude industry customers in your tank car business on a month-to-month basis? You got to keep in mind -- this is Tim.
Steve will answer the balance.
But a lot of what we're quoting right now -- we're quoting deliveries that are way out into the future with the backlogs like we have.
Yes Bascome.
I think you have to look at the market in its totality.
We have a backlog that goes well into 2015 to serve in large parts of the crude oil market.
We continue to receive inquiries in that business.
Perhaps the sense of urgency to rush in to get an order to get a production spot 2 years out has slowed.
But we clearly see continued demand by producers and refiners and we believe that demand is going to continue to be consistent to meet the increase in oil production in both mid-continent and in Canada.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess you implied there a little bit that perhaps demand within tank cars is broadening to some of the more traditional core customers you see in that space? Or is that what you're saying there? Well I think demand for tank cars has been very steady.
We've had inquiries obviously for crude oil and a number of the chemicals that are required to support the drilling and exploration.
And we still think we're at the beginning of seeing demand for railcars to support refined products.
And the advent of that I think is still yet to come.
And again we also see in the Canadian market the early stages of unit train infrastructure developments which will help to expand rail's role and in taking away Canadian crude oil from those fields too.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
One more on the regulatory front.
I mean there's been a lot of chatter potential changes to tank car specifications that could require a retrofit.
And you guys being the largest producer and one of the largest owners of tank cars are probably in a pretty unique position to comment on that.
What if anything do you guys see as a potential change that could potentially affect the existing tank car fleet? And is there any way to size up sort of how many cars might be impacted when you think about your business? First off this is Tim.
For my 35 years experience in the rail industry that we have or more than that really 36 37 there's ways that regulation changes that occur on a routine basis when you get information that has been fed back from usage of railcars and so it's common that they will come in with new types of retrofit programs for various cars.
And we've participated in these for decades.
And normally when they make these regulations they get with the industry as they're doing now and they get feedback on how long it would take to make the modifications.
And then you incorporate these modifications into what the industry can absorb and it becomes more of a program-type repair and it extends over a period of time.
So we're not really anticipating right now that there would be a crisis of some sort.
But at the same time in our risk management planning aspects we do some what ifs and we ask ourselves if this was to happen then how would we cope and manage with that.
And so we've been looking at this for a couple of years.
Steve you want to comment a little more? I think your comments are correct Tim.
But I mean this is a natural part of our industry and something that's been a part of this industry for quite some time.
With respect to the recent incidence and questions about certain railcar types we think there's way too many variables remain unknown regarding this derailment to comment on any potential implications to the railcar industry regarding design specification standards or retrofit programs.
Again this is something our industry has dealt with historically.
And if those things come about again and we'll deal with them appropriately then.
And we'll now go to Alexander Hatfield from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick on the year-end guidance or the balance of the year guidance and getting away from quarterly guidance.
You say that you have less confidence in giving quarterly guidance but you appear very confident in the back half of the year.
Is this just simply a function of what -- or what type of cars and when they're going to be delivered and who they're being delivered to and how that will impact eliminations quarter-to-quarter? Yes Art this is James.
I think you've hit on it.
I think when you look at the level of production we have now especially in the rail business but even across the company the precise timing as I said of when a car gets delivered month-to-month even week-to-week however it's [ph] spread over a quarter and similarly which of those cars go into the lease fleet and how that may affect profit eliminations makes a few pennies or nickels here and there hard to precisely define right now whether it's a September or October event.
But we do have a good sense of what the back half of the year looks like in total.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're not concerned about fourth quarter cars or a significant number slipping in.
That's really what the range of the guidance is for.
Yes you always have the timing.
But really the range is just to encompass 2 quarters at a time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then -- did you give guidance -- I missed it if you did -- what the total revenue eliminations would be for the back half of the year or for the full year? We did.
For the full year we have revenue elimination between $775 million and $825 million of revenues and $130 million or $150 million of profit due to the lease fleet additions.
And as a reminder we'll file the statement and an 8-K later today to give you all those guidance specifics but that was what we provided earlier.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on the RIV transaction that occurs today obviously there is an impact that's in your guidance.
How is that going to show up? Would it have an impact in the income statement for Q3? Well the impacts on the income statement as we mentioned those results are fully within our leasing business already.
Those are cars we have in our lease fleet prior to the transaction.
So the impact is the noncontrolling interest number at the bottom of the income statement moving up some.
It was about $4 million or so in the second quarter.
We're anticipating about $12 million to $16 million for the full year.
So you will see that number move up as we go through the year as more cars are in that fleet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then moving onto the lease fleet real quick making adjustments for -- adjustments to revenue related to the sales out of the fleet year-over-year it looks like revenue was up about 14% year-over-year.
And if my numbers are right and please correct me if I'm wrong it looks like the fleet grew about 4% year-over-year which would imply maybe somewhere pricing was up 9% 10% year-over-year.
Am I thinking about that right from a perspective as a -- just the core leasing business? This is Steve.
I think you are thinking about it right.
Two components to the increases there.
One is the increase in the lease fleet with year-over-year was about 5%.
And then we're also seeing an increase in lease rates to support that additional revenue as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then knowing -- and I appreciate your comments on the DOT-111 car regulatory speculation.
But do you remember a time in history where there were regulations that had a significant impact on a company both from a productivity standpoint or from a profit standpoint? Is there a period that you recall that that was the case other than just kind of normal having to deal with new regulations? Are you talking about regulations that may have changed on railcars? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
This is Tim.
I don't recall in my time with the company that we had something that we were disclosing that was material in that area because these programs usually go on for a number of years and you have time to be able to work it out.
And then you got your individual contracts with -- between the leasing company the lessor and the leasing company.
And so it just depends on whose responsibility it is.
So it's kind of a complex situation but it's part of car ownership and being in the leasing business to respond to these situations.
We'll now go to the side of Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital markets.
Research Division</strong> Continued nice job on this very unusual railcar cycle.
I had a couple of questions.
So in terms of the length of leases years ago you used to have an average lease term of I think at one time even 7 years and certainly a lot of 5.5 years to 6 years.
But it continues to be stuck around 3.5 years.
Can you talk about why that hasn't extended out more to at least 4.5 to 5 years? What's the dynamic of that staying in the mid-3.5-year range? And this is James.
And Tom I think really it's -- a lot of this is math.
When you have 74 000 cars in your lease fleet as we do now you're adding to that every quarter with longer leases and you're renewing.
But you have the majority of those leases getting one quarter less on their term obviously.
So to your point you've stated about the same number for several quarters which tells you that you've been able to extend leases enough to offset that.
So we're seeing very positive trends in lease terms and pricing and long-term leases are certainly where we're focused right now but math tells that that's going to be relatively steady just given the inertia of the existing fleet.
Research Division</strong> One of the earlier question was about lease rates.
I think where there has been weakness has been what I call more the spot rental market 3 months to certainly less than a year.
But can you comment on 2 things? On the longer-term leases are lease rates beginning to look like they may plateau in the next quarter or 2? And then between getting a car into an actual lease when it may be rented what have you seen there on those shorter-term situations? Well Tom I think you're right.
This is Steve.
There's a short-term market and there's a long-term market and those probably behave a little differently.
We're principally focused on the long term where we are seeing solid lease terms and pricing remained firm.
And as cars continue to increase in price we would expect lease rates to potentially move up along with that.
In the short term you may see some lease rates converge but we really don't participate very actively in that end of the market and it would be difficult for me to say much more about that.
There is a strong sublease market.
I think you had a number of your ethanol producers who have railcars who were subleasing into the crude oil market and basically bridging oil producers and refiners until they receive delivery of their new cars which we may be very well delivering to them now.
So the short term filled a bridge [ph] responsibility or opportunity for refiners and producers and that bridge may no longer be needed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then 5 000 orders that you took in the quarter how evenly spread out was that? In other words was that most of that in April? Or was it still a healthy order market during the month of June? Yes I would say it was very consistent throughout the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question would be -- I don't think you've ever said this but the market has assumed that tank cars are by far and away the most profitable.
What's the second most profitable railcar that you can make and how big of a margin gap hypothetically -- even if you don't want to give the margins but just maybe percentage points between the tank car and the second most profitable car type? Yes well I'm not sure I ever said what the most profitable car type was or the second most profitable car type and that's really a discussion that's probably best suited -- not suited for this call.
But look our car prices are pretty simple.
It's about supply and demand.
And when demand exceeds supply we get traction on our pricing we get traction on lease rates.
When supply exceeds demand the opposite happens so -- and that doesn't change whatever markets you're addressing.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And it made me think of one other thing.
So given that there's been so many nontraditional buyers of railcars this cycle does it ever come up in discussions -- do they think about supply and demand in the entire universe of railcars whether it be some of the petroleum companies refiners et cetera? Or do they just think about their needs and sort of are blind to supply and demand in the marketplace at large? I really think -- this is Tim.
I think you going to have to ask them this question because when they come to us they don't really say "Let me tell you what's driving my purchase as to how I view this." They usually will have -- the thing we do know is people don't normally purchase railcars unless they have some type of need that's based on there.
It's not something that they just wake up someday and say "I need some -- I'd like to have some railcars." It's based on a specific need that they have to transport a product over a period of time and then they run economics and it's normally approved by boards and it's a major capital expenditure.
So by the time it gets to us it's been germinating within a company for usually an extended period of time.
And we will now take questions from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Within your Rail Group is there any way to quantify how much of a headwind some of the production line changeover was in the quarter? Or talk to it at least? Yes I can let Steve talk the color.
We really don't define how much of a headwind it was.
We talked about there was going to be some of that in the second quarter and you can see from the results that the operating efficiency and leverage as a team was able to accomplish in the quarter offset that.
I mean I guess was it meaningful? I mean you -- really nice margins.
Were they down a little bit from what you guys did in the first quarter.
Should we assume that -- and your guidance implies it I'm just trying to get a feel for magnitude that the changeover was somewhat meaningful and did weigh on your margins? Matt this is Tim.
It was extremely meaningful to me.
I have been around for a long time and to watch the group increase their production and transition their production lines and accomplish the things that they have it was significant.
Now we haven't gone back through and said how much of this was in our estimation and how much of it was not.
We just know that we were able to produce the type of financial results we have.
And we pat a lot of people on the back as a result of it.
So it is extremely meaningful.
Okay.
Okay understood.
And then as I think about the second half of this year in your Rail Group margins and I think the question was kind of asked earlier but are there any incremental production line changeovers that will occur in the second half? And also are you adding production lines at this point to support the increased delivery guidance? Yes Matt.
This is Steve.
We're always making adjustments in our production plans to respond to orders and our customers but looking at the second half of the year we don't have any major line changeovers or startup of new production lines planned at this time.
We're seeing really an increase in production efficiencies and productivity out of our existing lines and facilities.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just my final question.
Saw a nice uptick in terms of orders on the tank barge side a lot of that having to do with supporting feature chemical and also refined product movements.
Where are we from an innings perspective in terms of what incremental orders could look like on the tank barge side given what you've seen thus far? Yes Matt.
This is Bill.
Yes I don't know that I would put it on an innings perspective but as you noted we had really nice orders in the second quarter.
We’ve got great visibility.
As we move out to '14 we've talked about adding some production capacity and converting one of our facilities to the smaller tank barges.
So the market is still active we're still engaged in conversations with customers about their future demand.
But I don't think it would be appropriate for me to try to gauge what inning that is.
We will next go to the line of Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the focus on acquisitions.
I was wondering if you could just comment a little bit more on some of the targeted areas whether it's to complement existing businesses or entry into a new market.
Also any details on the potential deal size you might be comfortable with today and also what level of activity you're seeing in the overall M&amp;A market as well.
Well as far as commenting on deals we really don't comment on deals until a deal is complete.
But we definitely have resources that we're dedicating to go out and visit with customer -- visit with potential companies that we might be interested in acquiring or partnershiping with or something like that.
And we consider a wide variety of external opportunities that we think can enhance our competencies and complement our product offerings and expand our reach in the markets that we're currently in.
We have a fabulous platform within our company of manufacturing businesses.
And the bolt-on factor of other companies that we are able to identify and bring into our portfolio can produce significant benefits for us.
And so this is an ongoing process.
It's very dynamic.
Sometimes we're planting seeds with businesses today that may not germinate for a number of years.
And in some cases we've had seeds planted for a number of years that began to germinate.
So it's a very dynamic program.
We're very much like an entrepreneur.
When we see an opportunity we like to react very quickly.
And I'm optimistic that over the next 6 to 18 months that we will have a pipeline of opportunities that we'll be pursuing and that we will have some things that we will announce -- some successes in that particular area.
We've got a substantial amount of cash reserves that we've worked hard to position ourselves.
The RIV 2013 was a strategic play for us in this area.
We worked for quite a while to be able to build the foundation for some long-term relationships where that we think that's a sustainable platform.
And this allows us to look at our capital go to other areas and just out -- the growth of our leasing business.
Whereas in the past 10 years we've spent a lot of capital growing our leasing business and getting this platform setup.
So we're at a position now that we can get back to some of the basics of what built this company and the diversified industrial manufacturing platform that we have and we're real excited about these opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And maybe to shift back to tank cars.
Are you comfortable with where industry capacity stands today? I know you've announced some additions over the last year.
Some of your competitors have announced increases as well.
Would you say we're probably getting maxed out on the capacity front by the end of this year? Or would you still consider bringing on additional capacity at some point? Well I can't speak for the -- this is Steve Justin.
I can't speak for the other manufacturers and what capacity they have or don't have.
I do know that we are being very clear that we bring on capacity when we believe that demand for a product is sustainable.
Sustainable is more than a couple of quarters.
I think the benefits that we have in our operation flexibility is with the facilities and the competencies that we have in Trinity.
We have the ability to transition production capacity to meet shifts in demand very quickly.
So we think we're in a good position for current demand levels and we continue to monitor that to see if there's adjustments in our production that we want to make to see any changes.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And maybe one last one.
And Steve this is probably for you too.
But could you talk about some of the maintenance requirements you'll have for the railcar lease fleet over the next few years? One of the other sizable leasing companies has commented a lot on the maintenance level they're facing on tank cars the next few years.
So curious if that was something that you'll be dealing with as well.
Yes.
No good question Justin.
And first of all the timing of maintenance and regulatory testing is pretty hard to bake into forecast so it is a bit spotty and lumpy.
But I think generally we can expect a higher level of maintenance particularly on the tank car fleet.
As the age of our fleet continues to increase I will also see cars used in some greater distances increased mileage.
And certainly we'll -- we expect that over time we'll have increased regulatory compliance requirements as well.
So generally the trend in railcar maintenance is up.
We will now take questions from Sal Vitale from Stern Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
If I could just further explore what was said about tank cars -- tank car demand going forward.
So it seems like you're really positive on the long-term fundamentals of demand for tank cars.
But you also said that the orders eased in the second quarter and there's not the same urgency in demand but that you're still seeing inquiries.
Based on that is it fair to say that say for the next couple of quarters that we'll probably see a step down in tank car orders placed relative to say the first half? Sal this is Steve.
I don't know that I could do that type of prognosticating on quarter-to-quarter orders for any type of railcars.
Again we're looking at things at a longer-term basis and we're encouraged by the long-term trend in demand for tank cars as well as what we've seen in the broadening demand for freight cars.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm sorry if this was discussed earlier but the increase in the margin guidance for the full year for the Rail Group what's the driver there? And this is James.
Sal I think as you look at our ability to step up the production level and the pricing we have in those cars is a very positive thing for us as we look at the back half of the year as well as Steve and Tim and I have all mentioned the operating efficiencies and leverage we've had as we continue to build our production up to these levels has been very positive.
And we expect that trend to continue in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's a combination of better pricing and efficiencies as well.
Is it more one than the other? I don't think we'd break it down like that.
But both are certainly contributors to the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just shift gears to the energy side.
You said that there's a very strong demand for energy containers.
Are you seeing -- well you said the shipments of energy containers increased significantly in 2Q.
Are you seeing a lot of orders for those types of containers? Have you seen that increase sequentially? Yes Sal.
This is Bill.
Yes the storage container business has been particularly robust right now a lot of it associated with midstream processing plants some of the products particularly in the NGL side so it looks pretty good.
And we're positioned well to raise the tanks.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing -- on the pricing side without providing any specifics are you seeing pretty strong increases in pricing for those products? Yes I would classify the market -- again we go back to kind of supply and demand situation and there's a little leverage out there right now for good pricing.
And we'll now go to the side of Michael Baudendistel from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you already had provided some comments on the accrued differentials in the Rail Group.
I'm just wondering is the volatility in the various oil prices impact any of your other businesses whether it's the tank barges or the tank containers? Yes Michael this is Bill.
Again and I think a very similar comment that Steve made that those are probably questions better directed to the transporters and the refiners of the products.
From our position there's still activity but the activity can be as simple as their need to have flexibility in shipping points and destinations.
So I think from the spread situation it's probably a better question for the end-users.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then wanted to ask for clarification on the comments on the barge industry.
When you talked about the unfavorable mix in barge is that just a shift from the liquid -- or a shift away from the -- towards the covered -- was in the covered hoppers or was it more from -- between the covered hoppers and the tank segments? Yes you're from the barge business right Michael? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes on the barge side you're really dealing what kind of 2 dynamics right now.
On the dry cargo side we have shipments of coal that are down considerably and then also shipments of grain that are down considerably.
We're all hopeful that the harvest is a very good harvest this year and that could bring some upside to the industry.
But right now those are 2 headwinds for the industry.
On the opposite side of the table the tank business again benefiting from many of the same situations that our tank car business is.
And so it's to the more robust side right now.
Okay.
So the comment that you provided on softer pricing in barge that was just related to the hopper barges and not the tank barges? That's right.
Softness was related to the hopper barges.
And we'll now go to the side of Bill Baldwin with Baldwin Anthony.
Inc.</strong> Steve I want to talk about the petrochemical companies expanding capacity and this type of thing.
Are you seeing any reflection of that in terms of orders for some of your railcars coming from that sector of the economy? Yes Bill.
Yes thank you for the question.
Again when we talk about the downstream implications of the energy renaissance I think that's really the investments that we're seeing made by the petrochemical companies today both in the Gulf Coast as well as up in the Appalachian area and those are going to yield demand requirements for railcars to support refined product production.
So I think we're in the early stages of that and again that's part of our belief in the long-term demand for tank cars to remain steady through the energy renaissance.
Inc.</strong> So when you use the word refined products that includes petrochemical and chemical segment of the economy.
Yes it does.
Thank you for the clarification.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And on a specific question here I guess directed to Bill you talk about making acquisitions that kind of supplement your existing product lines.
Would this entrance into the shoring business be one that would lend itself to further acquisitions and buildup presence in that marketplace over time? Yes Bill.
Great question.
We're excited about the shoring business.
So we got into it in a relatively small way.
But we like what we see.
It matches Trinity's competencies very very well.
And there seems to be a growing need for the product as there's lots of underground construction which directly links to our comments about infrastructure rebuild and infrastructure expansion.
So the market is well regionalized right now and there could be an opportunity for growth and/or consolidation in that industry.
Inc.</strong> Is that a product line that you could utilize your other manufacturing facilities for to broaden out beyond the existing region that it currently operates in? Yes Bill as we talk about -- one of Trinity's strengths is manufacturing flexibility.
So it is a product that can be made at many of Trinity's facilities in different parts of the United States.
Inc.</strong> So you can grow that business organically then without really doing additional acquisitions.
You could go either approach.
This does conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today's program.
I'd like to turn the program back over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard time today through midnight on August 8 2013.
The access number is (402) 220-0116.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at anytime.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference will contain forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions about future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change of any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ms.
Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer at Trinity Industries.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Justin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are: Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge groups; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide a financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with our strong financial results for the third quarter.
We achieved a number of key financial milestones.
During the quarter our operating profit net income and EPS all reached new quarterly highs.
One of Trinity's key differentiating strengths is the ability of our businesses to create value by leveraging their combined expertise competencies and manufacturing capacity to produce products with strong demand.
Our businesses that provide products to the oil gas and chemical industries continue to leverage this strength during the third quarter delivering impressive results.
We have a great deal of positive momentum occurring within our company and we are strongly positioned to grow the industries we serve.
Our Rail Group continued to improve its performance during the third quarter reporting a record level of quarterly operating profit and margin.
I'm impressed with our Rail Group's ability to continue to generate strong financial results while converting manufacturing space making line changeovers and increasing production levels.
Our Railcar Leasing business also delivered another quarter of solid results.
We expect to continue expanding our Railcar Leasing and Management Services platform in the near term.
I'm pleased with the way our Inland Barge Group improved its profitability on a lower revenue run rate.
Our barge business successfully converted manufacturing capacity of dry cargo barges to tank barges.
Our Construction Products Group improved its year-over-year financial performance a result of repositioning that has occurred within this segment.
Our shoring products business that we acquired last year is performing well.
The third quarter financial performance of our Energy Equipment Group continued to show considerable improvement year-over-year.
I'm very pleased that our Structural Wind Towers business increased its backlog during the quarter extending production visibility through 2015.
We continue to invest resources to enhance the positioning of our Energy Equipment Group.
During the past 2 years the energy renaissance in the U.S.
and Canada has created strong demand for our energy storage and transportation products.
We view this demand as the first phase of a multi-phase period of demand for these products.
During the first phase customers order rail cars and barges to transport crude oil as well as storage tanks to hold liquefied natural gas products.
During the next phase we anticipate there will be a demand for storage and transportation of products supporting the downstream production of chemicals and petrochemicals.
We expect that the increased output from these industries will generate additional demand for our energy containers barges and railcars over the longer term.
We also see new demand servicing in the long term from the ongoing energy transformation that is occurring in Mexico as well.
Trinity is in a very strong position to serve customers in its storage and transportation products in the oil gas and chemicals industry.
We continue to devote resources to identify acquisition candidates that have products services technology and competencies that could potentially enrich and expand our industrial manufacturing platforms in North America.
Trinity's internal structure enables us to quickly link businesses together to aggressively and efficiently pursue products with strong demand.
We categorize our businesses as primary support or niche businesses.
As we look to expand our portfolio we consider where an opportunity might fit within this structure.
Our primary and support businesses are operationally linked generating ongoing enrichment value for each other through internal supply chains.
Our internal structure allows our businesses to devote a concentration of focus on certain key areas of our manufacturing processes.
We are optimistic about the opportunities we have to build upon our platform of businesses.
During the third quarter we established some new financial records and we expect to build on our momentum.
Trinity's financial health has never been better.
The backlog visibility in our major businesses should position them to continue to generate additional operating efficiencies.
Sustainable progress drives our business activities.
Our businesses are constantly striving to reach new levels of achievement.
They are successfully implementing a variety of initiatives designed to improve their financial performance competitive positions and top line growth.
Our people make a major difference in the performance of our company.
We have a very strong team.
I'm especially proud of the accomplishments of the industrial athletes who work in our manufacturing facilities.
They have performed exceptionally well as we have flexed our production lines in order to pursue orders for products in the oil gas and chemical industries.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Our Energy Equipment Group's revenue for the third quarter increased approximately 25% year-over-year primarily due to increased shipments of energy containers and other related products.
The group reported an operating profit of $15 million and a margin of 8.8%.
These results continue to reflect significant improvement in year-over-year performance.
During the quarter we received orders for wind towers with a value of $442 million.
Our manufacturing flexibility positioned our wind tower business to respond to the improved market demand resulting from the extension of production tax credit.
The company elected to remove from the wind tower backlog a $413 million order that is subject to litigation.
The litigation is ongoing making any public commentary difficult.
At the end of the quarter our wind tower backlog stood at $610 million and now extends through 2015.
The Construction Products Group generated an operating profit of $18.6 million during the third quarter a 62% increase compared to the same quarter 1 year ago.
The continued improvement in revenue and profit performance is a direct result of our efforts to reposition the portfolio so it is aligned with the products that have more consistent demand drivers.
The highway products market continues to be constrained by tight state budgets.
We expect demand for highway products to remain relatively slow until there is improvement in funding at both the state and federal level.
The government shutdown had no impact on our business.
Our Inland Barge Group experienced a year-over-year decline in both revenue and profit.
However as a result of the manufacturing leverage in the production of tank barges the segment produced stronger operating margin of 17.4% during the quarter.
The recent investments we have made in our barge facilities have increased our ability to flex our production lines in response to changing demand patterns.
I am pleased with the financial returns we are seeing from these investments.
Demand for hopper barges continues to be weak.
The timing of recovery in demand is difficult to predict.
We are watching these markets closely and are well positioned for any pickup in activity.
Order patterns in the barge market tend to be lumpy as customers place orders in accordance with their annual capital expenditure plans.
Infrastructure supporting the energy renaissance continues to be built out across North America.
The downstream investments for chemical and petrochemical expansions are coming closer in sight.
While the timing of new orders is uncertain the strength of our backlog and the flexibility of our manufacturing platform gives us a great deal of confidence in our business.
The barge backlog stands at $476 million after receiving orders of $49 million in the third quarter.
Overall I am pleased with our performance.
Our business groups will continue to look for opportunities to grow.
At this time I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
I'm very pleased with the accomplishments of our TrinityRail team during the third quarter.
Our Rail Group experienced another quarter of record operating profit driven by an 11% increase in railcar shipments compared to the prior quarter at our highest ever operating margin.
Our Leasing Group continues to generate strong returns and contributes steady cash flows to the company driven by strong lease renewals.
I am also pleased with the way the North American industrial markets are developing and the resulting long-term opportunities for TrinityRail.
Our Leasing Group experienced another solid quarter with profit from operations increasing by approximately 14% year-over-year driven by lease fleet additions and increases in lease rates for railcars serving the oil gas and chemicals industries.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the third quarter was 98.5% down slightly from both the prior year and previous quarter but still very high.
During the third quarter we sold a small group of railcars which generated $1.6 million of operating profit -- of profit.
As mentioned on prior conference calls we had a lower level of railcar sales during the quarter as compared to last year due to our focus on placing railcars into our leasing joint venture RIV 2013.
The secondary market for leased railcars remains active and institutional investors continue to see stable returns generated by leased railcars.
We are closely monitoring these market developments for additional opportunities to strategically develop our lease portfolio and to provide railcar leasing and management services for institutional investors.
During the third quarter we added approximately 1 660 new railcars to our lease fleet portfolio.
Our total lease portfolio including partially owned subsidiaries now stands at approximately 75 460 railcars an increase of 6% year-over-year.
At the end of the quarter approximately 16% of the units in our railcar order backlog with a total value of $848 million were slated for customers of our leasing business.
During the third quarter the Rail Group delivered 6 225 railcars and generated our highest ever quarterly operating profit for the third consecutive quarter.
We are beginning to see the benefits of stronger pricing levels embedded in our backlog.
In spite of line changeovers and capacity additions during the quarter we realized additional operating efficiencies due to a favorable product mix and benefits derived from a more seasoned workforce.
For the full year 2013 we expect to deliver between 24 000 and 24 500 railcars.
This implies railcar shipments of between 7 000 and 7 500 during the fourth quarter.
The sizable projected production increase from third quarter to fourth quarter is in large part due to customers' requirements for railcar deliveries prior to year end to qualify for bonus depreciation.
We anticipate unit deliveries in the first quarter of 2014 to be similar to the third quarter pace with a higher average sales price per car.
North American railcar orders in the third quarter were solid and continued to reflect improving demand for a broader mix of freight cars.
The production backlog for the industry remained essentially flat at a very healthy 70 800 -- 73 800 railcars.
I'm very pleased with the orders TrinityRail received during the quarter.
As we had anticipated orders received in the third quarter and the level of fourth quarter market inquiries reflected demand returning for small cube covered hoppers to serve both the frac sand and construction markets.
We also continued to see demand for auto racks as a result of increasing North American automobile production and a change in distribution patterns as new assembly plants come online in Mexico.
We're also receiving an increasing level of inquiries for a variety of freight cars driven by customers with discrete new business opportunities or fleet replacement needs.
During the third quarter we received orders for 5 610 new railcars including tank cars covered hoppers and auto racks from railroads third-party lessors and industrial shippers.
As a result of the orders we received our order backlog stands at a firm noncancelable 40 050 railcars with a value of approximately $5.1 billion.
The visibility provided by our extended order backlog which enables us to plan production into 2015 continued to differentiate this railcar market cycle from others in the past.
We continue to believe the market is not expected to be purchasing tank cars as orders in our backlog appear to be aligned with the completion of additional crude oil loading capacity.
While the rate of increase in railcar loadings for mid-continent crude oil may be easing inquiries for tank cars still remain significant when compared to the historical average.
Our analysis shows that tank car demand for crude oil tracks the pace of infrastructure investments to expand rail loading capacity in the various oil production regions.
We believe we are in the early stages of demand for railcars to serve crude oil produced in Canada.
Unit train service and infrastructure capacity in Canada will be an important factor in the long-term growth for the movement of crude oil by railroads.
Rail infrastructure and unit train loading facilities within Canada are just now being developed.
Our market analysis and conversations with customers lead us to believe there will be long-term demand for tank cars to support the movement of crude oil.
As the energy markets mature and investments are completed downstream markets will begin to expand and additional opportunities for rail transportation will develop throughout the petrochemical and chemical supply chains.
Overall we continue to see evidence supporting a long-term fundamental shift in the North American industrial base driven by the energy renaissance.
TrinityRail is well positioned to provide railcars and leasing services for the resulting demand.
We understand that the markets we serve constantly evolve and change.
Our highly flexible railcar manufacturing and strong leasing platforms uniquely position TrinityRail to respond to various market changes quickly and effectively.
While we continue to see strong demand stemming from the oil gas and chemicals markets I am confident that as aggregate demand improves or if the market shifts our team will again be ready and able to quickly adjust to our production to serve our customers.
We still have ample railcar production capacity to respond to a pickup in the broader economy and any acceleration in the replacement cycle within the railcar industry.
During our last conference call we received questions about potential regulatory changes pertaining to DOT-111 tank cars that transport flammable liquids.
There are approximately 11 500 DOT-111 tank cars and flammable service in our wholly owned and partially owned lease fleets.
On September 6 the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PHMSA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking that asked interested parties to comment on recommendations proposed by the National Transportation Safety Board regarding regulatory requirements for the DOT-111 tank cars.
These comments are to be submitted by November 11.
We're closely monitoring the regulatory process and we are preparing to respond accordingly.
It is still too early to discuss the possible regulatory changes to DOT-111 tank cars and flammable service that may result or when a ruling may be made.
As we gain further clarity we will provide an update on how we plan to address any changes.
The industry has been through numerous regulatory changes in the past and it is fundamental to the railcar leasing and manufacturing business to respond effectively when new regulations are issued.
I'll now turn it over to James for his comments.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we reported strong third quarter results with earnings per share of $1.26 and $1.1 billion in revenues.
Our net income grew by more than 57% over last year resulting in the most profitable quarter in Trinity's history.
All of our business groups performed well.
During the third quarter we purchased 540 000 shares of our common stock in the open market for a total cost of $24 million.
This brings total purchases of our common stock during the last 2 quarters to 1.8 million shares.
Our current share repurchase program has $126 million of remaining authorization through the end of 2014.
Additionally as previously announced in September we increased our dividend by 15% effective with the October payment made today.
Together with the $0.02 per share increase declared in May the company has increased its quarterly dividend by 36% in 2013.
These actions reflect an ongoing commitment to the return of capital to our shareholders as a part of our overall capital allocation strategy.
I will now turn to our current outlook for the remainder of 2013.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we expect earnings per share of between $1.24 and $1.34.
As a result of this fourth quarter guidance and our performance during the third quarter our new expectation for earnings per share for the full year is between $4.55 and $4.65 including the effect of discontinued operations.
In the Rail Group our 2013 revenue guidance is now between $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion based on our delivery guidance of between 24 000 and 24 500 railcars.
We expect a full year operating margin of between 16.75% and 17.25% for the Rail Group.
This group continues to post solid margins and maintains an order backlog of $5.1 billion of railcars for future deliveries.
In the Inland Barge Group we now expect full year revenues of between $560 million and $575 million in 2013.
Our barge business continues to deliver from a strong backlog of tank barges and its manufacturing conversions have gone well leading to increased operating margin guidance of between 16% and 16.5% for the year.
In the Energy Equipment Group we are increasing our 2013 revenue guidance to between $645 million and $660 million.
We expect the range of operating margin for the year to be between 8.75% and 9.25%.
We are pleased to announce a backlog for wind towers of $610 million as of September 30 as a result of order activity during the third quarter.
This backlog represents orders that carry us through 2015 at our facilities.
In the Construction Products Group we expect full year revenues of between $525 million and $540 million in 2013 with an operating margin of between 9.75% and 10.25%.
As a reminder seasonality is a factor in this business segment's results and the second and third quarter typically represent the high points of the year for the construction season.
In the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group we have tightened our 2013 revenue and operating profit guidance to between $580 million and $595 million and between $265 million and $275 million respectively due to higher rates on our lease renewals for railcars.
As a reminder the operating results for our railcar leasing joint ventures TRIP and RIV 2013 are fully consolidated within the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group.
The earnings related to the equity not held by Trinity are deducted from Trinity's net income through the noncontrolling interest line at the bottom of the income statement.
We now expect between $15 million and $17 million of earnings to be deducted in 2013 due to increased forecasted income from these portfolios.
As a result of TRIP and RIV 2013's partnership tax status it is important to note that taxes are not applied to the amount of noncontrolling earnings deducted.
We are now expecting between $750 million and $775 million of revenue eliminations and between $130 million and $140 million of operating profit eliminations due to the addition of new railcars to the lease fleet.
We will also have between $220 million and $240 million of revenue eliminations for other intercompany transactions.
During the first 9 months of the year we recorded $13.1 million of profit from railcar sales from the lease fleet.
Our annual guidance does not include any operating profit from railcar sales from the lease fleet during the fourth quarter.
Our Leasing Group will continue to be an active participant in the secondary market and will evaluate opportunities to conduct external sales and fleet acquisitions as they arise.
During 2013 we expect a net investment in new railcars for the lease fleet of approximately $540 million to $555 million.
This guidance includes 100% of the investment in new railcars that have been sold to RIV 2013 as well as the proceeds received from railcar sales from the lease fleet to third parties that have occurred year-to-date.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2013 are now expected to be between $125 million and $145 million.
We expect corporate expenses to range from $68 million to $73 million for the year.
We now expect a tax rate of 34% to 36% for the full year.
Our annual guidance uses a full year weighted average share count of 76.5 million shares for the purpose of calculating fully diluted EPS.
As a reminder we are required to report EPS using the two-class method of accounting the result of which should be the reduction of EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.16 per share for the full year 2013 compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
This is included in our EPS guidance.
Our results during 2013 will be influenced by multiple factors including the amount of operating leverage and efficiencies that our manufacturing businesses can achieve the level of sales and profitability of railcars the amount of profit eliminations due to railcar additions to the Leasing Group and the impact of weather conditions on our operations and delivery schedules.
Our full year guidance reflects earnings per share growth of more than 40% as compared to 2012 and would result in a record annual earnings for Trinity.
We remain very pleased with the focused dedication of all of our employees who helped deliver this impressive growth and high-quality earnings.
We continue to seek investment opportunities both organically and externally that will add value to our diversified industrial portfolio.
Our total liquidity at the end of the third quarter was $1.2 billion positioning us to consider a wide range of acquisition opportunities.
As we consider various opportunities we are focused on those that enhance our competencies complement our product offerings and expand our reach in the markets that we are pursuing.
We are actively evaluating multiple acquisition opportunities and will provide updates as appropriate when transactions are completed.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first take our question -- first question from Sal Vitale from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> The first question I have is looking at the ASP can you give me a little color on what drove the decline? I see a -- I don't have it in front of me right now but I think a few percentage points of decline in the ASP.
Was that just product mix? I would have -- it's actually 3%.
Was that just a lower proportion of tank cars in the sales mix? Steve do you want to take that? Or James? Yes Sal the -- it's really a matter of mix and you have such a wide variety of cars that we're producing with a wide variance in sales prices.
And that mix continues to shift each quarter and we continue to see a very favorable shift in our mix to higher-value cars with strong margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess in the -- I guess the guidance you gave for 1Q in terms of the deliveries guidance you said that would be roughly flat with 4Q but that the ASP will be slightly higher.
And that's driven by -- I mean is that -- any particular type of car that is driving that ASP higher in 1Q? Sal this is James.
Again the ASP is really mix and the fact that as we go through our backlog we're working with cars with more recent pricing.
And to clarify one thing Steve's guidance for the first quarter deliveries is more in line with the third quarter not the fourth quarter which has a bit of a move up and then we move back down to a run rate that we've been on in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I have is on the energy side specifically on the tank containers.
Can you give a little bit of a sense for what the pricing and volume growth has been there? Bill? Yes Sal.
From a pricing perspective I would say that the market is still competitive although it is good pricing in the industry but there is more demand coming on pace.
We see nice double-digit growth rates within the container side particularly the larger storage container side those associated with NGL storage and just basic propane as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it safe to assume that the profitability or the margin is improving in that business as well? I'd say from a margin perspective we really got a lot of effort on the cost side.
We're working on our cost side pretty strong so I don't look for that from a sales price perspective but I look for us to continue to improve our production efficiencies on our plants when -- where we got nice backlogs and good teams working on these products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the acquisition front so just staying on that line of business do you see a lot of opportunities there? Is that a fairly fragmented market? And I'm saying manufacturers of tank containers.
Yes I think it is a fairly fragmented market.
As I said in my speech we're always looking for opportunities to grow.
So we're out there looking around for businesses that make sense for Trinity where our core competencies and our ability to enrich those businesses add value.
Research Division</strong> Any interest in getting on the leasing side of that business if you're leasing out tank containers? We're not currently leasing out tank containers.
And we'll take our next question from Justin Long from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> With RIV and the potential for similar transactions going forward I was wondering if this will translate into more deliveries to the wholly owned lease fleet.
As you put some of this additional capital to work should we expect the percentage of your total deliveries allocated to the lease fleet to change going forward? Or do you think it will be more in line with what we've seen historically? Yes and this is James.
Right now it's a little less than 20% of our total backlog which historically that's moved around a little bit plus or minus that number.
It's been in that general range.
And again the cars that go to leasing are going to be the demand from the customers on whether they're going to lease or buy a car.
So transactions like TRIP and RIV give us the opportunity to have capital associated from external parties with capital that we put into those type of opportunities.
But the demand is going to come from the customer side.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one question I had was on the customer mix.
Could you talk about that a little bit more and what you're seeing in the last few months in terms of maybe what you're both delivering any inquiry levels for tank and non-tank railcars? I'm just curious what the balance looks like between leasing companies and shippers and how that's been fluctuating.
Yes this is Steve Justin.
Yes we're really seeing a good balance of inquiries.
We're seeing railroads who are looking to make some investments for fleet replacement.
We're seeing chemical companies and oil and production companies obviously increasing their tank car needs.
Automotive companies.
We're also seeing lessors looking to strategically invest in their fleets as well.
So right now we're really experiencing a broad response from customers third-party lessors railroads and the industrial shippers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And it sounds like there was a sizable plastic pellet order that was placed in October with another OEM.
I was curious if I could get your updated thoughts on the likelihood we'll see more orders like this materialize in the near term.
Or do you think this is still a cycle that's coming but it's 1 year or 2 years away? Well I -- this is -- again it's Steve again Justin.
Specific to the resins and plastic pellets all that's going to be very much in conjunction with the infrastructure and the plants that are being constructed and expanded.
And I think a number of those announcements have said that production capacity comes on stream in 2015 and '16.
I still think that will largely be the case.
So I would expect that for plastic pellet cars we'll start to see increased inquiries and orders for those cars as we get closer to the completion of production.
In general I think Tim and I both commented that downstream opportunities beyond the oil and gas sectors and the petrochemical and chemical sectors is going to drive railcar demand.
And again significant investments being made in the Gulf Coast and in the Marcellus region will yield additional chemical and petrochemical traffic as well that we still haven't seen the brunt of.
So we're really excited long term about the market developments and we're certainly enjoying the first stages Tim referred to with the oil producers and refineries.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one.
Maybe this one is for you too Steve.
On the railcar leasing business could just talk about the trends you've seen recently in lease rates on both the tank and the freight car side the past few months? Yes.
That's -- really hard to answer that question because lease rates all behave in discrete manners with different markets and different car types.
I think generally we continue to see strong lease rates in the tank car sector.
And where there's more sluggish demand and excess capacity being the freight car sector we see less strength in renewal rates and in railcar pricing.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Barger from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the need for more railcar loading facilities or infrastructure needed for chemical or petrochem plants.
Are customers talking to you about specific parts of that chain that are underserved? Or do you see market opportunities to get involved with the infrastructure build-out beyond storage that may go to your specific strengths? Well this is Steve Steve.
Again we see more developments in those markets.
As infrastructure is developed and plants come on stream I think the exciting thing for our company is while those developments are happening there's many other products that Trinity manufactures that also have opportunities in those markets as well.
And so what we've learned about these markets is really shared amongst the different business groups here and we try to leverage one another's knowledge and customer relationships to look for broader opportunities for the company.
Yes.
And this is Tim Steve.
As well as when the petrochemical companies begin their build-out they have primary locations and secondary locations and they ship a lot of products in between themselves and store a lot of products.
So there's a lot of intercompany movement of products and even between the various companies selling a raw material to another company that uses that in the processing of their products.
So we see kind of a spiraling effect here that the demand builds over a longer period of time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So definitely opportunities to get more involved in that entire supply chain? Absolutely.
And these are industrial products that serve that industry and that's just right down our alley.
And so we're looking at a wide variety of products that we could bolt on our existing platform that enhance that and utilize that manufacturing flexibility that we have and get multipurpose manufacturing and continue to take that to another level.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Steve I know production mix will change as you take non-tank orders.
But in general are -- the tank cars that you'll produce in 2014 do they have better unit economics than the cars you delivered in 2013? I don't think we're really in a position Steve today to talk about 2014 in any great detail.
We're certainly pleased with our backlog and we're seeing here in the third quarter and fourth quarter the impact of strong pricing in our backlog.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well that may make my next question tough.
But for the wind tower economics based on pricing and delivery schedule you see is that high single or low double-digit EBIT margin business similar to what you used to run when that was a more robust market? Bill? Yes Steve.
So again I think consistent with Steve's answer we're not going to get into details of the margins.
But it was a nice order and I think we have an opportunity to get some really fair returns on the order as we go through our production cycle in 2014 and 2015.
So we're pleased with the economics on the order.
And we'll take our next question from Art Hatfield from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
You guys have done a tremendous job of extracting operating margin in your rail manufacturing group.
Are there any other levers that you can pull going forward to kind of continue to ratchet that up? Or are you kind of at the mercy of mix and what the market is going to give you on price of the cars that are flowing through your production facilities? Art this is Tim.
I come from the school that there's really no end to being able to drive sustainable progress throughout our organization and our people are performing remarkably in that area right now.
And I think that we just do much better as we get long backlogs and we're able to do what Bill and Steve had -- have both described work on cost and efficiencies and utilizing the full resources within our company to leverage additional efficiencies.
So we are all looking to expand and improve upon the financial performance that we have demonstrated to date.
And we'll take our next question from Allison Poliniak from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Not to beat up on the rail segment margins or pick on them -- obviously they're very strong -- but it seemed like you've narrowed the range just a touch.
Is there any -- is it mix just given the acceleration in orders? Or is it line changeovers? Or am I just reading into it too much? Allison this is James.
Yes I think it's really just as we get further in the year and then deeper into the quarter we have a better sense of which cars we'll be producing.
So to your point it's mix it's the efficiencies we're achieving and just where we see things right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I know Steve you mentioned that you're not willing to talk about 2014 but obviously a very strong backlog here.
Is there any reason to think that deliveries for next year shouldn't at least meet this year's level if not greater? Yes Allison.
Again we're just not prepared to talk about 2014 deliveries.
And you are correct we have a very strong backlog.
That backlog and some production lines goes into 2015 as well.
And we also have some open production slots in 2014 we're anxious to sell.
So we're not really in position to share details for 2014 as yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just last question on the barge segment.
Obviously very nice margins in that business.
I know historically they've been a bit higher but I think there were some -- maybe some steel inflation or something going on there.
Can you just touch on that margin and sort of how we should think about them going forward sort of past Q4 now that the capacity additions have been made? Yes Allison.
So Q3 I think was a really good quarter for the team.
They're doing a great job on the production side.
We did a nice job on the changeover of one of our facilities into tank barge.
So we're currently operating 3 facilities on the tank barge side.
I think it's really from a cost perspective from an hour's perspective and just how well the team is performing.
But I like the margins.
I like what the team is doing.
And we'll take our next question from Bascome Majors from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was looking at the guidance for your eliminations from the railcar fleet profits and I -- it's come down a little bit over the last couple of quarters which does impact the bottom line.
Just looking into next year I know you're not going to guide explicitly from your earlier comments but you've got a record backlog.
You've told us how much is going into the lease fleet at least out of that backlog.
I mean is there any sense that sort of the mix of revenues between internal and external will change next year or directionally go higher or lower? I'm just curious with what you can see and when those decisions how to finance those cars or mainly your customers if you have insight into next year.
Yes Bascome this is Jim.
Thanks for the question.
Yes we continue to tighten the range we have on the lease fleet additions.
And again as we get deeper into the year and now into the fourth quarter we have a sense of which cars are scheduled in our production cycle for delivery to the lease fleet and which cars are going to be to external sales without elimination.
As we've said the backlog at the end of the third quarter was about $848 million to leasing a little less than 20% of our total.
And as I've said earlier that fluctuates over time with the demand and how people want to finance their cars whether they want to buy or lease those cars.
As Steve mentioned and as the team we've had it's a little early to give that type of precise guidance for 2014 how it may be different.
Historically we've been in this type of range that we're experiencing this year.
But it's a little too early in the production schedule and then with the customers on all of the cars that will be delivered next year to get real precise on the level of eliminations yet.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe I'll try again on the acquisition front.
I mean clearly you have the intent to grow the business outside of rail from your commentary and you certainly have the means today.
And I appreciate you don't want to talk specifically on deals and progress but would this be a bigger part of your story today than it was 6 months ago? So can you give us a little more visibility into your process on the acquisition front sort of how you look at that how you approach that? How rich is the pipeline? What sort of range or deal size that you might be comfortable with and whether or not valuation has been a stumbling block over the last couple of quarters to perhaps announcing more transactions? Okay this is Tim.
We're very actively involved right now looking for external opportunities that will enhance our position to serve the infrastructure and energy markets.
We have a number of opportunities in our pipeline.
As we look at business we typically like to find products that have a high content of steel and involve a repetitive manufacturing process.
And we like businesses too that will interplay with our existing businesses in some ways and we've got a number of niche businesses right now that we could potentially grow.
And then we're also looking for support businesses and then we also look at primary businesses.
And one of the reasons we wanted to categorize these things is as we bring forth acquisitions over the next couple of years we want to be able to articulate precisely what the reason is for the purchase and how we feel they'll fit in our company enrich and participate in the platform of businesses that we have.
So we're not out looking at businesses like a holding company.
We're looking at businesses like a diversified industrial company that has a good keen eye on operations and the benefits and the value that the companies would bring by being connected to our portfolio.
And we've added some resources in this area over the last year.
We've had a lot of discussions with our board and internally.
And so we're heavily focused in it.
Fortunately the company is positioned at an ideal spot right now from a capital standpoint and a backlog standpoint with all systems go.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I appreciate that color.
I'm just -- I mean with expectations here should we be thinking more about a lot more deals in the size of sort of what you've done over the last 12 to 18 months just trying to -- ripping up the quantity there? Or could we potentially go after much larger targets given the means and the favorable trends across your other portfolio? Yes that's a good question.
Over the last decade we've spent the majority of our resources building our leasing fleet and our leasing platform and we didn't do a lot of acquisitions during that time period.
Over the last couple of years as the economy has improved we began to acquire companies that we saw a really nice fit in our portfolio.
As our backlog has improved and the financial metrics of the company have substantially improved we're thinking bigger and larger in terms of acquisitions and we're not really interested in the quantity that we would do.
So we're not trying to do a whole lot of them.
We're more interested in the quality and the value that we can bring.
And so we have -- like I said we brought on resources we've worked with the last couple of acquisitions that we've done we have an external resource that's really perfected our processes in integrating companies successfully we acquired a public company maybe 3 years ago and integrated that company with the assistance of this external consultant and it worked really nice for us.
So we're really in a good position to begin to move forward in this area.
And next we'll go to Matt Brooklier from Longbow Research.
So I had a question regarding the DOT-111 potential regulatory change I guess the question being what's your sense as to the most likely outcomes if we -- there is a potential change here within the tank car market? Steve do you want to take that one? Sure.
Matt yes there's certainly a lot of discussion and activity going on right now leading up to the responses to PHMSA.
And I think I said in my script November 11th that responses were due.
It's November 5 so I wanted to correct that.
There are so many different industry positions.
It's difficult to determine what the regulators are going to do and when they're going to do it.
So we're certainly looking at a number of different alternatives and we will be prepared for whatever outcome evolves out of the -- that regulatory process.
But really hard to opine as to what is highly likely and what is most likely at this point.
Okay.
I mean it -- is -- give us I guess the -- I'll try again a sense at this point if you see potential complete retirement of certain tank cars because they make up a pretty decent portion of the overall population.
Does the population potentially shrink? Or do you think we're more headed towards a course of potential retrofits versus taking out some of the active fleet? Yes Matt.
I mean those are all considerations plus a host of others.
So we're looking at all those.
And again we think we'll be positioned well to respond appropriately to whatever the outcomes are.
Okay.
And then just your positioning in the market.
The fact that you are a lessor but at the same time have an OEM and services component I guess that's giving you advantage in terms of if there were meaningful meaningful change in the market.
Is that how you're looking at things? Well certainly with the different capabilities within TrinityRail and the financial resources of Trinity Industries we think we're well positioned to respond to any outcome.
So yes I think your observations are correct.
And next we'll take our next question from Tom Albrecht from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I don't know who the question would be asked to but on the wind situation can you refresh my memory? At the beginning of this year when Congress cut their budget deal or whatever the wind tax credit was extended into 2014 or '15? Well Yes Tom this is Bill.
The wind tax credit was essentially extended into both '14 and '15.
And it's really done through an IRS ruling that provided kind of a construction moment in time.
So there's a Safe Harbor that really requires that physical work began and they have the ability to pay 5% of the project and get it going.
So while it is a 2014 plan we see it moving well into '15 as construction finishes.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Steve we've all seen what's going on with the railcar orders in that but I usually appreciate your comments on things like the demand for auto cars grain cars.
Could you just shed some light on what kinds of discussions are occurring in the marketplace there? Again I think in my comments I mentioned Tom that we're really seeing a broader array of inquiries for different freight car types.
And any recovery I think in the overall economy would spur some greater demand in those car types.
We certainly always talk about the replacement cycle for our industry and there's a significant number of rail cars that will be replaced over the next 10 or 15 years and we shouldn't lose sight of that.
Certainly different markets behave differently as a result of those demand drivers.
Coal right now is very very soft.
Grains is probably in equilibrium.
And we're seeing tank cars and cars for other dry chemicals as a critical and significant demand.
So I think generally we have a moderate overall railcar market strong tank car demand.
And we expect as the economy improves and replacement cycle continues that we'll see improved demand for general freight cars as well.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Baldwin of Baldwin Anthony Securities.
Inc.</strong> Bill on your wind tower backlog that you have now are you going to be able to produce that basically out of your existing wind tower manufacturing capacity? Manufacturing plants? Yes Bill we can produce the backlog out of the existing facilities today as well as we potentially could increase production through manufacturing flexibility in a couple of other facilities.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Baudendistel from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about your expectations for capital expenditures in the leasing segment? I think there's been maybe some confusion of how much you're going to be spending there in light of the fact that you're bringing on external partners there.
Maybe some range that's reasonable over the next couple of years.
And this is James.
What we've provided for this year is a net investment of $540 million to $555 million.
And what that includes is the cars that we have put into both our wholly owned and partially owned fleet of RIV 2013 as well as the offset from cars we've sold from the fleet.
We've not provided any detail beyond this year other than the backlog we have for leasing right now of about $848 million out of the total $5.1 billion backlog.
So again that will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on the demand cycle and our customers' preference for sale versus lease of railcars.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another question on the Structural Wind Towers.
Historically that's been a pretty good margin business for you.
Is there any reason to think that the margins -- you won't see the same type of the margins you had say in '06 to '08 for that business? Yes Michael this is Bill.
I think the dynamics in the wind tower business have changed significantly since '06 '07.
It's definitely a much more competitive industry from a production perspective.
And so I think the margins that you see back in '06 '07 are probably challenging to achieve.
But as I said earlier we feel really good about the economics in the order that we took on a go-forward basis and we'll work hard to kind of lower our costs and improve those margins as best we can.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final one.
You mentioned about 75 000 cars that your -- leased or managed.
If you have any target of what you'd like that to get to as you build out your lease fleet? It's Steve.
Michael you're -- we -- you're correct a little over 75 000 cars in our wholly owned and partially owned lease fleets.
And we really don't target a specific number in our lease fleet.
James talked about customer demand.
We have our partnerships and other investment opportunities.
And I think Tim and I have both commented we expect to grow our leasing and management services platform over the long term.
So -- and we've obviously had considerable growth to get to the 75 000 cars to date.
And we'll go next to Tom Albrecht for a follow-up question from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a quick follow-up.
So Steve you gave a number of I think of 11 500 approximately in your lease fleet that's DOT-111.
Do you have an estimate on the entire population how many DOT-111 cars are in the overall national fleet? I've seen numbers published by the AAR around 265 000.
I don't have that number in my fingertip.
But I think if you go to the AAR website they do publish that number and the total number of DOT-111 cars in service.
Yes the number we're talking about is the flammable.
The 11 500 that I shared with you today are DOT-111...
The flammable.
Cars in flammable service in are wholly owned and partially owned fleets.
And at this time I would like to turn it back over to our presenters for any follow-up remarks.
Thank you Justin.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on November 7.
The access number is (402) 220-0116.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's fourth quarter results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call may be recorded.
Today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and include statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which would cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Erica.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries fourth quarter 2013 results conference call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are: Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Group.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then moved to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with our accomplishments and a strong financial results for the fourth quarter and for the entire year.
We achieved a number of key financial milestones.
During the quarter and the full year our revenues net income and EPS all reached new record levels.
Our businesses are continuing to create value by leveraging their combined expertise competencies and manufacturing capacity to produce their products.
We are also making great progress in the business development area.
We have a great deal of positive momentum occurring within our company.
Our Rail Group generated strong financial results in the fourth quarter reporting a record level of quarterly revenue and operating profit.
I remain impressed with the group's ability to continue to improve its performance while converting manufacturing space making line changeovers and increasing production levels.
Our Railcar Leasing company delivered another quarter of solid results.
In December we announced a strategic alliance with Element Financial Corporation.
Under the terms of this agreement we are assisting Element to develop a diversified portfolio of up to $2 billion of leased railcars over a multiyear period.
The agreement also provides for our leasing company to be the servicer of their railcar fleet.
This alliance is consistent with our strategy to continue growing our leasing platform while maintaining ongoing relationship with our lessees.
I'm pleased with the way our Inland Barge Group maintained consistent margins on a lower revenue run rate during the fourth quarter.
The group illustrated its operational flexibility in 2013 by successfully converting a portion of its manufacturing capacity from dry cargo barges to tank barges.
This conversion was a significant accomplishment.
Our Construction Products Group is continuing to make good progress to improve its overall performance.
We expect to realize benefits from the repositioning of this segment.
The fourth quarter financial performance of our Energy Equipment Group continued to show significant improvement year-over-year.
We continue to reposition our Energy Equipment Group by expanding its product offerings to serve customers in the oil gas and chemicals industries.
In January we announced the acquisition of 2 companies that manufactured cryogenic products.
In addition in early February we announced the acquisition of Platinum Energy Services.
Platinum manufactures a variety of products that are used at the wellsite and midstream locations.
These 3 companies expand our portfolio of Energy Equipment products and bring strong competencies as well as energy industry expertise to our businesses.
The energy renaissance in the U.S.
and Canada has created strong demand for many of our storage and transportation products.
During the past few years our customers have ordered railcars and barges to transport crude oil as well as storage tanks to hold various forms of gas products.
We anticipate there will be demand for storage and transportation of products supporting the production of chemicals and petrochemicals.
Our companies are in a strong position to serve this demand.
Over the long term we expect to see additional demand developing in Mexico for our transportation and storage products that serve the oil gas and chemicals industries.
Trinity's financial health remains solid and we're in a strong position with a large backlog of orders in our major businesses.
Our businesses are driven by sustainable progress and are constantly striving to reach new levels of achievement.
We're continuing to devote resources to identify acquisition candidates that have products services technology and competencies that enrich and expand our industrial manufacturing platforms.
Our people make a major difference in the performance of our company.
We have a very strong team and we continue to add resources that will help us perform better.
I'm especially proud of the accomplishments of the industrial athletes who work in our manufacturing facilities.
They have performed exceptionally well as we continue to flex our production lines in order -- to pursue orders for products in the oil gas and chemical industries.
I'll now turn it over to Bill McWhirter for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with our Inland Barge Group's fourth quarter results which showed solid improvement over the third quarter of 2013 in large part due to our recent investment in our facilities.
These investments enhanced our flexibility allowing us to produce a more favorable product mix.
During the fourth quarter our barge group took orders totaling approximately $97 million bringing the barge backlog to $430 million at the end of the year.
Demand for hopper barges is still weak despite the relatively strong harvest last fall which typically stimulates equipment purchases.
We believe this is in part due to coal barges being converted to transport agriculture products.
We are watching these demand drivers closely and are well positioned should a pick up in activity occur.
Demand drivers for tank barge orders continues to be favorable.
However our customers are closely monitoring the absorption of new equipment into the marketplace.
As upstream infrastructure investments are completed we expect downstream markets to begin to expand resulting in increased shipments of chemical and petrochemical commodities which should have a positive effect on tank barge demand.
For the full year of 2014 we currently expect a revenue run rate similar to 2013 and a slight decline in profit due to our planned production mix.
We have a steady backlog of orders and our facilities are well positioned to respond to any additional changes in demand.
Moving to our Construction Products Group.
Revenue increased modestly due to acquisition-related volumes.
Operating margin declined year-over-year to 6.2% from 8.5% primarily due to weather-related issues.
The first quarter of 2014 continues to be relatively slow due to poor weather conditions.
In the fourth quarter we acquired a galvanizing business located in San Antonio Texas.
This facility provides a full range of galvanizing services to a diverse group of industrial and energy end markets in the surrounding area.
Our galvanizing operations are primary located in the southern U.S.
We will continue to seek opportunities in the galvanizing business.
Inquiry levels for highway products are stable with activity in 2014 expected to be similar to 2013.
There continues to be uncertainty due to the expiration of the current federal highway bill in October.
Until these issues are addressed revenue and earnings growth from this segment will likely be acquisition related.
Moving to our Energy Equipment Group.
During the fourth quarter the group set new records for both quarterly and annual revenues.
I am pleased with the group progress in growing its portfolio of businesses.
Fourth quarter revenue increased approximately 13% year-over-year primarily due to increased shipments in domestic containers serving agricultural industrial and residential markets and storage containers serving the energy sector.
The group reported an operating profit of $17 million and a margin of 9.1%.
Our wind tower business is well positioned to realize operating leverage during 2014 due to the strong backlog of $554 million.
Since the start of this year we completed 3 acquisitions in the Energy Equipment Group.
These businesses are expected to add a combined revenue of $90 million to $100 million on an annual basis.
The acquisition of WesMor Cryogenic and Alloy Custom Products broadens our presence in the cryogenics container market.
Combined these 2 acquisitions have placed Trinity as one of the market leaders in cryogenic transportation equipment.
Cryogenic products are double-walled tanks used to store and transport liquefied gases for a variety of uses.
One of the growing uses is for liquefied natural gas or LNG.
In addition we also acquired Platinum Energy Services which expands our product portfolio to include energy-related equipment used at the wellsite and in midstream locations.
We continue to invest resources to identify and pursue opportunities to add new businesses to our portfolio that enhance our competencies complement our product offering and expands our reach in the markets we are pursuing.
Overall I am pleased with the performance during the fourth quarter.
At this time I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
I'm very pleased with the accomplishments of the TrinityRail team during the fourth quarter and throughout 2013.
Our Rail Group reported its fourth consecutive quarter of record operating profit and our highest ever operating margin driven by a 17% increase in railcar shipments compared with the third quarter.
Our Leasing Group continues to generate strong returns and contribute steady cash flows to the company resulting from strong lease renewals regrowth and our alliance with Element Financial.
I continue to be encouraged with the way our North American industrial markets are developing and the resulting opportunities for TrinityRail.
We are very pleased to have completed the formation of our $2 billion strategic alliance with Element Financial during the fourth quarter.
Our alliance enhances our ability to continue growing our leasing platform in a capital efficient manner while maintaining ongoing relationships with our commercial customers.
Elements' desire to invest in leased railcars and the confidence they have placed in Trinity to originate and manage these assets is an exciting opportunity.
Along with RIV 2013 the $1 billion railcar investment partnership we announced last May these 2 transactions expand the funding relationships we have developed with institutional investors desiring to invest in portfolios of leased railcars.
These lease funding alternatives along with Trinity's strong balance sheet increases our leasing capacity.
Our overall leasing strategy has not changed.
TrinityRail has developed -- was developed to offer comprehensive integrated railcar products and service solutions to our customers a one-stop shop business model including leasing services.
Our model has 2 key objectives: Providing a steady flow of equipment orders for our manufacturing operations and generating a stable stream of earnings and cash flow for Trinity.
Over the last 12 years we have invested significant capital to grow our leased portfolio from approximately 13 000 railcars in 2001 to the size and scale that it has today with over 75 000 railcars under lease to over 500 industrial shippers.
The RIV 2013 and Element transactions increase Trinity's financial flexibility to strengthen our ability to originate leases with our industrial customers while maintaining those direct commercial relationships.
As we originated railcar lease we now have the flexibility to retain the asset in our wholly-owned portfolio sharing the investment with third-party investors as in RIV 2013 or sell the asset and retain the management and servicing like we are doing with Element.
This flexibility enhances our ability to grow our lease portfolio.
I am very pleased with the growth of our leasing platform and the progress we've made in expanding our access to capital to support our strong lease origination capability.
Our Leasing Group earned record operating profit during the fourth quarter resulting from lease fleet additions solid increases in lease rates and secondary market sales of railcars under the initial phase of the program agreement with Element.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the fourth quarter increased to 99.5%.
During the fourth quarter the Rail Group delivered approximately 1 670 new railcars to our lease fleet portfolio.
Our total lease portfolio including partially owned subsidiaries now stands at approximately 75 685 railcars after secondary railcar sales an increase of 6% year-over-year.
At the end of the quarter approximately 17% of the units in our railcar order backlog with a total value of approximately $827 million was slated for customers of our leasing business.
During the fourth quarter the Rail Group delivered 7 280 railcars and generated our highest ever quarterly operating profit and margin.
In spite of several product line changeovers and further capacity additions during the fourth quarter our workforce did an amazing job realizing strong operating efficiencies while meeting stringent customer delivery requirements.
For the full year 2013 we delivered 24 335 railcars a 26% increase over 2012 deliveries.
We anticipate unit deliveries during 2014 to be in the range of 25 500 to 27 500.
North American railcar industry orders in the fourth quarter were solid and continue to reflect improving demand for a broader mix of freight cars.
The industry backlog declined slightly as capacity increases outpaced orders but still remains at a very healthy 72 900 railcars.
During the fourth quarter TrinityRail received orders for 7 125 new railcars including tank cars covered hoppers and auto racks from railroads third-party lessors and industrial shippers.
Our backlog now stands at 39 895 railcars with a value of approximately $5 billion.
Current inquiry levels reflect continuing demand for covered hoppers to serve the frac sand and construction markets grain and petrochemicals such as resins.
Auto racks continue to be in steady demand resulting from increased North American automobile production.
We are receiving an increasing level of inquires for a greater variety of freight cars as the economy continues to grow and fleet replacement opportunities develop.
The markets that we serve are dynamic.
Our highly flexible railcar manufacturing and strong leasing platform is uniquely positioned to respond to market demand changes quickly and effectively.
We have additional production capacity available to respond to increased freight car demand should current market trends continue.
We continue to see attributes of this railcar's cycle as different from previous cycles because of the energy renaissance occurring in North America.
Inquiries for tank cars are continuing at high levels as additional crude oil loading facilities and petrochemical production expansion comes online.
As the energy market matures and investments for infrastructure are completed opportunities for rail transportation will develop throughout the crude oil and petrochemical supply chains.
I would like to provide a brief update on the potential industry regulatory changes pertaining to DOT-111 tank cars that transport flammable liquids.
According to the Railway Supply Institute as of September 30 2013 there are approximately 272 120 DOT-111 tank cars in the North American fleet.
Of that total approximately 94 180 tank cars transport flammable liquids.
Over 70% of the DOT-111 tank cars that transport flammable liquids carry either ethanol or crude oil.
Let me provide some history for you as context for the issues our industry faces.
Following several derailments involving ethanol unit trains and subsequent recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board in May of 2011 the Association of American Railroads Tank Car Committee petitioned the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration PHMSA regarding the reexamination of the existing tank car design transporting hazardous materials including flammable materials.
The AAR tank car committee is comprised of representatives from railroads railcar manufacturers railcar lessors industrial shippers and railcar owners and collaborates closely with the Federal Railway Administration PHMSA and Transport Canada on tank car designs.
A new enhanced tank car design involving thicker steel hedge shields and enhanced top fittings protection was proposed at that time by the AAR Tank Car Committee.
In the absence of PHMSA's issuing a ruling the AAR in good faith adopted the new tank car design for new DOT-111 tank cars ordered after 2011 for flammable service.
These tank cars are referred to in the industry as the good faith tank cars.
The tank cars ordered prior to October 2011 are referred to in the industry as the legacy cars.
As of December 31 2013 there were approximately 12 200 DOT-111 tank cars in flammable service in Trinity's wholly- and partially-owned lease fleets.
Of these tank cars approximately 2 600 are good faith tank cars built to the current AAR standard adopted in October 2011 and approximately 9 600 are legacy cars.
Following the derailment of crude oil unit train in Québec in 2013 and additional derailments that occurred after that time PHMSA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking in September requesting interested parties to comment on recommendations proposed by the National Transportation Safety Board and other petitions regarding regulatory requirements for DOT-111 tank cars.
PHMSA is currently reviewing the comments submitted in response to the advanced notice for proposed rulemaking.
There are 3 categories of tank cars that a proposed rulemaking may likely address.
Proposed rules that may apply to legacy tank cars good faith tank cars and a next-generation tank car.
We are closely monitoring the regulatory process of potential outcomes.
Trinity is a member of the Railway Supply Institute and an active participant on the American Association of Railroads Tank Car Committee.
It is still too early to discuss the possible regulatory changes to DOT-111 tank cars and flammable service that may result or when a ruling may be made.
These are very complex and technical public safety issues that require extensive review as they should.
The rulemaking process is thorough as it is crucial to get input from a wide variety of stakeholders including shippers and carriers railcar owners and builders and state and local officials.
As we gain further clarity we will provide an update on how we plan to address any changes and continue to offer premier railcar products and services to our customers.
I'll now turn it over to James.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced strong fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results reporting record revenues and earnings per share for both periods.
During the quarter we reported revenues of $1.3 billion and earnings of $1.44.
Quarterly net income increased by more than 58% compared to last year resulting in the most profitable quarter in Trinity's history.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 639 000 shares of our common stock in the open market for a total cost of $34 million.
For the full year we repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares for a total cost of $108 million.
The 15% increase in the quarterly dividend we announced in September became effective during the fourth quarter bringing the total increase in the dividend during 2013 to 36%.
The actions taken in 2013 reflect our ongoing commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
The $2 billion strategic railcar lines that we formed with Element Financial during the fourth quarter was an important accomplishment for Trinity.
The alliance enhances our flexibility to continue growing our leasing presence in a capital efficient manner while maintaining ongoing commercial relationships with our lessees.
The capital generated through the alliance can be invested in our Railcar Leasing and Management Services platform our portfolio of diversified industrial businesses or other investments that will enhance shareholder returns.
Since we announced the agreement in December Element has purchased $500 million of railcars from the lease fleet generating earnings per share of approximately $1.12 to $1.22 of which $0.12 per share was recorded in the fourth quarter.
During the next 12 months we plan to deliver another $500 million of leased railcars to Element primarily from our current leasing backlog.
At this time it is difficult to precisely project the exact timing and composition of each group of leased railcars that we will sell to Element.
Revenue and profit from these new railcar sales will be recorded in our Rail Group either as a direct sale to Element or as a sale to the Leasing Group.
If the cars are sold to the Leasing Group we will eliminate the revenue and defer the profit as a consolidated level during that quarter.
The sale of the railcar from the lease fleet to Element in the future quarter will then be recorded in the Leasing Group as a car sale.
Under the terms of the program agreement Element is expected to add another $1 billion of leased railcars to its portfolio during 2015.
These railcars will come from our leasing backlog the wholly-owned lease fleet and from other secondary market sources.
During 2013 we invested capital across a number of areas.
We invested approximately $150 million in capital expenditures for our manufacturing and corporate operations and $581 million in the lease fleet.
We returned approximately $145 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and invested $73 million in acquisitions during the year.
In 2014 we expect to identify additional investment opportunities in all of these areas.
The timing of our investments will be determined by our ability to fund quality opportunities as the year progresses.
During the last decade we invested nearly $4.8 billion in our Railcar Leasing business.
Its scale now provides a base float of business for our rail manufacturing companies and a steady level of earnings and cash flow for our shareholders.
The Element alliance along with the RIV 2013 investment partnership that we formed last May provides us with additional financial flexibility.
Given our strong financial position the followed backlog of orders in our major businesses and a stable leasing operations platform the time is right to pursue growth opportunities that will enhance the other business segments within our diversified industrial portfolio.
We were off to a strong start in 2014 with respect to investing our capital for growth.
We've already completed 3 acquisitions in our Energy Equipment Group for a total investment of approximately $120 million.
WesMor Cryogenics Alloy Custom Products and Platinum Energy manufacture products that provide us with important competencies as we grow our presence in the energy markets.
As we work with our Board of Directors on the investment of capital our focus is on enhancing the long-term growth of the company and increasing shareholder value.
I will now turn to our current outlook for the year 2014.
For the first quarter of 2014 we anticipate earnings per share of between $2.45 and $2.65 which includes between $1 and $1.10 per share of profit from sales of leased railcars to Element already closed during the quarter.
Our anticipation for EPS for the full year is between $6.30 and $7.
In the Rail Group our 2014 revenue guidance is between $3.1 billion and $3.4 billion based on our delivery guidance of between 25 500 and 27 500 railcars.
We expect a full year operating margin of between 17.5% and 19% for the Rail Group.
This group continues to achieve strong margins and maintains an order backlog of $5 billion of railcars for future deliveries.
In the Inland Barge Group we expect full year revenues of between $550 million and $580 million in 2014 with an operating margin of between 14% and 16% for the year.
In the Energy Equipment Group our 2014 revenue guidance is between $840 million and $885 million.
This represents expected growth of 26% to 33% and would result in record revenues for this group.
We expect the range of operating margin for the year to be between 11% and 12%.
The year-over-year improvement in both the revenues and profit reflects the expected solid performance of our wind towers business strong demand for storage containers and results from the recent acquisitions made in this group.
In the Construction Products Group we expect full year revenues of between $530 million and $560 million in 2014 with an operating margin of between 12% and 13.5%.
The improvement in results reflects the benefits from repositioning activities that have been occurring in this group.
In the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group we expect 2014 operating level revenue of between $585 million and $615 million and operating profit of between $260 million $280 million similar to 2013 levels.
As a result of the sale of the first $500 million of railcars to Element our profit from leasing operations is expected to be between $30 million and $35 million lower than have the cars remained in our lease fleet.
As a reminder the operating results for our Railcar Leasing joint ventures TRIP and our RIV 2013 are fully consolidated within the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group.
The earnings related to the equity not held by Trinity are deducted from Trinity's net income to the noncontrolling interest line at the bottom of the income statement.
As a result of this we expect to deduct between $27 million and $35 million of earnings in 2014.
As we have indicated on previous earnings calls TRIP and RIV 2013's partnership tax status results in no taxes applied to the amount of noncontrolling earnings deducted from Trinity's income statement.
In addition to the guidance I just provided for the Leasing Group we expect to report revenue from railcars sales from the lease fleet of between $315 million and $330 million and operating profit of between $165 million to $180 million primarily from the program agreement with Element.
Our railcars sales reported in revenue if the railcar has been in the fleet for less than 1 year.
Otherwise it is reported as a disposition of a long-term asset with no revenue recorded.
Of the $396 million of railcars that were sold to Element during January approximately $174 million will be reported in first quarter revenue and the remaining amount will be reported on the cash flow statement as proceeds from car sales.
As I mentioned earlier the amount of revenue and profit recognized from car sales in 2014 will depend on the timing of lease railcar deliveries to Element.
There could be a shift from car sale revenue and profit to leasing eliminations and deferrals or vice versa in any one quarter with no impact on the overall level of consolidated profit recorded though the timing may vary from one quarter to another.
For 2014 we expect to eliminate between $645 million and $675 million of revenue and defer between $100 million and $115 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to the wholly- and partially-owned lease fleet including railcars sold to RIV 2013.
The level of eliminations is lower than last year primarily due to the program agreement with Element.
For 2014 we do not expect the net investment in new railcars to consume any cash due to expected proceeds received from railcar sales during the year.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2014 are expected to be between $200 million and $250 million as we maintain our facilities and invest in organic growth to meet market demand for our products.
We expect between $250 million and $270 million of revenue eliminations for other intercompany transactions.
In addition corporate expenses are expected to range from $87 million to $97 million for the year as a result of our growing business operations and acquisitions.
For 2014 our guidance assumes a tax rate of between 35% and 36% for the year.
Before I conclude let me address the accounting treatment on our earnings per share calculation for the company's $450 million of convertible notes issued in 2006.
Details pertaining to these notes are included in Note 11 of our 10-K.
These convertible notes will have a dilutive effect on quarterly EPS if the average market price of our common stock during the quarter exceeds the convertible note's conversion price.
At the end of 2013 the conversion price was $50.78.
Since issuance of the notes our quarterly average stock price has been below the conversion price.
Thus we have not included any additional shares in the denominator of our diluted EPS calculation for any historical quarterly reporting period.
Our common stock is currently trading above the conversion price.
If the average price of the stock for the quarter remains above the conversion price we will report additional shares as part of our diluted EPS calculation.
For example a $60 average stock price would result in an additional 1.4 million shares being added to our diluted share count for the purposes of calculating EPS.
Our annual guidance uses the full year weighted average share count of approximately 77 million shares for the purpose of calculating fully diluted EPS.
This share count includes the potential dilutive impact from our convertible notes at the $60 price that was used in my example.
As a reminder we are required to report EPS using the 2-plus method of accounting.
The result of which should be the reduction of EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.23 per share for the full year 2014 compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
This is included in our EPS guidance as well.
Our full year guidance range reflects earnings per share growth of 33% to 47% compared to last year and was the result of the achievement of a new level of record annual earnings for Trinity.
We remain very pleased with the focused dedication of all of our employees who helped deliver impressive growth and high quality earnings during 2013.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to the side of Steve Barger with Keybanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> I think I'm going to just jump into the acquisitions first.
As you mentioned on a trailing 12-month basis you've added almost $100 million.
Without drilling down into each of the 3 deals can you give us a general operating margin profile for those acquired properties excluding onetime items or on a purely operational basis? Yes Steve this is Bill.
I think when we look at those operations from a margin perspective they're probably relatively consistent with where you see our Energy Equipment Group today.
We would hope longer term there's opportunity for margin expansion as we integrate the businesses particularly the 2 cryogenics businesses as we put those together.
Research Division</strong> Should we be thinking there are other deals of this type to get scale in those specific applications? Or are those part of a broader product and service spectrum that you're trying to fill in to pursue a strategy? Steve this is Tim.
I think the answer is yes to both of your questions.
We like to focus on certain products that we're -- we think are adjacent to our businesses like the cryogenic products.
And then we also like to look for some newer ones as well as we're going to be expanding some of our existing ones.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And how should we think about growth rates for those cryogenic companies? And I guess same question for Platinum.
And if you can't talk about those properties specifically can you help us think about the industry growth rates that you see? James do you want to take that? Sure.
Steve this is James.
I think it's a little early for us to forecast growth rates and potential we have.
We certainly see a lot of potential in the cryogenic space as well as the oilfield equipment space that Platinum gets us into as well as the Canadian market that Platinum helps us enter in a bigger way as well.
So again a little too early to forecast that.
This year's embedded in the guidance we provided.
But as we seek more market opportunities and seek expansion opportunities as we develop the enrichment between existing businesses as we have in these new businesses we'll be able to provide that as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one other and then I'll jump back in line.
How much of this is reacting to or I guess anticipating requirements for companies where you already have a relationship in one of your other lines of business? And does that really help you kickstart growth here? Or are you more assembling capabilities to put together a service package or a product package that you can then take to market? Bill? Yes.
Steve I think when you look at our 2 acquisitions they really complement each other well.
One has strengths on the stainless steel side another had strengths on the aluminum side.
And so as we look forward and particularly in the usage of LNG we see a lot of applications.
Certainly there's been a fair amount of talk about the use of LNG through locomotives in the rail side.
There's fair amount of talk in the marine business and the barge business as well.
And so I think as we think broadly downstream for Trinity we see a lot of opportunities in these business lines in the cryogenic technology.
And so for us it was getting the competencies together and then plotting a plan as we move forward.
Yes.
And Steve this is Tim.
We already are producing cryogenic tanks in Mexico serving that market for stationary tanks.
So we really feel like there's a great domino effect associated with these acquisitions.
And we'll go next to the side of Allison Poliniak from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> James I just want to understand a little bit more your guidance range.
And I know the uncertainty about that second tranche of Element coming through.
Can we assume more of these are going to TILC through -- target level is going to TILC to I just assume a lower end of that guidance range? I'm just trying to think -- just see how I should think about that.
You're referring to our overall guidance range for the company or for the specific Element...
LLC Research Division</strong> For the company specific I guess either however you wanted to address it.
I'm just trying to get a sense of -- I know it's hard for you guys to say yes now but does that lower end assume more go to TILC versus Element? Yes.
I think what we said is in terms of the overall guidance range for the company we always at this early point of the year try to give a pretty wide range and a sense of where we are.
The guidances I gave for each businesses gives you the scale of how large a company we've become and how much opportunity we have within those ranges to perform.
In terms of the second tranche of Element cars the $500 million as we said the exact timing and composition is still being worked through with Element.
As we said the majority of that will be from our leasing backlog.
Now because of timing of when a car is produced and delivered whether it gets sold to Element during the quarter or the next quarter will depend on whether you see it come out as a car sale or purely a new car sale from the OEM segment.
So that won't impact the margin range within the guidance that we've given you or the profitability of the transaction itself.
That's simply going to be geography.
And we can certainly help you with that on a quarter-by-quarter basis when we report those results.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's terrific.
And then Steve you gave a number of the leasings as it stands.
Is that at the end of Q4 or did that include the sales to Element in Q1 as well? This is of the end of the fourth quarter 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you willing to provide the Q as it is today? Not today no.
We'll go next to the side of Justin Long from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you more confident in some of the non-tank rail car markets coming back the next several years? It seems like you are based on the increase you're seeing in the market.
And also if you look at the manufacturing operation today in the Rail Group what are some of the non-tank railcar types where you have latent capacity? Steve do you want to take that? Yes.
Sure Justin good question.
We really are seeing a broadening in demand for railcars beyond just tank cars for crude oil service.
Let me just talk about tank cars for a moment before I get into the freight cars.
Again crude oil is the initial phase of tank car demand.
But as refined products continue to expand and the petrochemical complex expands we're going to see additional need for tank cars to carry those refined products as well.
So I think there's still growth and legs [ph] to the tank car demand.
Now freight cars we're seeing strong demand really across-the-board.
We're seeing significant demand for small cube covered hoppers for frac sand and construction product.
We're also seeing demand for covered hoppers that will carry grain products.
And again part of the expansion of the petrochemical sector we expect that demand will only grow for covered hoppers for resins and plastics.
So we are very well positioned to address any additional freight car demand from a capacity standpoint.
And we really do see some growth in that area to complement what we're doing on the tank car side.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
My second question was on the balance sheet.
So your debt today is mainly nonrecourse debt associated with the lease fleet.
And I was wondering how you think about the level of leverage you feel comfortable bringing on as you pursue acquisitions going forward.
Yes Justin this is James.
I think as you point out that we have a strong balance sheet.
The majority of the debt is non-recourse on the leasing side.
You've seen the leverage on that side continue to come down as we have financed a lot of our growth in the lease fleet with our cash flow from operations and from the capital that we've generated through our alliances and partnerships over the last year.
From the corporate side of the balance sheet as you mentioned really the only piece there is the convertible debt and the cash we have puts us in a net cash position on the balance sheet.
In terms of comfort around leverage we are an investment-grade company from S&amp;P and Fitch now.
That's a good position for us to be in and it broadens our excess to the financial markets.
We wouldn't put ourselves in a position of stating exactly what level of leverage we're comfortable with.
Having that investment-grade rating gives us a lot of opportunities.
But as we're making acquisitions or investing in the company that's also bringing with it cash flow and earnings so that that increases your capacity there.
So I think I'd say we have a lot of room we have $1.3 billion of liquidity between our cash and immediately available facilities certainly more on the debt and equity markets if we had that need.
But I don't think we'd be able to give you a number on how much leverage we're comfortable with.
But we'd certainly feel confident that we've got the ability to pursue opportunities for growth in the company with the balance sheet we have and the cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's fair.
I guess one last one.
I just wanted to clarify so is the next tranche of $500 million of sales going to Element is that reflected in your guidance? Yes it is.
And again it's expected over the next 12 months.
It's going to come primarily from the leasing backlog vis-a-vis primarily new cars.
And it is included in the guidance.
We're not breaking out the specific component from that because it's a Leasing Group of customers and then a third-party sale to Element of that railcar.
So it is included in the guidance yes.
And we'll take our next question from the side of Eric Crawford from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just want a quick point of clarification on the deliveries guidance.
I think the midpoint implies a 9% decline in deliveries from the 4Q run rate.
Is that just a function of Element deliveries coming from lease fleet rather than backlog? How should we be thinking about that? Eric this is Steve.
Yes I wouldn't necessarily relate our delivery cadence with Element in that backlog.
As I mentioned we had some significant delivery requirements to meet customers' needs to have cars in service by the end of 2013 which caused us to ratch up a little bit more in the fourth quarter.
I think the run rate of 25 500 to 27 500 is the right rate that you'll see on average over the 4 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
But should we be thinking about a constant average run rate for the 4 quarters? Or do any quarters in particular stand out? Well generally our deliveries are within a fairly narrow range.
We're going to have some changes in delivery numbers based upon product mix and potential line changeovers.
But again I feel good about the range of deliveries we've given you for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
No that's helpful.
And I guess next it's a common theme for everyone but if you could speak more broadly to the opportunity you're seeing with respect to tank car safety seeing reports of some customers looking to buy new rather than retrofit.
And other OEMs have commented they're hopeful to see some movement on the regulatory front in the next 60 to 90 days.
So I was just wondering if you could speak to what you're seeing there.
Yes.
Eric I mean it's all speculation.
The PHMSA has a very clear process that they must go through.
They're in a quiet period following the request for peers' opinions and submittals under the advanced notice of proposal we're making.
We're very much engaged in any conversations within the industry with our customers.
We're looking at a number of different scenarios.
I think we'll be prepared for whatever outcome comes to us from a rulemaking.
But I still think we're a little bit in the offering before we know what those are.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last for me.
Just switching over to barge.
I guess that coal-to-ag barge switching dynamic that you called out is that gaining momentum or has it been more limited? I guess with the big harvest and the higher nat gas prices that we're seeing at least now I think that there might be less momentum there.
Yes Eric I think the momentum has definitely slowed down on the conversions.
We did see it pretty strong for a period of time.
But we are seeing a slowdown at this point in time.
And we'll go next to Bascome Majors from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask another one on sort of the acquisition front.
You've talked a little bit about leverage and where you're seeking to deploy capital.
But now that Element's out there we have some of the same visibility you do into some of the cash inflows from your leasing monetization efforts over the next couple of years.
I mean can you help us think about sizing up the amount of capital you and your board are comfortable with deploying over the next couple of years here? And just give us a little sense to the cadence or pace of that that you guys had as you think about growing the business outside of rail.
Okay Bascome this is Tim.
We were very focused in our business development process within our company and we know our markets and our industries real well that our businesses participate in.
And we've got a broad group of relationships that provide a large number of opportunities for us.
So in the business development in the business growth area we always have something going on in that particular area.
We're either participating in a formal bidding process for a company or we're taking some delivered steps to discuss opportunities with principles of companies that we're interested in.
It's just a very dynamic environment and it's hard for us to pinpoint one particular item at this time.
Sometimes our transactions occur very quickly and in other times they take a long time to finalize the deal.
And that's how the history of our company has been for decades.
We're fortunate to have a highly flexible and collaborative manufacturing platform that we build upon.
And when we look at an acquisition candidate we always analyze their enrichment value and that's the value that they bring to us and the value that our manufacturing platform will add to their business.
And this enrichment flows both ways.
And so on some of the smaller deals we may get some competencies and we may get some technology that's very crucial to us.
The acquisitions that we did in the cryogenic business were very small but they have opportunities with the seeds that have been planted to grow into something very large and make a significant impact.
A lot of times when we acquire a company we may have an idle facility that we think we can convert some manufacturing space over to.
We're just constantly reviewing growth opportunities that fit within our current business or adjacent to our manufacturing platforms in that area.
So it's just really hard for us to quantify them and put the dollar and cents to the size.
We're not afraid of doing a large acquisition.
In fact we have a pretty good appetite in that particular area but it's a matter of finding something that fits really well with our culture and fits with the manufacturing platform that we have.
And we're very confident that we will have some very interesting opportunities this year and next year as we -- on a go-forward basis.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Maybe -- could you help us get a sense for what the boundaries of small medium or large would be in your eyes? No.
Because like I said we don't really categorize something as a small medium and large.
We look at it as to the potential that we think that business can bring to us and then the value that we can create on a go-forward basis.
But as James said we've got significant liquidity.
Our balance sheet capacity is great we've got cash flow coming in.
So we can handle a relatively large acquisition.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
Understood.
And I'll just ask one more on a different angle.
This morning the largest crude carrier among the Class Is confirmed that they were seeking to purchase their own fleet of newer tank cars in light of some of the public and regulatory safety concerns that you addressed earlier in your call.
Rails owning tank cars would be a pretty dramatic shift from the traditional operating lessor-and-shipper ownership structure here.
Could you confirm if you're getting inquiries from multiple railroads on the tank car side today? Bascome this is Steve.
We don't comment on specific orders or order inquiries.
I agree with you that a major railroad taking ownership of tank cars is something different in our industry.
And I have seen where BNSF have made their large announcement earlier this morning about an interest to purchase tank cars.
We'll certainly look at this business opportunity like we look in the other orders.
And yes there's going to be a number of people looking to buy a lot of tank cars following regulatory change.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
Understood.
Do you think -- I mean hypothetically since it's early at this point I mean could this impact or could this change the safety debate in any way in your eyes and how that plays out if they emerge as buyers and owners in this asset class which they historically haven't been? I don't think so.
I mean railroads have always been concerned about tank cars safety whether they own them or not.
And there's 330 000 340 000 tank cars in North America.
So I think the tank car segment is a strong market segment it's going to continue to grow.
At the same time Steve -- this is Tim.
Berkshire already owns tank cars.
So it's just really one of their units owning tank cars versus another one.
Good point.
Union Tank Car of course another subsidiary of Marmon group which is owned by the Berkshire companies Berkshire Hathaway which also owns Burlington Northern Santa Fe.
And we'll go next to Sal Vitale from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification.
When you say the next tranche of the $500 million to Element that will come from the leased backlog so just to make sure I understand that that is -- will not be eliminated so the profit will not be eliminated on that correct? Ultimately that's correct.
You may see in 1 quarter the profit eliminated as it goes into our lease fleet and then is sold to Element that's simply a matter of timing and geography as I mentioned.
But once the cars are sold to Element you'll see a full recognition of the profit at a consolidated level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then when you say that the guidance that you gave on all the categories so basically the profit on the $500 million would be included in the leased profit right rather than the manufacturing profit? The majority of that would be in the manufacturing profit as the majority of this will come out of the Rail Group directly.
There may be some that move to leasing first and come from that.
And again we'll update that on a quarterly basis if we see that shift.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then the other question is if I just look at your backlog you have about 40 000 cars in the backlog and the midpoint of your guidance for '14 is 26 500.
How do I think about this? Does all of that 26 500 should we assume that all comes from the backlog? Or is some of it or are you envisioning some of those deliveries to come from current year orders? Sal this is Steve.
Good question.
We certainly expect a significant number of our deliveries to come from our backlog.
We do have unsold space on several of our product lines production lines in 2014.
So there may be some additional sales that will come from those opportunities.
And we'll go next to the side of Matt Brooklier from Longbow Research.
In your prepared remarks you talked about potential opportunity within Mexico.
And I'm just curious to hear kind of your overall thoughts on what that opportunity could look like.
That's an energy market.
Currently they're going pretty radical change here.
Just curious to hear where potentially Trinity fits into that market which in particular businesses and what's your level of I guess conviction that you can grab incremental business in that particular market? Okay.
This is Tim.
As I said during the past few years our customers have ordered railcars and barges to transfer crude oil and they're ordering tanks for the storage of it.
And if you look at our product line it fits real well to serve all of our products fit real well to serve the oil gas and chemical industries.
And so we're just closely monitoring the opportunities in Mexico.
We've got great relationships down in Mexico we've got a board member that used to be the CEO of Pemex at one time.
And so we're following the proposed legislation and the changes that could open up the energy markets and increase the privatization down there.
So it's more of a longer term "let's sit on the sidelines and look at what opportunities are there and then let's be prepared to strike when we think the appropriate time fits." We're building right now in Mexico loads of frac sand cars as an example and we're building tank cars down there.
So we're geographically desirably set up.
We're building tanks right now of all different types that serve that particular market.
So our Mexico companies that we have are really strategically located to serve that market on a very rapid basis should the demand increase.
Okay.
I mean is the opportunity more on the railcar side or is it more on the tank storage side? Or is it a little bit of both maybe? I think it's across-the-board from the Energy Equipment business segment that we have as well as the Railcar segment that we have.
Okay.
And then just another question about regulation.
Is there any other I guess preemptive measures that tank car buyers are currently making ahead of potential regulation? I mean for the most part we don't know what the final rule could look like.
We do have kind of a sense of what the requirements may be.
And I'm just curious to hear of kind of the equipment mix on the tank car side that shifted further towards jacketed cars versus nonjacketed cars and kind of the overall potential benefit for Trinity.
Matt this is Steve.
Yes certainly we're in dialogues with all of our customers about potential outcomes and about orders they may have placed with us.
We really haven't had a situation where a major customer shifted from a non-jacketed car to a jacketed car because the non-jacketed cars are acceptable under the regulations.
And I think you have to understand from the shippers' standpoint because oil continues to come out of the ground.
They have refineries they have to be able to continue to feed.
So just halting railcar shipments whether that's new equipment that they have earmarked for expansion or whether it's existing equipment just not very feasible.
And so I think we continue to make what we make and then assuming as the regulations are available we're going to make that shift and produce those cars for our customers.
And we'll go next to the side of Art Hatfield from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> James I know you don't want another question on Element and your guidance.
But just on your elimination guidance are you currently assuming all $500 million will be direct sale or is a portion of that you have going through the lease fleet at this point in time? And I know you'll update us as time goes on but just kind of for an understanding of where the guidance stands now.
Sure Art.
Thanks for that.
And that's why we give ranges.
The guidance we gave is that the vast majority of that is through the elimination line directly from the Rail Group.
But the car sale figure that we gave you and then the elimination figure that we gave you does include some of that flowing through.
But for the most part the vast majority is directly from the Rail Group.
And again we'll update that each quarter as we move along and get more precise timing around that.
Recall that we already have a piece of that recorded in the first quarter that we reported previously what shows up in revenues versus what shows up not as revenues those kinds of things.
We're happy to walk you through that after the call as well.
But hopefully that helps.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No no that actually that -- no that helps me a lot just to get that clarification.
Just another thing and I don't know if this is just an accounting thing but can you kind of help me understand.
In the fourth quarter of '13 you sold about -- from the lease fleet you sold about $112 million worth of cars and generated a profit of $16 million whereas a year ago you sold $50 million and generated about $15 million of profit.
Can you just walk me through kind of what happened year-over-year there and if I'm not really...
I'll mention that in a few different ways Art.
Clearly one thing is simply mix and which cars you're selling and what leases are attached.
Another thing is and again we can walk you through this the revenue piece of this whether a car is less than 1 year old and recorded as revenue versus a car that's more than 1 year old and not shows up as revenue can make a big difference in that margin.
It's all going to show up as profit the only portion that may show up is revenue.
The cars that we sold in the fourth quarter this year could have a different mix in that perspective in terms of ages fourth quarter a year ago.
So we can track that with you as we file our 10-K later today and help you with that math.
And we'll go next to the side of Willard Milby.
It sounds like Willard Milby's phone may be having some problems.
We'll take our next question from Barry Haimes with Sage Asset Management.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
One if there is a retrofit market that develops when the safety regulations come out is there anyway you can give us a broad range per car let's say to size that? And would you need to bring out some more capacity to handle that since you're pretty full on your tank car capacity now? That's the first question.
Barry it's really hard to speculate on the nature of a retrofit until we know what the retrofit is.
Recall that in the fourth quarter we made an acquisition in maintenance services when we acquired Seaboard which expanded our maintenance service capabilities.
Specifically retrofit work will be done at a maintenance facility as opposed to a new car production facility.
So we're looking at alternatives to be able to support our fleet and any customers if and when our retrofits are required.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question was on the acquisition program that you talked about can you -- and obviously each profit will be somewhat different.
But can you give us a sense of what sort of IR hurdle rate you're looking at or what kind of spread across the capital you're looking at? Sure Barry this is James.
Thanks for that.
We really just don't dive in to what our hurdle rates might be what IRR rates might be.
We clearly look at all of those factors when we discuss potential investments across the company internal and external with our Board of Directors.
But we take into account those exact types of things as well as the long-term benefits we have enrichment opportunities we have as Tim mentioned and what it's going to do for the company and the shareholder value.
So we just don't dive into that certainly externally.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
The new ethylene plants that are scheduled to come on in the second half of the decade about when would you start to see railcar orders to service those new plants? Barry this is Steve.
Certainly there's a lot of investment plan to expand ethylene cracker capacity that's exciting for us.
We started to see the initial inquiries for rail cars to transport resins out of several of those expanded facilities.
And we expect that to continue.
I would look and I think we said in previous conference calls that 2015 '16 we would expect to see a good flow of railcars for those operations.
And we'll go next to -- we'll do a follow-up from Bascome Majors.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask your thoughts on cash taxes for the year given that some of the lease fleet is aging and the composition is changing a bit.
I'm just curious if you expect the cash versus book tax mix to change dramatically this year.
Sure Bas.
I think you have seen that change over the last few years.
As you've seen the depreciation of our lease fleet flow through the system.
As you've seen the bonus depreciation opportunities for the last couple of years we've looked at that certainly with our partnerships as well.
Now they have tax partnership status.
So we would expect the cash tax aspect as opposed to the GAAP tax aspect to continue to increase this year as we go through the quarters.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is there any guidance you can give us about a cash tax rate or perhaps a directional trend in deferred taxes this year? No.
I think it's a little early to go through that.
We're still working through the 2013 taxes of course as we file that later this year.
And then as we see what opportunities present themselves in terms of how we handle lease fleet sales how we look at the depreciation of our own lease fleet acquisitions we might make those kind of thing.
There's a lot of variables there that impact that quite a bit.
So I don't think we'd be able to here in February provide any detailed guidance for much direction beyond what I said earlier.
It looks like that concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard time today through midnight on February 27 2014.
The access number is (402) 220-0117.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
Please feel free to disconnect at anytime.
Good day and before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ms.
Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries' First Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are: Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased with our record financial results for the first quarter which was enhanced by a large sale of railcars from our lease fleet.
Our businesses did an outstanding job of driving operating leverage and efficiencies to the bottom line.
We're also making good progress in the business development area.
We completed 3 acquisitions during the first quarter within our Energy Equipment Group.
These activities built upon the positive momentum already occurring within our company.
Our Rail Group generated record financial results in the first quarter and significantly increased its order backlog.
I'm pleased with the group's ability to continue improving its performance while converting manufacturing space making line changeovers and collaborating with Trinity's internal supply chain to maximize profitability.
Our Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group delivered another quarter of solid operating results.
In addition they did a good job of completing the railcar transaction I mentioned earlier.
I'm pleased with our Inland Barge Group's financial performance during the first quarter.
They obtained orders during the first quarter that were crucial to filling gaps in their production lines for the balance of the year.
Our Construction Products Group continues to make good progress improving its overall performance resulting from the repositioning activities we completed last year.
The first quarter financial performance of our Energy Equipment Group continued to show improvement year-over-year.
I'm pleased with this group's efforts to expand its product offerings.
Today Trinity is uniquely positioned to provide a variety of transportation and storage products to the oil gas and chemicals industries.
Our Railcar Barge and Energy Equipment groups have very high quality products to serve the demand in these industries.
We will continue to leverage our resources to pursue opportunities to expand our product offerings and extend our market leadership positions.
Trinity's financial performance during the first quarter demonstrates the progress we're making in attaining our corporate vision of becoming a premier diversified industrial company.
Our strong financial results were supported by the successful execution of our corporate business model which generates value by leveraging the strengths of our businesses within our portfolio.
Many of Trinity's businesses receive share and generate value through various interactions with one another.
I'm very pleased with the way our businesses are collaborating to generate strong financial results for our company.
I'm very proud of our people whose capabilities and hard work enable us to realign our manufacturing capacity to meet strong demand for products to support the energy industries.
Our short-term priorities during the next year are to operate our company on lean principles while providing superior products and services to our customers create shareholder value through a variety of organic initiatives acquire and successfully integrate industrial manufacturing businesses into our portfolio and to conduct railcar leasing and other asset transactions that provide incremental earnings.
Today Trinity is in a strong position with backlogs of orders in our major businesses that enable us to continue to generate operating efficiencies.
Our future is bright our financial health has never been better and we have a great deal of positive momentum occurring within our company.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
The Inland Barge Group achieved strong margins during the first quarter on slightly lower revenue due to a favorable product mix and production efficiencies in our plants.
During the first quarter we received orders totaling approximately $215 million bringing the barge backlog to $508 million at the end of March.
Our production plans for 2014 are now solidified and orders are being taken for deliveries in 2015.
Demand for hopper barges is recovering as scrap prices improve and barge traffic along the inland waterways increases due to stronger exports of corn wheat and soybeans.
Demand drivers for tank barges continues to be favorable with backlogs in the industry stretching into 2015.
As infrastructure investments in the energy sector are completed we expect additional expansions in downstream markets resulting in rising shipments of chemical and petrochemical commodities.
As a result of the improvement in hopper barge demand and the level of orders taken during the quarter we recently shifted some production capacity from smaller tank barges to hopper barges.
We also enhanced our profit forecast for the Inland Barge Group in 2014.
I am pleased with how our barge group has responded to various demand drivers and maximized efficiencies within the plants to drive profit.
This group's operational flexibility is a key differentiator enabling us to enhance profitability and respond to our customers needs.
Moving to our Construction Products Group.
Year-over-year revenue increased modestly during the first quarter due to acquisition-related volumes.
A more favorable product mix drove an increase in operating margin from 7.4% during the first quarter of last year to 9.3% this year on an adjusted basis excluding the gain on a land sale.
I am pleased with the performance of this group considering much of the first quarter was negatively impacted by weather conditions across the country.
Included in the first quarter profit is an $11.2 million gain on the sale of certain land held by our Aggregates business.
This gain was included in our annual guidance provided for the group on the last conference call.
First quarter results for the Construction Products Group typically reflect the seasonal low point and we expect a pickup in activity across the group's portfolio during the summer construction season.
So far this quarter we have seen strong demand in the Texas market which is usually a good indicator of overall demand for our Aggregates business.
Inquiry levels for highway products continue to remain stable compared to 2013 although uncertainty exists due to the upcoming expiration of the current federal highway bill in October.
We are monitoring potential legislation closely and are prepared to respond should demand levels change.
Moving to our Energy Equipment Group.
During the first quarter the group set a new record for quarterly revenues and increased its operating profit performance year-over-year by 54%.
Revenues and profits increased primarily due to higher shipments of storage containers serving the energy sector coupled with improved performance in our wind tower business.
I am pleased with the progress we are making integrating our recently acquired companies.
In the first quarter we announced 3 acquisitions in the Energy Equipment Group.
Two of the acquisitions were in the cryogenic container market which places Trinity among the North American market leaders providing cryogenic transportation equipment.
The addition of Platinum Energy Services expands our product portfolio to include energy-related equipment used at the well site and in midstream locations.
These businesses combined are expected to add revenue of $90 million to $100 million on an annual basis.
We continue to invest resources to identify and pursue opportunities to add new businesses to our industrial portfolio that enhance our competencies complement our product offering and expand our reach in the markets we are pursuing.
Overall I am pleased with our performance during the first quarter.
At this time I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
I continue to be very pleased with the operating performance and achievements of our Rail and Leasing Groups.
The focused efforts of our dedicated TrinityRail team the benefits of our integrated business model and both our operating and financial flexibility continue to drive record performance levels for our businesses.
During the first quarter our Leasing Group again earned record operating profit due to continued strong market fundamentals as well as profit recognized from sales of leased railcars to Element Financial Corporation.
Lease renewals continue to show strong rate increases and longer lease terms.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the first quarter was 99.5% up from 98.4% last year.
So far in 2014 we have sold $517 million of leased railcars in the secondary market the majority of which were sold to Element under the strategic alliance formed last December.
Selling railcars from our leased portfolio to various financial institutions and managing those leases while retaining our commercial relationships with the lessees is an important strategy of the TrinityRail business model.
We developed a strong competency in syndicating leased railcars while simultaneously growing our wholly-owned lease fleet.
Secondary market activities help us to manage lease fleet portfolio diversification and create additional value through the monetization of leased assets when market conditions are most favorable.
I am very pleased with the success we've had in growing our leasing platform and expanding our access to institutional capital to support our strong lease origination capability.
During the first quarter our Leasing Group took delivery of approximately 2 280 new railcars.
Our total lease fleet portfolio including partially-owned subsidiaries now stands at approximately 73 545 railcars a 1% increase year-over-year even after first quarter leased railcar sales.
At the end of the quarter approximately 22% of the units in our railcar order backlog with a total value of $1 billion were slated for customers of our leasing business.
During the first quarter the Rail Group delivered 6 890 railcars and generated our highest-ever quarterly operating profit and margin.
The skill and efficiency with which our employees have enhanced our operational flexibility leading to further increases in our production capacity to accommodate growing customer demand is quite remarkable.
Their hard work and dedication is reflected in the significant increase in our operating margin compared to the fourth quarter on a relatively stable revenue base driving incremental earnings to the bottom line.
We are currently generating record operating profit and margins.
The rate of margin expansion over the last year has been significant and we will continue to focus our resources on enhancing our profitability.
Ultimately we are most focused on delivering quality earnings growth to the company through sustained volume increases.
Our strong order backlog comprised of a favorable product mix positions us to realize further benefits from extended production runs.
North American railcar industry orders in the first quarter were very strong and reflected a healthy mix of freight car orders.
During the first quarter TrinityRail received orders for 9 625 new railcars including 10 cars and covered hoppers from railroads third-party lessors and industrial shippers.
Our backlog increased to a record 42 630 railcars with a record value of approximately $5.2 billion.
Current inquiry levels reflect continuing demand for covered hoppers to serve the oil and gas drilling and construction markets agricultural products and petrochemical such as resins.
Auto racks continue to be in steady demand resulting from increased North American automotive production and replacement of the aging North American auto rack fleet.
While overall tank car orders for the industry have slowed in recent quarters order inquiry levels remained strong and we are in dialogue with a number of customers ready to place orders.
Our customers like us are assessing the potential impacts from pending regulatory changes and as you would expect delaying decisions to obtain railcars given the uncertainty surrounding specifications for tank cars carrying flammable products.
We believe this is only a temporary delay and we expect to see strong demand for tank cars serving the oil and gas industries once new regulations are finalized.
We are monitoring closely the potential regulatory actions of PHMSA the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Transport Canada with respect to changes in railcar designs for tank cars carrying flammable commodities.
PHMSA recently proposed an accelerated timeline that we expect to lead to a final rule shortly after September 30 2014.
Transport Canada also recently took several initiatives which will have effect on tank cars used to transport certain flammable products in Canada.
As we gain further clarity from the regulatory process we will provide an update on how we plan to address regulatory changes.
We are currently investing capital in our rail business for organic growth opportunities operating improvements and to be prepared to respond to demand increases associated with new tank car regulation.
Our intent is to enhance our operational flexibility by having additional manufacturing capacity capable of producing multiple products that will be ready to respond as the level of demand increases.
We are in the process of bringing online a large existing railcar manufacturing plant located in Georgia.
Initially we are planning to produce a group of tank cars at that plant intended for our leasing business.
In addition we are also taking steps to expand our maintenance services capacity to meet the maintenance and regulatory requirements of our growing lease fleet and key customers.
As we make these investments there will be associated startup costs that are incurred by the Rail Group having a near-term adverse impact on Rail Group operating margins.
Our team has demonstrated great skill at bringing on new operations and additional capacity and I am optimistic we will continue to be successful.
As a result of the orders received in the first quarter and capacity increases we have increased our 2014 unit delivery guidance to be in the range of 27 500 to 29 000 an increase from our previous guidance of 25 500 to 27 500.
Our operational flexibility and strong lease origination capability differentiate TrinityRail and enable us to respond quickly to changes in market demand.
Our current delivery forecast for 2014 is on pace to exceed our prior annual record delivery level.
This is a very exciting time for TrinityRail as we continue to see a broadening in railcar demand as the economic recovery accelerates developing fleet replacement opportunities and ongoing strong demand catalysts from the North American energy renaissance.
I will now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced record results for the first quarter of 2014.
For the quarter we reported record revenue of $1.5 billion and record earnings per share of $2.85 compared to our first quarter guidance of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
Included in our results and in first quarter guidance were proceeds from the sale of $514 million of new and existing leased railcars to Element completed under the strategic alliance that we announced in December with an EPS impact of $1.43.
Our first quarter earnings without the profit from sales to Element represent a quarterly record for Trinity.
All of our business units contributed to our strong quarterly results with each group reporting year-over-year improvement in quarterly operating profit and margin.
Our tax rate for the first quarter was 32.5% lower than our guidance of 35% to 36% primarily due to the benefits of certain domestic manufacturing deductions lower state taxes and the partnership tax status of our noncontrolling interest.
The lower tax rate accounted for $0.13 of incremental EPS during the first quarter as compared to our guidance.
Our current earnings guidance assumes a tax rate of 34% for the remaining 3 quarters of 2014.
As we mentioned on our last call the company's convertible notes will have a dilutive impact on EPS when the average stock price for the quarter exceeds the conversion price of the notes.
During the first quarter the average stock price was $64.08 which was well above the conversion price in effect of $50.69.
As a result 1.9 million additional shares were added to our share count in the calculation of EPS for the first quarter reducing EPS by $0.06 per share.
For the remainder of the year our guidance assumes a $72.50 stock price our recent level resulting in an annual average stock price of $70.40 and 2.5 million additional shares in the calculation of annual EPS an impact of $0.24 per share.
Including the assumed impact of the convertible notes our annual EPS guidance needed a full year weighted average share count of approximately 78 million shares.
During the first quarter we repurchased 138 000 shares of our common stock in the open market for a total cost of $10 million.
This leaves $240 million available through 2015 for additional stock purchases under our recently reauthorized share repurchase program.
Consistent with our program agreement with Element Financial we expect to substantially complete the first $1 billion of leased railcar sales to Element during the remainder of 2014 primarily from our current leasing backlog.
Since we announced the agreement in December Element has purchased $619 million of railcars from Trinity.
The earnings related to Element in our 2014 guidance remains substantially unchanged.
Under the terms of the program agreement Element is expected to acquire another $1 billion of leased railcars during 2015.
Given our strong financial position the solid backlog of orders in our major businesses and a solid leasing operations platform we continue to seek organic and external investment opportunities.
During the first quarter we invested $118 million in 3 previously announced acquisitions within our Energy Equipment Group and we have a healthy pipeline of acquisition opportunities across the various industries that we are currently assessing.
I will now turn to our current outlook for the year 2014.
Our current guidance for 2014 EPS is between $7 and $7.50 compared to our previous full year EPS guidance of between $6.30 and $7.
The increase in guidance incorporates the strong performance in the first quarter as well as higher expected results for the remainder of the year due to orders we have received that fill in many of our production lines.
In the Rail Group our 2014 revenue guidance is between $3.4 billion and $3.6 billion based on our increased railcar delivery guidance.
We expect a full year operating margin of between 17.5% and 19% for the Rail Group.
In the Inland Barge Group we now expect full year revenue of between $605 million and $625 million in 2014 with an operating margin of between 15.5% and 17% for the year representing a significant improvement in guidance.
The orders we have received in the last few months along with better production efficiencies we are experiencing have improved our 2014 outlook for this group.
In the Energy Equipment Group our 2014 revenue guidance is between $880 million and $910 million.
We expect the range of operating margin for the year to be between 11% and 12%.
The year-over-year improvement in both revenue and operating profit reflects the improved performance of our wind towers business strong demand for storage containers and the inclusion of results from the recent acquisitions made in this group.
In the Consortium Products Group we expect full year revenue of between $540 million and $565 million in 2014 with an operating margin of between 12.5% and 14%.
In the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group we expect 2014 operating revenue of between $595 million and $625 million and operating profit of between $260 million and $280 million.
We expect to deduct between $27 million and $35 million of noncontrolling earnings in 2014 due to our ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013.
As we have indicated on previous earnings calls TRIP and RIV 2013's partnership tax status results in no taxes applied to the amount of noncontrolling earnings deducted from Trinity's income statement.
In addition to the guidance I just provided for the Leasing Group we expect additional sales of railcars from our lease fleet during the remainder of the year of between $160 million and $175 million generating operating profit of between $30 million and $35 million.
We expect the majority of these additional car sales to be recognized as revenue in the Leasing Group.
For 2014 we expect to eliminate between $825 million and $875 million of revenue and defer between $140 million and $150 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to the wholly- and partially-owned lease fleets.
This guidance range also includes Rail Group sales to the Leasing Group that are ultimately filled to Element.
For 2014 we do not expect the net investment in new railcars to consume any cash due to expected proceeds received from leased railcar sales during the year.
We expect between $275 million and $300 million of revenue eliminations for other intercompany transactions.
To date approximately $700 million of leased railcars have been filled to RIV 2013.
The railcar investment partnership formed last May in which Trinity holds a 31% ownership interest.
During the second quarter we expect to complete the final scheduled sale of a group of leased railcars that consumes the remaining equity commitment from the TRIP and RIV 2013 investors.
TRIP will purchase the railcars rather than RIV 2013.
As a reminder the 2 entities have the same investors and for capital structuring benefits the investors prefer the purchase of this final set of railcars to be made by TRIP.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2014 are expected to be between $250 million and $300 million.
In addition corporate expenses are expected to range from $95 million to $100 million for the year as a result of our ongoing business operations and acquisitions.
As a reminder we are required to report EPS using the 2-plus method of accounting the result of which should be the reduction of EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.25 per share for the full year 2014 compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
This is included in our EPS guidance as well.
Our full year guidance range reflects earnings per share growth of 47% to 58% compared to 2013 and would result in the achievement of a new level of record annual earnings for Trinity.
We remain very pleased with the focused dedication of all our employees who are working hard to deliver high-quality earnings and growth during 2014.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Allison Poliniak of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> James you threw out a lot of numbers.
Can you walk me through so I understand Element the second sort of $500 million tranche this year.
Is that already in backlog? And I think you mentioned something about the leased backlog.
I know some of that gets eliminated but I know Element's not.
Can you kind of walk how I should be thinking about that? Yes.
Let me give you a couple of pieces Allison.
First of all there's not necessarily $500 million that were scheduled this year.
We said we'll complete the first $1 billion.
To date we've done $619 million so you've got about $380 million left in that $1 billion and timing will vary quarter to quarter in that of course.
Some of those cars may come directly from our Rail Group so they'll just be sales within the Rail Group.
Some may be existing cars within the lease fleet.
There may be cars that move into the lease fleet during the year and are then sold to Element so they'll be eliminated and then reflected as car sales.
We'll provide that geography as the year goes on but all of those sales whether they're in the Rail Group or in the Leasing Group are included in the guidance for the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
That's helpful.
And then just turning to the announcement coming out of Canada about 1 week ago any thoughts there? I mean the timeline seems much more aggressive than what the RSI was proposing.
Thoughts on how real that number could be.
Is there still sort of a comment period on that side? Steve you want to take that? Yes sure.
Allison yes we're obviously following this very closely.
We're familiar with Transport Canada's actions earlier.
And I think we expect that over time the U.S.
and Canadian standards will be synchronized.
That's always been the historical pattern.
And certainly as we gain further clarity we'll provide an update on how we plan to address any regulatory changes.
I think due to the fact that PHMSA came out with a more accelerated regulatory process to culminate at the end of September was certainly trying to accelerate and respond to Transport Canada's actions as well.
So yes we'll continue to follow up and provide updates as we become more clear on what the alternatives are.
And our next question comes from Eric Crawford of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll start with rail.
Is there 2014 capacity left that isn't already spoken for? And I guess the real question is how much upside risk is there to the deliveries guidance that you gave today? Steve? Yes sure.
Eric as I mentioned we've seen productivity increases in our existing facilities that have yielded some additional capacity.
And we have filled orders in some of our open production slots with the freight car orders that we received during the quarter and I mentioned a new plant that we're expanding that will also be contributing to railcars to be delivered.
So we've given a range of 27 500 to 29 000 cars to be delivered yet this year and we're certainly confident within that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
On covered hoppers can you speak a bit more as to what you're seeing in the markets there? I mean you touched on the main buckets and as a whole orders have been improving but there has been some I guess inherent lumpiness from quarter to quarter with respect to where the demand is coming from.
So I was hoping maybe you could touch on the 3 buckets from an inquiries level and where you see demand headed.
Yes.
I guess Eric when I think about demand in the railcar area if you look back over an extended period of time there's always been 1 or 2 car types that are driving the market.
So the fact that tank cars are taking a little bit of a respite and so there's regulatory clarity and that covered hoppers are filling the void that's not unusual.
So I think what we're most encouraged by is the first quarter orders reflected really a broadening of demand.
We saw strong demand for small cube covered hopper cars for both frac sand and the construction markets.
We see the agricultural market again looking for equipment.
Automotive remains strong.
And while I don't expect to be building any new coal cars we've actually seen improved demand in the coal sector which has been supporting stronger lease rates and lease trends there so.
Research Division</strong> Okay great absolutely.
No great to see and nice to see demand coming back on the dry side of barge too.
On construction lastly for me and I'll pass it on but on construction any preliminary thoughts on the GROW AMERICA Act and how that might impact you guys? Yes Eric.
This is Bill.
Now we're closely monitoring the legislative situation as you might well guess.
We're certainly concerned that it's a punt and we end up back in a situation where we're just doing temporary extensions as we go forward.
But we continue to watch it and we remain ready.
Should demand increase we certainly have the capacity to take care of that demand and our customers.
And our next question comes from Bascome Majors of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I know there's a lot of noise in the current quarter and the year as a whole given your partnerships with RIV and Element but beyond that -- and the RevPAR backlog is very strong at record levels and your visibility into future revenues and your larger segment accordingly is reaching all-time highs in the quarter.
And can you talk a little bit a very high level about your expectations for core demand into 2015 in your key markets both in railcar and your other businesses? I mean just stripping all the noise away where do you see some opportunities for incremental organic growth into next year beyond the strong conditions you're already seeing today? Well Steve you want to give him your perspective on say the rail and then maybe Bill yours on wind and barge? Sure.
So Bascome this is Steve.
Certainly on the rail side we do have a strong backlog going into 2015 and it's across the widest breadth of our product lines.
We certainly have certain production lines that are not built out for 2015 but what I like is the continuing demand trends.
I think freight car demand trends are going to remain solid.
And again I think once we get over this regulatory pause then we're going to see strong demand for tank cars going into 2015.
So I'm very encouraged by what we see and we've developed our production flexibility so that if there's additional demand to meet we can do that.
Or if we have to flex down we can do that as well.
So I like our positioning for '15 and I like the demand characteristics going into the new year.
Yes Bascome on the barge side I think Trinity really had a great experience in the first quarter of 2014 where we used one of our facilities to convert from tank to hopper back to tank.
And the guys just did a fantastic job really proving out kind of the multipurpose capabilities of our facilities.
And so as we look forward into '15 we continue to see opportunity on the tank barge side.
I think the dry side will be a little more opportunistic although recent numbers on the fleet profile suggest that scrapping continues at a higher rate than buying so the fleet continues to get compressed which should create some demand.
So overall I'm encouraged for '15 on the barge side.
And just quickly slipping into the wind tower side we've got a really nice backlog in the wind tower business continue to have kind of strong inquiries in that business and I like the way the guys are producing their products right now.
And I think we've got good opportunity in '15 on wind tower.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just one more on the acquisition front.
I mean you talked a little bit at a high level about it and you've certainly outlined your strategy as that's become more important over the last 6 months.
But as we get to the point where the cash balance is rising pretty substantially is it -- during the quarter can you help us a little bit on sizing up the magnitude of the pipeline and the amount of capital you're willing to deploy towards deals over the next few quarters or even 2 years and the pace at which you would like -- or think you can start to deploy that? Yes it's Tim.
As far as the balance sheet goes it definitely provides us a great foundation to be able to think small medium and large as well so we can look at businesses across all those sectors.
First off it's important to remind you that when we look at businesses we take in consideration our corporate business model that generates value by leveraging the strengths of our businesses within our portfolio.
A lot of our businesses they receive and they share and they generate value through various interactions with each other.
So when we're looking for external opportunities we look for those that will enhance our position of each of our product lines that we have or businesses that are adjacent to our businesses.
And so when you see -- you look at the 3 acquisitions that we made in earlier this year these companies all have a great role in our company in the way that they play off of the competencies that we have and they fit real well.
We look to companies that have a heavy manufacturing of steel content.
In fact we like heavy manufacturing as opposed to the lighter manufacturing.
We look at businesses that need competencies that we have to offer or we can gain some advantages through some of the supply agreements that we have in the steel area.
Right now our pipeline as James said in his summary is fairly robust and full.
And so we have an active group which I'm included of looking at various businesses.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does your full year outlook assume anything on the acquisition front beyond what you've announced in the first quarter? Nothing that we would talk about Bascome.
We've got certain things included in our forecast that we don't detail but we wouldn't mention anything at this time.
Our next question comes from Justin Long of Stephens Research.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you gave the number of DOT-111 tank cars and flammable service in your wholly-owned and partially-owned lease fleets and I wanted to ask a couple of questions on that.
First did that number change materially with the sales to Element in the first quarter? And second is there a way to break down how many of these tank cars are in your wholly-owned fleet versus the JVs? Yes.
Thanks Justin for your question.
At the end of the first quarter our DOT-111 cars and flammable service both included in our wholly-owned and partially-owned fleets was approximately 11 300.
So that would compare to the number we had given to you previously.
I think we disclosed 12 200 in our February call.
And at this time we're not prepared to break out in any further detail the ownership of that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And is there any way you could give any detail on how many of those cars are touching Canada and could be subject to the 3-year retrofit or phaseout that they've discussed? Sure I can give you a little more detail on that.
As far as the A515 tank cars as I referred to in the duration that was given by Transport Canada we have approximately 17 of those cars in flammable service of which 12 have been in Canada recently.
And so we're working with our customers there to transition those cars.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's really small.
That's helpful detail.
My next question I was wondering if you could comment on the new railcar pricing environment for both tank and nontank.
We heard from another OEM that they've actually been turning down some orders based on price.
Did you experience that in the first quarter as well? Well I'm not sure about the question.
We were very pleased with the orders that we took in the first quarter.
Our industry continues to be competitive but I think we're also really continuing to target orders that meet our return requirements and allow us to extend our production runs.
And I would say that all the orders we took in the first quarter or virtually all the orders we took in the first quarter supported that strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one last one for me.
I know you're not building marine barges today but it sounds like this is a market that's heating up.
I was wondering if there's any possibility for you to adjust some of your existing facilities in Inland Barge to build some of the smaller marine barges.
Yes Justin this is Bill.
As far as the -- what you're calling marine I guess oceangoing barges we have the ability to build to the smaller side of oceangoing barges but not to the larger side of oceangoing.
We'd have to have a new facility with much bigger docks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what kind of capacity would you classify the smaller marine barge just from a barrel standpoint? Kind of at the 50 000 and less maybe a little bigger.
It depends on the design of the barge.
And our next question comes from Matt Brooklier of Longbow Research.
So just a question on -- the deliveries in first quarter saw a sequential decline.
Just curious to hear if that was just a function of mix or maybe there was some weather or other hindrances in the quarter.
No Matt.
There's -- I would say it was mix.
And again I was very pleased with our production deliveries and I thought they met our expectations.
Okay.
And then you talked about the Georgia facility where you're going to be producing incremental tank cars.
Is that a new facility or that's an existing facility where you're adding production lines? Well Matt we actually have several facilities in Georgia and have been producing railcar components at one of those facilities.
This is a facility we've owned for a number of years that we're reopening and we'll be bringing that up to production scale on a very gradual basis.
Got you.
And then do you have a sense for when that facility is online producing? Is that more a second half '14 event or is that something that could be more near term? And then maybe provide a little bit of color in terms of the incremental investment needed to get that facility up.
Matt I'm really confident in our team's ability to bring that plan up to speed.
I'd prefer not to give specific deliveries for competitive reasons but the cars that we would expect to see from that facility this year are incorporated into our projections of 27 500 to 29 000 for the year.
Okay.
And can you talk to the incremental investment needed on that facility and kind of the timing of those investments? I'm not prepared to share that.
Actually I'd say it's not really material and it's got really quick -- usually has really quick payback.
Our internal investments that we've made to increase our capacity has given us tremendous returns.
Okay.
And then for your '14 guide can you give a little bit of color in terms of expectations for the lease fleet? What's potentially the size of the lease fleet from a unit perspective by the end of the year? Yes this is James Matt.
It's hard to get real precise there.
We're going to continue to have sales of cars to Element.
We'll continue to add to the fleet.
Our leasing backlog is a little over 20% of our total backlog but we're not prepared to get real precise on where that's going to end up given the timing of some of those transactions.
And our next question comes from Sal Vitale of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So first question just a segue on the Georgia facility.
Can you give a sense for once the incremental capacity is added I mean what do you -- in terms of numbers I mean do you think that's a few thousand in terms of additional tank capacity? Sal thanks for your question.
We really don't provide individual plant capacities and run rates.
It's all reflected in our projections for production deliveries for the year and I think we'll stay with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
Just in terms of the opportunity for replacement of the DOT-111s there are varying estimates.
How do you consider the universe of cars that could potentially be replaced? So do you just look at say the current DOT -- well I should say the prepetition DOT-111s that are carrying say crude and ethanol which is about in the mid 50 000s let's call it 56 000? Or do you look at the entire universe of the DOT-111s that are carrying hazardous materials which is more like between 150 000 and 160 000? Well if I understand your question Sal I think the regulatory process is particularly focused on railcars operating in flammable service so that's where our focus has been and I think the numbers that the RSI last had in late September were about 85 000 of those cars.
So we've told how many numbers that we have in our fleet and we're certainly focused on transitioning those cars and modifying them if that's what the appropriate action is if the economics support that and the regulations support that.
And where it doesn't we feel pretty confident there's going to be a replacement demand for cars that meet any new specifications or regulations.
The investments that we're making that I talked about earlier I think give us the flexibility to respond to both increased demand for new railcars and to be able to support modifications and regulatory compliance with our own fleet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the numbers you mentioned earlier you said there are currently 11 300.
Those are I guess the DOT-111s in your lease fleet.
And that compares to say 12 200 a quarter ago.
I remember a figure you mentioned a quarter ago of 9 600.
Those are the bad faith cars.
What is that level? What -- how many bad faith cars are in your fleet now? Yes I don't -- we don't have anything in our fleet that's bad faith.
We have good faith cars but we haven't broken out the 11 300 into different categories.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
So then the other question is just to get a clarification on your guidance.
You had said the additional sales of cars in the lease fleet of 160 to 175 and profit on that of $30 million to $35 million.
Is the 160 to 175 are those above and beyond the sales to ESN and to Element or is that inclusive? No it's simply above and beyond what we did in the first quarter so that would include the sales that we have scheduled to Element for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 160 to 175 that's assumed to be sales of cars that you've held for less than 1 year which you recognize as revenue correct? The majority of those would be.
And our next question comes from Tom Albrecht of BBT.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all of the numbers and everything but sometimes I get lost so I want to clarify a couple of things.
So I don't know if it was Steve or James you talked about there could be some margin issues for the rest of the year in the Rail Group.
Was that primarily because of the opening of the Georgia plant and the start-up cost or is it because as the production mix becomes maybe a little bit less tank the margins would naturally maybe not stay at that 19.5% level? Well I think we've given guidance of 17.5% to 19% and that was consistent with the first quarter.
We've raised our revenue guidance so the overall profit dollars are significantly higher with the new guidance.
Steve did mention a little bit of headwind as we go through some expansions-type things.
Mix will always change throughout the year.
So again the margin guidance hasn't changed much but the dollars have moved up quite a bit on the new delivery guidance that Steve provided.
And just to add to James' point.
In addition to start-up costs for our Georgia facility we're also making investments in our maintenance services which had some adverse costs associated with that that impacts margins in the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> So those 2 factors Georgia and the investment in the maintenance services would be the bigger headwind if you want to use that term as opposed to changing mix on the production? Yes I think mix has probably a better impact on the rest of the year and that's what we had forecasted before.
Again our margin guidance hasn't changed.
As we go through the year and see which cars are coming through our production facilities I think mix is probably the bigger piece but we're not prepared to break out in a lot of detail the distinction between the pieces.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of a second quarter production I know your production was off in the December quarter but you had actually guided to that -- no I think someone may have forgotten about that.
But should we be thinking about -- I know what you've given for the full year but in terms of just kind of an immediate ramp-up kind of more of the same around 7 000 for the second quarter? Yes.
I think Tom we've given the annual guidance and we'll stay with that.
I really don't want to have to be going quarter to quarter on guiding deliveries and -- but again I think we're confident in the range we've provided for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then James you gave a number of $619 million that you've done with Element so far.
Is that inclusive of April? Because the press release talks about $514 million.
No that's from December when we initiated the agreement with Element through the end of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wasn't sure which extra month it included.
Yes that was the original $105 million we did in December plus the little over $514 million we did in the first quarter Tom.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on your guidance there were a couple of things I missed.
Revenue eliminations were $800 million to something.
Was it $800 million to $850 million? $825 million to $875 million during the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then other revenue eliminations were $270 million to something? $275 million to $300 million and that's the nonleasing-related eliminations we have.
And as a reminder Tom we'll file these remarks very shortly after the call so you'll have all the numbers.
We're happy to walk you through them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just one last question.
I mean you had tremendous incremental margins from the December quarter into the March quarter even though you delivered about 390 fewer cars.
Just in your opinion what was the biggest influence on either the incremental margin being over 500% or the fact that the absolute margin rose 110 basis points? This is James Tom.
I think as you look at good pricing on the cars that we produce we continue to see that as they've come through the backlog.
I think the employees at the plants are doing a great job with getting their manufacturing efficiencies through the operational flexibility we have.
We've really seen the margin increase quarter-over-quarter.
And again as we said we project a very good margin the rest of the year for the same reasons.
And our next question comes from Kristine Kubacki of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask a little bit bigger question going back to the regulation side.
On PHMSA it seems like they've laid out here recently a wish list in the car design coinciding with what AAR was proposing on the shelf thickness full-height head shields thermal protection and jacking.
I guess can you give us some thoughts that if that comes to fruition how this would impact the backlog the backlog that's already there? Am I wrong to think about given that we're finally going to get some design certainty that we would see an increase in the existing backlog pricing as we incorporate those design changes and the new car pricing obviously will be going up in the future on those tanks going into crude methanol? Thanks Kristine.
Steve.
You asked a lot of questions in there.
And certainly I think a possible outcome of regulatory change is increased demand for tank cars new tank cars to be built.
And as we continue to have strong backlogs and new tank cars that raises -- it gives us greater ability to raise prices.
As new tank car prices rise it also gives us the ability to raise existing car lease rates as well.
So I think all those are positive in the long term but certainly a lot of details to figure out on what comes through in regulations and investment returns and lease rates and how the market is going to accept those lease rates and investments and modified cars.
So there's just a lot to deal with and we have to really sit down and understand what the final regulations are to be able to develop our plans.
And we'll certainly share those with you when that becomes available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I would assume then if you had a say a CPC-1232 in the backlog and it was going for crude service that with those design changes then probably you would be able to incorporate any new design that they start to mandate and that pricing would be incorporated? I'm not sure.
We'll take a look at things when they become more clear.
But that's highly speculative and it's difficult to respond.
Our next question comes from Bill Baldwin of Baldwin Anthony.
Inc.</strong> Two questions.
I guess first Steve with the uncertainty regarding the regulations are you seeing any of your customers that have backlog defer in delivery saying "Let's wait and see what happens here before we take delivery of our tank cars"? I think I mentioned in my comments Bill that like us people want to make good investment decisions and understand clearly what equipment to invest in and that's pretty hard to do in this regulatory uncertainty.
I think we're going to have some clarity here towards the end of the summer.
And we're certainly going to work with our customers to assist them in being able to build the right cars for their fleet and lease the right cars for their business.
And we're just going to have to be flexible working with our customers to make that happen.
But I think that adds some flexibility.
Inc.</strong> Exactly.
Yes just a -- kind of an unusual environment really at this point with all this going on like it is.
And many different people involved too.
So many different organizations.
Well that's right.
And I wouldn't want to be in this position for a long time.
But again I think by the end of the summer we'll start to have some clarity as outlined in PHMSA's schedule.
Inc.</strong> Yes yes.
I hope the regulatory people understand the importance of keeping this process moving.
Secondly Bill acquisition of these cryogenic companies cryogenic tank manufacturing.
Can you give some color as to the markets that you think these tanks will basically be serving to the markets they'll be going into over the next several years? Sure Bill.
So we really think about cryogenics in a couple of buckets just kind of atmospheric gases but then LNG.
And so as we look at the markets broadly for LNG a lot of expansion particularly in the transport side.
And that can be traditional transport trailers but it can also be ISO trailers serious movement of LNG into the infrastructure to fuel motor vehicles the potential for fueling locomotives and certainly the potential for fueling tows for barge lines.
So we see a lot of opportunity across Trinity's broad spectrum of products and acquiring that technology to complement what we already had in Mexico really kind of the anchor for what we think could be really nice growth.
Inc.</strong> And kind of in I guess that same vein a little different product category but can you talk to us about what Trinity is doing if anything really in the compressed natural gas storage markets? And how you see those markets unfolding? Yes Bill.
We do a little bit of work in the compressed side.
We have done some prototyping in the compressed side but typically right now we're a little more focused on the liquid side.
But we certainly have the capabilities to participate in the compressed side.
Bill this is Tim.
We also manufacture the heads that are used in the -- to build the spheres in the CNG business and that is a competency that is easily leveraged into that business because if you're building those vessels steel I think is 2.5 to 3 inches thick and there's not that many people that have the capability of making the heads that go on those vessels.
So we're serving that market right now.
Inc.</strong> Yes as I recall that's why you got in the tank car business years ago.
Well most of our businesses have evolved.
It's just businesses that are adjacent to our core businesses and then they grow from there.
That -- it's very fascinating for us and very exciting for us.
Inc.</strong> It is.
How do you see the compressed natural gas markets evolving? I mean is it really very fuzzy right now or is there some clarity about what might be going on there? Well I think you've got compressed natural gas currently being used by a lot of the large commercial companies that have local vehicles that will be using them like school buses and other buses and delivery vehicles and things like that.
And the compressed natural gas industry is trying to spread that out to where the longer-haul trucks and -- would either go LNG or compressed natural gas in that particular area.
But then they've got to put in the infrastructure and there's a lot of capital being raised to put in infrastructure in these areas.
Okay.
It looks like we have no more questions.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on May 7 2014.
The access number is (402) 220-0118.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
And this concludes your teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
Before we get started let me remind you that today’s conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Keith.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries' Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are: Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Group; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with our financial results for the second quarter.
Our businesses continue to do an outstanding job of driving operating leverage and efficiencies to the bottom line.
We're also continuing to make great progress in the business development area.
In late June we announced an agreement to purchase assets of Meyer Steel Structures from Thomas &amp; Betts Corporation.
This transaction demonstrates our commitment to strengthening our portfolio of diversified industrial companies.
Our Rail Group generated strong financial results in the second quarter and increased its order backlog to a new record level.
Our rail businesses continue to make investments that expand our operating flexibility and capacity to respond to various market conditions.
Our Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group delivered another quarter of solid operating results.
In addition this group continued to execute railcar transactions that enhanced profitability and generated cash.
I'm pleased with our Inland Barge Group's financial performance during the second quarter.
The profitability of our Construction Products Group improved during the second quarter compared to the same period last year.
Our Energy Equipment Group continues to show improved financial performance.
I'm pleased with the progress we're making in integrating the 3 businesses we acquired in the first quarter.
We're optimistic about the long-term opportunities for growth in the cryogenic industry.
Trinity remains uniquely positioned to provide a variety of transportation and storage products to the oil gas and chemicals industries.
We complete -- once we complete our acquisition of Meyer Trinity's utility structure business will be positioned as a leader in this industry.
We're continuing to review acquisition opportunities in the energy and infrastructure markets and have products -- that have products services technology and competencies that will enrich our portfolio of industrial manufacturing businesses.
Trinity's financial performance during the second quarter along with our pending acquisition of Meyer represents additional progress toward attaining our corporate vision of being a premier diversified industrial company.
Over the short-term our goals are to continue operating our company on lean principles while providing superior products and services to our customers.
We are focused on creating shareholder value through a variety of organic improvement and growth initiatives as well as identifying manufacturing acquisition opportunities.
We expect to continue to conduct Railcar Leasing and other asset transactions that provide earnings and generate cash.
Trinity's future remains bright.
Our financial health is strong and we have a great deal of positive momentum occurring within our company.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with the recently announced agreement to purchase the assets of Meyer Steel Structures which is proceeding through the regulatory review process and is expected to close in the third quarter pending approval.
The acquisition of Meyer provides Trinity a market-leading position in the North American utility steel structures market.
Meyer's strong engineering reputation manufacturing capabilities and products with high steel content align well with Trinity's existing competencies and offer enrichment opportunities to create additional value.
We are optimistic about the long-term outlook with infrastructure investment in North America for electricity transmission and distribution.
Reliability concerns increasing need for renewable energy interconnections congestion and government oversight are all-important long-term demand drivers.
Over the next decade we also expect Mexico will continue to develop and expand its infrastructure.
Combining Meyer with Trinity's existing capabilities positions us well to serve this market.
During the second quarter the Energy Equipment Group set another record for quarterly revenue and increased its operating profit by 98% over the second quarter last year.
Revenues and profits increased primarily due to higher shipments of storage containers serving the energy sector as well as higher deliveries and improved operational performance in our wind tower business.
During the quarter we received $213 million in wind tower orders resulting in a backlog of $611 million at the end of the quarter.
Our production visibility in wind tower business now extends into 2016.
I am pleased with the progress we are making integrating our recently acquired companies within this group.
We continue to invest resources to identify and pursue opportunities to add new businesses to our industrial portfolio and expand our reach in the markets we are pursuing enhance our competencies and complement our product offerings.
Moving to our Construction Products Group.
Revenue was relatively flat as compared to the same quarter last year.
A more favorable product mix drove an increase in operating margin to 13.1% during the second quarter after excluding a $2.6 million gain reported this year resulting from the early retirement of certain acquisition related liabilities.
This compares favorably with a margin of 12.3% in last year's second quarter.
I am pleased with the companies -- with the performance of this group considering conditions in the highway business remain challenging due to uncertainty regarding the upcoming expiration of the Federal Highway Bill.
We continue to see strong demand in the Texas construction market which is a good indicator of overall demand for our Aggregates business.
We also increased our U.S.
galvanizing capacity and geographic reach during this quarter with a small acquisition of an additional facility in West Texas.
We are currently defending the company in the False Claims Act complaint related to our Highway Products business.
The trial began on July 14 and ended in a mistrial on July 19 of this year.
The company intends to vigorously defend itself against the allegations.
Our second quarter 10-Q which will be filed this morning will provide more information on this matter.
Moving to our Inland Barge Group.
During the second quarter the Inland Barge Group reported a 48% year-over-year increase in operating profit primarily resulting from a change in product mix.
We received orders totaling approximately $124 million in the quarter resulting in a backlog of $467 million at the end of the quarter.
Our production visibility in this business stretches into 2015.
We are optimistic that inquiries for hopper barges will increase as stronger exports of corn wheat and soybeans as well as replenishment of coal stock piles for the summer cooling season are expected to increase barge traffic along the inland water ways.
The outlook for the fall harvest is also very good.
Demand drivers for tank barges continue to be favorable with backlogs in the industry stretching into 2015.
Barge operators have absorbed a significant amount of new equipment in their fleet while maintaining high utilization levels.
As infrastructure investments in the energy sector are completed we expect additional expansion in downstream markets resulting in rising shipments with chemical and petrochemical commodities.
We expect a need for additional barge equipment to increase as a result.
I am pleased with our barge group's ability to respond to various demand drivers and generate efficiencies within the plants.
This group's operational flexibility is a key differentiator enabling us to enhance profitability and respond to our customers' needs.
At this time I will turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
I'm very pleased with the strong momentum in Rail and Leasing Groups.
Our focus and execution continued to enhance Trinity rail's position as a premier provider of railcar products and services and are responsible for our record financial performance during the second quarter.
This is a very exciting time for TrinityRail.
Railcar demand is broadening fleet replacement opportunities are beginning to materialize and demand catalysts from the North American energy renaissance remains strong.
Our business is growing and our integrated manufacturing and leasing platforms are responding effectively to increasing railcar demand.
North American industry railcar orders in the quarter were very strong and reflected a particularly healthy mix of freight car orders.
The 33 900 rail cars ordered during the second quarter drove the industry backlog to its highest level in the last 25 years.
The current backlog approximates 100 000 rail cars representing approximately 6 quarters of industry production of current rates.
During the second quarter TrinityRail received orders for 9 880 new rail cars including tank cars covered hoppers and auto racks with orders received from railroads third-party lessors and industrial shippers.
Our orders during the quarter aligned very well with our production plans.
Our backlog increased to 45 350 rail cars with a record value of approximately $5.5 billion.
Order inquiry levels continue to be steady thus far in the third quarter and reflect continuing demand for a wide variety of freight cars.
Order inquiries for tank cars remain steady with some order activity for tank cars for flammable commodity service is on hold pending new regulatory standards.
However with extended production backlogs some customers are beginning to place orders with us recognizing that with our production flexibility we're able to amend our tank car buildings specifications to the most current regulatory standards at the time of production.
We continue to closely monitor the regulatory actions of PHMSA the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Transport Canada with respect to changes in railcar designs for tank cars and flammable service.
And as you may be aware over last few weeks with the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Transport Canada took meaningful steps within their respective regulatory review processes toward making changes impacting the transportation of crude oil ethanol and other flammable products.
While we are gaining additional insights into the direction of new regulations there is still a great deal of uncertainty and the regulatory process -- regulatory processes still have much further to go before final rules are issued.
We continue to study both regulator's actions directions and comments and we will continue to be engaged in the industry's dialogue.
In anticipation of the new regulations we are making preparations to build to newly developed tank car specifications as well as to potentially modify existing tank cars and flammable service.
TrinityRail is a leader in railcar design railcar production and customer service.
Our team will be well prepared to manage the eventual regulatory outcome and help ensure that our customers railcar fleets as well as our own lease fleet comply with industry safety standards.
We're actively investing capital in our rail business in response to growth opportunities as we expect demand to increase as a result of the new tank car regulations and continued favorable industry fundamentals across all railcar types.
I am pleased with the progress we are making to incorporate our flexible manufacturing asset base into our Georgia facility positioning it to be a multiproduct railcar production facility.
In addition we are making other investments in our production facilities to enhance our operating flexibility.
During the quarter we also continue to invest in our maintenance services business by acquiring a facility in Arkansas.
We expect this facility will be in operation by year end and be well positioned to support market reaction to revise tank car regulations and we are expanding capacity at our other 4 maintenance service facilities to enhance our ability to support increased tank car maintenance requirements and potential modifications of our lease fleet and the fleets of key industrial shippers.
Our Rail Group produced our sixth consecutive record quarter of operating profit.
I'm very pleased with our improvement in operating margins although we anticipate some margin headwinds in the second half of the year due to product mix changes and startup costs from our investments in manufacturing and maintenance services facilities.
Our record $5.5 billion order backlog comprised of a broad product mix with increasingly better pricing across most railcar types positions us to realize benefits from extended production runs into 2015 and 2016.
During the second quarter the Rail Group delivers 7 160 rail cars bringing our year-to-date total to just over 14 000.
As a result of the orders received in the quarter and further production increases our 2014 unit deliveries are now expected to be in the range of 28 500 to 29 500 an increase from our previous guidance range of 27 500 to 29 000.
This range of deliveries represent a new record level of production.
During the second quarter our Leasing Group took delivery of approximately 1 280 new rail cars.
Our total lease fleet portfolio including partially owned subsidiaries now stands at approximately 73 760 rail cars.
At the end of the quarter 20% of the units in our railcar order backlog with a total value of $1.1 billion were committed to customers of our leasing business.
During the second quarter our Leasing Group earned a record operating profit from operations due to strong market fundamentals and new additions to our wholly-owned lease fleet.
Fewer existing idle rail cars extended production backlogs for both tank and freight cars and rising railcar prices are driving strong lease renewal rate increases across most railcar types.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the second quarter was 99.7% up from 98.7% last year.
I'm very pleased with our sustained high level of fleet utilization and a strong renewal rate increases our team continues to achieve each quarter.
We continue to sell railcars from our lease fleet to manage portfolio diversification and generate cash when market conditions are favorable.
Selling rail cars from our lease portfolio to institutional investors is an important strategy for TrinityRail.
Portfolio sales also provide opportunities to serve institutional investors seeking investment in leased rail cars in addition to serving our industrial shipper customers with our leasing services.
As we originated the lease we have the flexibility to retain it in our wholly-owned fleet shared in the investment with third-party equity investors like RIV 2013 or sell the railcar with the lease while continuing to manage the railcar and the lessee commercial relationship as we are doing with Element Financial.
We are in conversations with a number of institutional investors looking to make investment of these rail cars.
Having access to diverse sources of debt and equity capital provides the financial flexibility to grow the leasing business in addition to generating capital for Trinity's portfolio of industrial companies.
We have had considerable success in growing our leasing platform and expanding our access to capital to support our lease origination capability.
During the last 12 months our Leasing Group has originated approximately $1 billion in new railcar leases as a result of the strong lease origination platform.
I continued to be very pleased with the operating performance and achievements of our Rail and Leasing Groups.
The focused efforts of our dedicated TrinityRail team to build upon our operating and financial flexibility will continue to drive strong performance levels of our businesses.
The investments we are making position us to benefit from the strong market demand dynamics and pending resolution of tank car regulatory uncertainty.
I'll now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced strong results for the second quarter of 2014 with revenue of nearly $1.5 billion and earnings per share of $1.01 compared with our revenues and EPS of $1.1 billion and $0.52 during the second quarter of 2013.
Please recall that we completed a 2-for-1 stock split in June so all figures have been adjusted accordingly.
Our tax rate for the second quarter was 32.6% which was lower than the guidance of 34% for the final 3 quarters of 2014 that we provided on our last conference call.
This was primarily due to the benefits of certain domestic manufacturing deductions lower state taxes and the partnership tax status of our noncontrolling interest.
The company's convertible notes had a dilutive impact of $0.04 to EPS during the second quarter.
Please refer to the EPS schedule provided in our press release yesterday for the dilution calculation.
In the second quarter we reported approximately $2 million of one-time costs at the corporate level related to the pending asset purchase of Meyer Steel Structures which we expect to close during the third quarter.
During the second quarter we also announced the successful completion of the $1.1 billion leasing joint venture initially formed in May of 2013.
The joint ventures acquisition of approximately $388 million worth of railcars substantially utilized all of the remaining equity capital that was committed last year by TILC and our coinvestors including [indiscernible] performed RIV 2013 and complete the recapitalization of TRIP.
Our partially owned subsidiaries RIV 2013 and TRIP now own a combined portfolio of approximately $2 billion in leased railcars.
During the second quarter we repurchased 63 600 shares of our common stock in the open market for a total cost of $2.5 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $12.5 million of common stock which leaves $237.5 million available under our current program through the end of 2015 for additional stock purchases.
We reviewed a number of factors in establishing the level of share repurchase that we make.
We strive to allocate our capital in ways that will increase shareholder value.
I'll now discuss our current outlook for the remainder of 2014.
As provided in our press release yesterday our guidance for 2014 annual EPS is $3.90 to $4.10 which compares favorably to our prior-year guidance of $3.50 to $3.75.
We have solid earnings expectations for each of our business segments in 2014.
The new guidance level reflects the strong results in the first half of the year additional orders received for production in 2014 and higher levels of efficiencies in many of our production facilities.
Note that our annual EPS and Energy Equipment Group guidance do not include any impact from the Meyer asset purchase due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of closing as well as certain accounting analysis that will be completed following the closing.
Our current EPS guidance for 2014 assumes a weighted average diluted share count of 157 million shares which includes 6.4 million shares from the convertible notes.
The dilutive impact assumes the recent $45 stock price for the remaining 2 quarters and reduces earnings by approximately $0.17 per share.
In 2014 we expect our Rail Group to generate revenues of $3.6 billion to $3.75 billion with an operating margin of 18% to 19%.
We will have some margin headwind in the second half of the year due to product mix changes as well as startup and ramp up costs in certain manufacturing and maintenance services facilities.
We expect our Leasing Group to record operating revenue of $620 million to $635 million with operating profit from operations of $270 million to $285 million.
In 2014 we also expect the Leasing Group to sell approximately $665 million to $690 million of leased railcar from the lease fleet of which $425 million to $450 million will be recorded as revenues.
The total operating profit associated with these sales is expected to range between $205 million and $215 million.
We expect our Construction Products Group to record revenues of $540 million to $565 million with an operating margin of 13% to 14.5%.
Our Inland Barge Group is expected to have revenues of $640 million to $660 million with an operating margin of 16.5% to 17.5%.
We expect our Energy Equipment Group to produce revenues of $880 million to $910 million with an operating margin of 11.5% to 12.5%.
Corporate expenses are expected to range from $100 million to $110 million for the year as a result of our growing business operations and acquisition as well as certain legal expenses.
For 2014 we expect to eliminate between $720 million and $745 million of revenue and defer between $130 million and $140 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to the wholly and partially-own-to-lease fleets.
This guidance range also includes certain Rail Group sales to the Leasing Group that are ultimately sold to Element.
We expect between $310 million and $330 million of revenue eliminations for other intercompany transactions.
We expected to deduct between $30 million and $35 million of noncontrolling earnings in 2014 due to our ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013.
As we've indicated on previous earnings calls TRIP and RIV 2013's partnership tax status results in no taxes applied to the amount of noncontrolling earnings deducted from Trinity's income statement.
For the purposes of the calculation of guidance EPS we are assuming a tax rate of 33% for the remainder of 2014.
As a reminder we were required to report EPS using the two-class method of accounting the result of which should be the reduction of EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.14 per share for the full year 2014 on a split adjusted basis compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
This is included in our EPS guidance as well.
Our full year guidance ranges reflect year-over-year revenue growth of approximately 30% to 40% -- 30% to 35% with earnings per share growth of approximately 60% to 70% compared to 2013.
As it pertains to cash flow we do not expect the net investment in new railcars for 2014 to consume any cash due to expected proceeds received from the leased railcars sales during the year.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2014 are expected to be between $250 million and $300 million.
We remain very pleased with the focused dedication of our employees who are working hard to deliver high-quality earnings and growth during 2014.
We continue to seek both internal and external growth opportunities for future years.
The Meyer asset purchases is a great example of our acquisition strategy and we believe our balance sheet expected cash flow and access to the capital markets if needed provide us with sufficient resources to pursue additional growth.
We are confident that our team will continue to be successful identifying opportunities and integrating acquisitions into our portfolio while maintaining a premier level of performance in our existing businesses.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just going back to the comments on maintenance if I remember correctly your prior shops were mainly committed to your leasing business.
It sounds like the newer ones are not could you just give me a little color and if that's sort of a little bit of a change for you guys? Steve? Allison our maintenance services business has been principally focused on our leased fleet as our leased fleet has grown our maintenance requirement continue to grow as well.
So we are looking at the long-term demand characteristics of our fleet and positioning our maintenance services facility to be able to support that to the extent that we have additional capacity and scheduling permits we want to be able to support key industrial shippers in that business as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then on the capacity question Steve you mentioned that we're in new territory in terms of deliveries.
Do you guys still have enough -- I know it's obviously a fluid question depending on what's being asked to produce but is there still opportunities that for you guys to increase capacity on the rail side if need be? Allison Steve again.
Yes obviously for competitive reasons we don't want to discuss our plans and specifics of manufacturing capacity but I think we've demonstrated that our capacity is very flexible and can be shifted across our business portfolio of products not just within rail as well.
So I'm confident that as we continue to assess demand characteristics we have adequate capacity to be able to respond.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last on the barge you talked a little bit about hoping that mix is changing and hoppers are coming back and are you starting to see that now? And then I guess just on the margin side what kind of headwinds are we expecting for it to drop so meaningfully for the balance of the year? Yes Allison.
This is Bill.
So I think on the inquiry side we're feeling very good about the general inquiry nature on the hopper side of the business particularly as we mentioned both -- scrap prices are up.
There's a lot of movement of corn wheat and soybeans.
The harvest once again looks good and we are seeing an uptick and even coal moving as well so overall it looks good.
As we said on the margin side it's always a function of product mix so it's -- so what barges are you building in any one particular quarter as well as the conditions at which time those orders were taken.
So can't get into a lot of specifics associated with that but the back half margin a little lower than the front half margin.
And we'll take the next question from Steve Barger with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Bigger picture question first.
Tim will your management team models out the infrastructure build dollars coming into transportation and storage products that you either can participate in or hope to get involved with can you quantify the size of those opportunities you see in dollars and talk about how you think about end market visibility in terms of years? No.
We can't quantify the dollars but what we do is we look at the various businesses that we have in our portfolio and each of our business leaders looks at it from an ecosphere point of view and tries to identify the business opportunities that are in front of them and then we get together and talk about the entire industry spectrum and the products that are in those spectrums that we could potentially manufacture and then the companies that are in that that manufacture those products and we look at it on an industry in a market by market case tied back to our businesses and then we look at how they overlap with the other businesses that we have from a manufacturing flexibility point of view.
So that's more or less the basis of what our strategic planning and growth process looks like.
Research Division</strong> Well you've done the cryogenic acquisitions and now you're pursuing -- you announced the Meyer deal.
Looking forward to other acquisitions in those specific spaces or should we expect to see a broader product build out? How are you thinking about the opportunities in front of you? Well we're really an opportunistic company and it's a matter of businesses that are up for sale or in the marketplace is one group that we look at.
And then it's also businesses that we planted seeds with over a period of time that would begin to harvest as far as the idea of us acquiring them and/or a lot of networking and relationships that we have so it's very opportunistic and it also is tied to the quality of the fit of the particular business within our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Steve are you seeing customers come to you placing multi-year or blanket orders or are the inquiries and orders coming in bigger blocks giving whether it's the regulatory changes or what looks like increasing demand for freight cars? Steve yes we have customers who want to look at their long-term purchases particularly with extended backlogs I think that's becoming a little more prevalent historically if you get a rail car in 6 9 12 months.
That's not the case now so it forces customers to look more long-term.
Certainly we'll entertain long-term agreements to the extent they make sense and they have proper pricing mechanisms and hedges towards rising costs.
Research Division</strong> And given the increasing volume of freight orders are you seeing pricing starting to firm up on that side of the business? Absolutely as I mention we've got a backlog of -- the industry backlogs a little over 6 quarters in freight car production and fairly wide swaths of rail car types and truly we're seeing pricing firming and increasing as those backlogs extend.
There are really no existing idle cars available today.
I think the AAR reported their idle count as the lowest it's been since they started taking account.
So all that bodes very well for good strong pricing environment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last question for you James.
When I look at your balance sheet your net cash on the manufacturing side very conservatively levered on the leasing side as you mentioned you're going to be generating a lot of operating cash flow.
I know Trinity will continue to look for acquisitions but do you see anything out there trading at a more attractive multiple than your own stock and should we expect you to remain active on the buyback? Well I think as I said in my script and this is James P thanks for the question.
We look at capital allocation on a quarter-by-quarter annual basis with our Board of Directors as well.
We're looking at a lot of organic investment with the manufacturing CapEx we have of $250 million $300 million.
We've been active in the stock buyback over the last year or so we've raised our dividend multiple times and we've clearly been active on the acquisition side.
But to your point we do have a lot of cash on the balance sheet.
We continue to generate cash flow we will use some of that with the Meyer acquisition the cash on hand but we do continue to have a very strong balance sheet to pursue all of the above type strategies as we see opportunities.
And we'll take our next question from Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Over the first half of the year the rail car order environment was clearly very strong but I was curious as you look into the second half do you have confidence that the industry backlog can continue to build from these levels just based on the inquiry levels that you're seeing in the market today or do you think there's a chance we could see a little bit of a pause in order flow? Steve? Justin this is Steve.
As I said in my script we're seeing very steady order inquiry levels of both tank and freight cars coming into the third quarter.
I look long-term as the fundamentals from the energy renaissance.
I look at the broader markets and then see a continuing strong demand.
Short of geopolitical events which obviously we don't control I would expect we're going to continue to operate in a strong rail car environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And I know you guys won't give guidance on 2015 yet but just high level if I look you have 45 000 railcars in your backlog today.
At this point do you feel like you have enough visibility to say that your deliveries will be directionally higher next year? Justin this is James.
I'll take that one.
We clearly do have the strong backlog across our business lines.
We have about $6.5 billion when you combine the backlogs in the major business that we disclose that does give us this visibility well into 2015 and beyond in certain product lines we're not in a position at this time to give direction on our production levels in our different business services or earning levels.
But as Tim said we do have positive momentum.
The investments we have been making are resulting in nice margins.
We continue to have good order inquiries and orders come through in the businesses.
So we do look forward to later as we move along providing more insight into 2015 and '16 but for now we're focused on our guidance for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then one last one from me if you don't mind.
I wanted to ask about the Meyer acquisition.
Is there any detail you can provide in terms of the margin profile of this business and the earnings impact you expect once maybe on an annual basis once this is closed.
And then along those lines anything you could speak to in terms of the synergy opportunity as well would be helpful.
James? Sure this is James Justin.
One thing we did disclose in our press release previously is the revenue run rate for 2014 for Meyer on a standalone basis.
It was about $325 million.
We're not able to provide any margin guidance at this point I'll mention a couple of things one is we need to finish the acquisition during the third quarter for that business.
As we look at enrichment opportunities we do believe they will be there flowing both ways between our companies.
We'll also point out and will disclose later in the years we're able to close the acquisition but accounting adjustments we need to make through purchase price accounting and so forth.
So historically the businesses had healthy margins we believe in that going forward but as Bill said there's a lot of demand drivers there that we'll get our arms around as we absorb the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe on the synergy opportunity anything you could speak to there just high level? We really can't provide you any specific what you would call synergies we really use the term enrichment in our culture more Justin as we look at everything from the customer base the manufacturing requirements to the steel and those kinds of things.
So we'll provide what we can as we go along we'll determine what level of guidance we can provide as we make the acquisition.
We'll take our next question from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So we finally got U.S.
safety regulations at least in draft form about the flammable liquids by rail and movements and tank car standards and that gives you at least some incremental clarity of which tank car upgrades are going to be required and how long you will have to make those if you want to keep those cars and crude ethanol unit train service.
How are you approaching the replaced versus retrofit decision in your own lease fleet today? And how is that going to differ between whether this is a "legacy DOT-111 car or a newer CPC-1232 car?" And if there's any differentiation between how you're approaching a jacket versus non-jacket car? Please point that out to as well.
Steve do you want to take that? Yes sure.
I don't know that I share your insight that we have great clarity following the announcements from Transport Canada if anything I think there's perhaps even more uncertainty.
The conflicts this obvious conflicts between the 2 regulatory bodies so I think we have much to learn.
We have dedicated resources that are deep in analysis and study of this.
Obviously we have cars that will be impacted.
We have cars in flammable service today and we're positioning ourselves to be able to respond to building the new specifications.
We've been investing in doing our prototyping and analysis so I feel we'll be very well prepared for whatever the outcomes are but the announcements in the last few weeks I didn't think brought any really great clarity to the process.
As far as retrofit and scrapping we're going to do analysis on that so much it depends upon the age of the car it depends upon the lease terms that we have and so there's quite a bit of analysis that needs to be done once we understand what the new performance standards are and what the specifications are that we have to make.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And following up on an earlier question just from a high-level looking from here to 2015 I know you don't want to give specific guidance but as to estimates from the Street out there implying that earnings and EBITDA are going to be down year-over-year which certainly is at odds with the momentum you seem to be seeing in your business and the visibility you have today.
I mean is there any help or things you could point out that could cause a -- or what are you concerned about that that might cause a weaker 2015 versus 2014 just so we can have that on our radar? So Bascome this is James.
I'm not sure I'd point anything that would give you a lot of clarity in terms of opportunities there other than we continue to build the backlog in our business units.
We continue to show strong margin performance.
As we talked about before we expect to complete roughly the first billion dollars of purchases from Element during 2014 and the second billion is slated for 2015.
We will provide clarity as we have that later in the year as is available.
But we continue to have a lot of positive momentum in the company we're optimistic about our growth opportunities we demonstrated that through the acquisitions we've made they continue to build the portfolio.
We continue to invest our capital organically to give us growth opportunities as well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
And if I could ask just one more on the tank cars side clearly there's uncertainty out there which you alluded to in the answer to my earlier question but if you got customers with CPC-1232 cars on order today expecting delivery over the next couple of quarters before that uncertainty maybe I guess resolved.
Have they changed their response or are they changing specs in response to what we've seen already or is it more so the wait-and-see and potentially retrofit if we have to on the back end? Just what you're hearing from your customers today.
Bascome this is Steve again.
We are obviously going to work with our customers trying to accommodate them.
We want them to have the right cars for their fleet to the extent we are able to do that we will.
But each of those has an individual view all other companies view this issue very differently and I think it's our responsibility to work with them on an individual basis.
It'd be very hard for me to give you a general answer to that question.
And we'll go next to Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
If you could maybe highlight what's left in terms of the $1 billion for the Element deal that should be booked in the second half of this year.
And then maybe talk to the contribution per third and fourth quarter.
It looks like you did about 1/3 of the total of what was left in 2Q I'm just curious as to your expectations for kind of the cadence of what remains from Element in the back half of this year.
Matt this is James.
Using the roughly $1 billion that we've talked about and again that could move a little bit timing-wise.
To-date Element's has purchased since December of last year through June 30 $740 million of rail cars from us but from our Rail Group and our Leasing Group that math will tell you there's 260 left in that first $1 billion but again that's not a terribly precise number.
We do expect to have a relatively steady level of sales Element throughout the course of the last 2 quarters of the year.
But again geography the timing of exact sales and whether they're from the Rail and Leasing Group is to be determined.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then we heard there is some uncertainty with respect to flammable of tank cars and orders here.
Do you have I guess a little bit more visibility with proposed rule out there but I'm just curious there's -- it seems like there's still a pause with respect to the market participants stepping in and booking orders and that was the case in 2Q yet that the industry tank car number was really strong at roughly 10 000 units so I'm just curious as to pause in the market yet that the industry numbers got better in 2Q what were some of the contributors to that improvement if you have some thoughts on that? Sure Matt.
This is Steve.
I think generally there are customers who are pausing waiting to order new railcars pending regulatory standards.
That's to be expected.
As I mentioned in my earlier comments we also have customers who recognize that they'll have a chance to clarify their railcars specifications by the time a car is built in the late '15 '16.
The regulations will be more certain before then but beyond just tank cars going to flammables as we are seeing steady demand for other types of tank cars.
In particular we're seeing strong demand for pressure cars to move natural gas liquids and propylene for example.
We're also seeing tank cars to move more general commodities so there are tank cars in demand beyond those serving flammable service and we will see a pause and it'll be a temporary pause until standards are clarified to those flammable customers to place their orders perhaps we'll see a few early so that they can get in queue I would expect that the demand will be strong once those flammable standards are clarified.
Okay.
And is it fair to assume the past 2 years we've seen a disproportionate amount of flammable service tank car orders coming through and yet we've neglected a portion of the market outside of flammable service.
Could the step up in 2Q be a result of some of these other market participants coming in and maybe playing some catch-up in some of these other tank car categories? Matt this is Steve yes sure.
That's entirely possible.
When we say disproportionate I'm not really sure what that means if you look historically there's always been 1 or 2 car types driving overall railcar demand with ethanol cars back in the '07 '08 period we got periods where coal cars drove rail car demand intermodal cars.
So the trend right now is for cars for crude oil service.
But we saw a lot of other tank cars over the last couple of years going to service for hydrochloric acid other general service cars so these are natural cycles and trends where different car types lead the way but the clue is demand for tank cars beyond crude oil cars.
And we'll take the next question from Eric Crawford with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> With UBS.
So just following upon -- Bascome was asking some questions on PHMSA.
Appreciate the commentary on tank car rates I hope we can drill down a little bit more on the NPRM.
Do you have a preference for 1 of the 3 options or some variation that was outlined and following -- to that any thoughts on the proposed timeframe or the retrofit estimated costs that were included do you think those are accurate? Any color would be helpful.
Eric Steve.
I think the only thing that I'm excited about is having certainty and it appears that we might have greater certainty as to the direction of regulatory requirements by the end of the year.
I don't have a preference so we're going to be prepared for any of our outcomes and I think our team has really done a fine job in preparing themselves for regulatory change.
So I'm confident we'll be in a good position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess switching over to the energy segment the recent acquisitions and the integration that's going on there from the segment guidance you've taken up the margin expectations while holding revenue steady.
So just wondering if that's a function of an improved margin profile for the new businesses relative to your initial expectations or if it's just broader execution across the segment? Eric this is Bill.
I would say it's really broader execution across the segment.
In particular our storage containers doing very very well.
And our wind tower business continues to have improved performance so probably those 2 businesses is really the driving force.
I am pleased with the integration of the businesses but like all new business we bring in it takes a little time to get them up to full speed.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay that's helpful.
And then last for me.
You mentioned a margin headwind in rail just from the startup costs and a little bit from mix but wondering if you could kind of give us a sense of the breakdown between those 2.
Is it 50/50 equally attributable or is 1 really the primary driver? Eric this is James.
We're really not in a position to break that down.
The margins remain very strong in the second half of the year for rail certainly.
We think we wanted to point out that you all going from time to time as we're ramping up our capacity to the new volume guidance that Steve provided.
We're ramping up our maintenance facilities integrating the Arkansas facility for example as well as that Steve mentioned the timing of which we took certain orders and when we're producing certain orders you can have a slight headwind in the second part of the year but again margins remain very strong in the Rail Group.
And we'll go next to Salvatore Vitale with Stern Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the backlog if I just back out the implied second half deliveries guidance just based on your full year guidance I see 29 500 to about 31 000 cars I guess slated for delivery beyond 2014.
How should we think about how much of that stretches out into 2016 at this point? Steve? I don't want to give any specifics of what parts of our backlog fall into what years but I think we have great visibility into 2015 in our production plans we do have some of our production lines that are slated all the way into 2016.
So obviously that gives us a good bit of visibility and allows us to plan our business effectively and I would expect that we'll continue to take orders and fill in whatever holes we might have in '15 and '16 as we move forward.
Sal this is Tim.
The other thing that Steve and his group have done really well is they've identified bottlenecks that they may have on certain product lines.
And then the capital that James mentioned the internal capital that we're spending we've spent quite a bit of capital on minimizing bottlenecks freeing up bottlenecks in our rail car lines and then getting the volume to increase and that capital that we're spending is getting tremendous returns on it and the people are doing a fabulous job of driving operating efficiencies once the bottlenecks that we have in a particular production facility get the -- once they overcome them.
So this -- that's why it was a little bit hard for Steve to say how high he could go because our industrial engineering people as well as our lean initiatives and all of our people are identifying bottlenecks once they overcome one bottleneck then they go to the next one and we've made great headway in continuing to invest capital in that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I appreciate your response.
Regarding the Georgia facility could you give us a little color there? When does the incremental capacity from that come online or is it already on stream? And have you spoken in the past about what -- how many cars -- how much that capacity actually is? Sal this is Steve.
Again I'm very pleased with the progress we're making.
We're fully positioning our Cartersville facility to be a very flexible facility capable of making multi-products so within our railcar product line.
I would anticipate that we'll be in a reasonable level of production by the end of the year and then we will ramp up that facility to meet demand requirements as we see fit.
And again we typically don't provide capacity numbers by plant or in total but this facility will be very constructive to our production plants.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I could just switch gears to the maintenance services side.
Once all of your -- you mentioned a few different plants I think you said 4 additional facilities beyond the Arkansas facility.
So once all those facilities are up and running what do you think your capacity to do the retrofits would be at that point? Sal Steve again.
It's a difficult question because I'm not sure what the retrofits are going to be and there's a fair amount of variability in the different possible outcomes but we certainly want to be able to comply with any of the regulatory requirements from a timing standpoint as well as from a specification standpoint.
And as I mentioned we have our own fleet that we want to be sure that we can keep in service and meet the needs of our customers and obviously we want to be able to work with key customers who have larger fleets as well.
So I think we'll be in very good position in response of regulatory rate changes when they come down.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on that.
Do you expect that to be a profit center at some point or do you expect the capacity to be consumed I guess by the retrofits on your lease fleet? Well obviously Sal if we're doing a lot of work at our own fleet those revenues and profits are eliminated in consolidation.
Profits that we would realize from third-party work would go to the bottom line and difficult for us to really give you any projections on that right now.
The next question is from Arthur Hatfield with Raymond James.
This is Derek Rabe on for Art.
Just had 2 questions that really haven't been addressed on my end.
The first question concerns labor.
We've been hearing across multiple industries that there's some difficulty in finding and keeping skilled workers.
As you ramp up your production and maintenance capabilities across several of your platforms has this been an issue or are you seeing this as being an issue going forward across any of those businesses be it in the U.S.
or Mexico? Derek this is Tim.
In hiring skilled laborers throughout our system has been a challenge and our people working with our HR groups are trying to find a variety of different ways to assist our plants in hiring people in a number of areas we have training programs that have been established and we work with the local authorities to -- and the trade schools to try to equip people for our type of work environment and -- but this is nothing new.
This is something I mean my 16th year of CEO and almost every year that I've been in this position we've had challenges of hiring people and getting them equipped for our facilities and our people do a remarkable job of coping with the challenges that are out there.
Okay I appreciate that color.
The second and final question from me could you just provide an update on where you stand today in terms of your DOT-111 and flammable service exposure within your lease fleet? I think at the end of the last quarter it was down to 11 300.
And then secondly as you reduce that exposure within your own fleet can you comment on what you're doing with those cars? Are you moving those to other services or are you looking to sell? Derek this is James.
In terms of the level of exposure we have with those cars it's in line with where it was last quarter.
We gave guidance last quarter that was around 11 000 and that number hasn't really changed.
We've added cars to the fleet.
We sold cars to our partially owned fleet as well as to Element and other third parties.
So that number can move around.
I don't think we're in a position yet to talk about what we may do to change the exposure or what may happen with those cars until as Steve said.
We'll have more clarity around the regulations.
And we'll take our last question from Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but 2 questions.
As the recovery takes place in non-tank cars I was wondering Steve if you could comment on how competitive pricing might be for those? And then just wanted to clarify I know years ago you did intermodal cars but it seems like there's been a long time as of right now you're not building intermodal or coal cars.
Is that correct? Tom Steve here.
Our industry is a very competitive industry.
And I think historically we've seen excess capacity compared to demand.
We have very very strong demand.
I think some of the capacity in our industry has been rationalized.
I think some of the capacity for freight cars has been moved to tank cars.
And so when we look at a 6 quarter backlog I think it's a very strong environment and it certainly sends messages that we should be able to operate in a fairly strong pricing environment as well.
So I like the fundamentals that I'm seeing in the non-tank car side of the business and hopefully those will continue.
With respect to intermodal cars there was a large number of intermodal cars placed during the second quarter orders for intermodal cars.
And you are correct we are not currently building intermodal cars.
And frankly when we prioritize our production plans we look for those cars that provide us the greatest returns and typically we find that those are markets that have multiple customers and fewer than 5 or 6 suppliers and when we look at the intermodal market we see basically 1 buyer and multiple suppliers.
So that doesn't really compel us to chase that market when we have opportunities that are consistent with our current production plans.
Okay.
This is Gail Peck.
It looks like that concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern standard time today through midnight on August 6 2014.
The access number is (402) 220-0119.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's program.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at anytime.
Good day and welcome to the Trinity Industries Inc.
Third Quarter results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's program may be recorded.
Before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to the estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity’s Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
You may begin.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries Third Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Following the introduction you will hear from Tim Wallace our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President.
After Tim our business group leaders will provide overviews of the businesses within their respective groups.
Our speakers are: Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; and Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups.
Following their comments James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide the financial summary and guidance.
We will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace for his comments.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
I'll begin this morning by providing some brief comments pertaining to our Highway Products litigation and then I'll move to some comments about our third -- our strong third quarter financial results.
Before I provide remarks pertaining to the litigation I want everyone to know that it is extremely important to us that our nation's roads are safe for drivers across the country.
Last week Trinity and Trinity Highway Products LLC received an adverse jury verdict on its previously disclosed False Claims litigation.
The company maintains that the allegations are without merit and the damages awarded were based on insufficient evidence.
The court has not yet entered a final judgment in this case.
We intend to vigorously defend our position in post-trial motions and on appeal to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
As background information engineers at Texas A&amp;M developed and designed the ET-Plus which is the product involved in the litigation.
The Texas A&amp;M system established the Texas A&amp;M Transportation Institute in 1950 and is recognized as the largest transportation research agency in the United States.
The Texas A&amp;M University system is the owner of the ET-Plus patent.
We have placed a high degree of confidence in the Texas A&amp;M system as well as the Texas A&amp;M Transportation Institute and we rely on their engineering and expertise pertaining to the ET-Plus.
In order to keep things simple I'm going to refer to both entities as Texas A&amp;M.
Trinity Highway Products manufactures and markets the ET-Plus according to an exclusive license agreement granted by Texas A&amp;M.
According to our license agreement Texas A&amp;M is responsible for the research design and development of the ET-Plus.
Texas A&amp;M conducted crash testing of the ET-Plus to demonstrate compliance with the required Federal Highway standards.
In addition Texas A&amp;M prepared the ET-Plus test reports reviewed by the Federal Highway Administration in their consideration of product acceptance.
It is our belief that since its introduction in 2000 including all additional improvements to the product the ET-Plus system has been in compliance with the governing standards.
On October 21 after the adverse trial verdict the Federal Highway Administration requested that Trinity Highway Products perform a series of additional tests to support their ongoing evaluation of the ET-Plus.
On October 24 Trinity Highway Products issued a press release stating it will stop shipment of the ET-Plus until the additional testing has been completed.
Texas A&amp;M's technical and engineering experts are confident the additional tests of the ET-Plus will be successful.
Until we know the outcome of the additional tests we will not speculate on hypothetical scenarios.
During today's call our responses to specific questions regarding litigation will be limited.
Our third quarter 10-Q will provide detailed disclosures related to this matter.
From a capital planning point of view we will maintain a conservative approach until we develop a better sense of clarity pertaining to the litigation and related matters.
Now I will provide some comments about our third quarter financial results.
I'm pleased with our financial results for the third quarter.
I continue to be impressed with how our people are driving operating leverage and efficiencies to the bottom line.
We also made great progress in the business development area during the third quarter.
In August we closed on the purchase of the assets of Meyer Steel Structures.
This transaction established our market leadership position in the electric transmission towers industry.
During the third quarter our rail and leasing businesses continued to achieve high levels of profitability.
We are making significant investments in our rail platform to organically grow our operations in response to strong demand.
I'm pleased with the performance of our Energy Equipment Construction Products and Inland Barge Groups.
These businesses grew year-over-year revenue and profits by 34% and 44% respectively in the third quarter.
The growth is the result of the great strides our businesses made in flexing their operations to respond to changes in market demand as well as the acquisitions we've made during the last year.
Trinity's financial accomplishments during the past year have established a higher earnings platform.
Our current 2014 earnings guidance range indicates a new record level for Trinity surpassing prior record years by a wide margin.
I'm very pleased with the company's financial performance.
A portion of our earnings increase is due to the level of railcar sales generated by our leasing business.
Transactional activities are becoming a fundamental part of our leasing business model.
We expect to continue conducting railcar leasing and other transactions that provide earnings and generate cash.
As we plan and look towards 2015 we have set a goal of generating a higher level of earnings than we achieved this year.
We have a large amount of positive momentum occurring at the operating level of our businesses and we are working diligently to build upon the strong earnings platform we have established.
Trinity remains uniquely positioned to provide a variety of transportation and storage products to the oil gas and chemicals industry.
To be a premier diversified industrial company we recognize the importance of sustainable earnings growth and the company's business model is aligned with that goal in mind.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
The Energy Equipment Group reported record revenue for the third quarter.
The group also doubled its quarterly operating profit compared to last year.
Revenues and profits increased primarily due to recent acquisitions higher shipments of storage containers serving the energy sector as well as increased deliveries and improved operational performance in our wind tower business.
At the end of the quarter our wind tower backlog totaled $529 million.
During the third quarter Trinity completed the purchase of the assets of Meyer Steel Structures.
This acquisition enhances the diversity of Trinity's portfolio of businesses.
The Meyer business is now a part of Trinity's Energy Equipment Group and operates as Trinity Meyer Utility Structures LLC.
The integration of Meyer is progressing smoothly.
The addition of Meyer provides Trinity a market-leading position in the North American utility steel structures market.
While current market fundamentals continue to create a very competitive environment our long-term outlook is positive.
Moving to our Inland Barge Group.
During the third quarter the Inland Barge Group reported a 30% year-over-year increase in operating profit primarily resulting from a change in product mix.
We received orders totaling approximately $177 million during the quarter resulting in a backlog of $475 million at the end of September.
I'm pleased with our Barge Group's ability to respond to various demand drivers and generate efficiencies within the plants.
This group's operational flexibility is a key differentiator enabling us to enhance profitability and respond to our customers' needs.
Inquiries for hopper barges have been steady due to strong corn and soybean harvests.
Tank barge demand is currently driven primarily by downstream markets including chemical and petrochemicals.
The order environment for new tank barges is consistent with our earlier expectations that downstream infrastructure investments would create additional demand.
Moving to our Construction Products Group.
Overall I am pleased with the level of profitability we achieved in the third quarter.
Revenues increased 14% year-over-year primarily resulting from higher sales volumes in our Aggregates business.
Operating profit increased 16% compared to last year due to a more favorable product mix.
We continue to see strong demand in the Texas construction market which is a good indicator of overall demand for our Aggregates business.
Conditions in the highway business remain challenging.
The continued uncertainty regarding the availability of funding for the Federal Highway Bill makes it difficult for state highway authorities to plan longer-term projects.
With regard to the highway litigation matter.
Both Trinity Highway Products and Texas A&amp;M Transportation Institute are working to develop the testing plan requested by the Federal Highway Administration and we'll deliver the proposed plan this week.
Testing dates and additional details will not be finalized until the plan has been approved by the Federal Highway Administration.
At a state level we are working with each state to better understand their concerns and the possible course of action.
We do not have any additional details to provide at this time.
And now I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
TrinityRail's positive operating momentum continued during the third quarter.
Our integrated business platform is well positioned and responding effectively to strong railcar demand.
During the third quarter our Rail Group and Leasing and Management Services Group delivered outstanding results.
Our operating and financial flexibility continues to differentiate TrinityRail enhancing our position as a premier provider of railcar products and services.
The North American railcar industry experienced a record level of orders during the third quarter reflecting broad industry demand.
The industry backlog now stands at over 124 000 railcars eclipsing last quarter's record levels.
During the third quarter TrinityRail received orders for 14 120 new railcars including covered hoppers tank cars and auto racks with orders received from railroads third-party lessors and industrial shippers.
Our backlog increased to 51 725 railcars with a new record value of approximately $6.1 billion.
The North American energy renaissance and economic recovery are driving increased demand for railcars across a broad number of key markets.
We continue to receive orders for tank cars to transport crude oil and other flammables although some demand is currently paused pending regulatory clarity.
Demand for railcars to transport sand and proppants used in oil and gas production remains very strong.
We are also seeing rising railcar demand in downstream oil and gas markets such as petrochemicals chemicals and fertilizers.
We believe this downstream demand will continue to grow with the significant investments being made in production capacity in those industries.
There is steady demand for railcars supporting the automotive and steel industries as well as construction-related activities.
Demand for railcars to move agricultural products is also strong as existing railcar supply is limited for this year's harvest and rising grain exports.
In addition the replacement of the aging North American fleet continues to be an important driver for long-term railcar demand.
This demand environment creates an exciting period for the railcar business and presents potentially an early stage of an elongated railcar cycle.
During the third quarter our Rail Group produced another record level of operating profit.
I am very pleased with the group's ability to sustain high levels of productivity and efficiency while facing some operational headwinds due to product mix changes and product production line changeovers.
Our industry-leading backlog comprised of a broad mix of tank and freight cars positions us to realize benefits from extended production runs into 2015 and 2016.
During the third quarter the Rail Group delivered 7 745 railcars.
In the fourth quarter we expect to deliver between 8 100 and 8 300 railcars which brings total annual deliveries to approximately 30 000 railcars in 2014 a record level for Trinity.
As we enter 2015 we expect a production rate similar to that of the upcoming fourth quarter.
If sustained this will result in another record year of railcar deliveries for TrinityRail.
We continue to make investments in our business to prepare for tank car regulatory changes expected from the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Transport Canada in the very near future.
We appreciate the careful considerations that the federal regulatory agencies are giving to the many public responses to the notice of proposed rulemaking.
TrinityRail continues to participate in the industry dialogue.
Our priority is to ensure the regulatory compliance of our own lease fleet as well as those of key strategic customers.
Keep in mind the issuance of new regulations does not change the fact that commodities currently transported in DOT-111 tank cars will still need to be transported in either modified tank cars or new tank cars.
TrinityRail is well positioned to meet demand for railcars created by both alternatives.
We recently announced plans to establish a maintenance services facility in the state of Iowa.
The development of this new facility increases our capacity to ensure our growing lease fleet of tank cars meets regulatory requirements and to perform modifications that may stem from new tank car regulations.
As a reminder in the second quarter we announced the acquisition of our Arkansas maintenance services facility.
Our ongoing investments in maintenance services facilities ensure that both our leasing company and our key industrial customers have access to cost-effective services in a capacity-constrained marketplace.
During the third quarter our Leasing Group reported an increase in year-over-year operating profit due to strong market fundamentals and new additions to the wholly-owned lease fleet.
With industry railcar utilization quite high there are very few available existing railcars.
New railcar production backlogs extend well into 2016 and some into 2017 for both new tank and freight cars.
These factors combined with rising new railcar prices are driving very strong lease renewal rate increases across most railcar types.
Our lease fleet utilization at the end of the third quarter was 99.7% up from 98.5% last year.
I am very pleased with our sustained high level of fleet utilization and the strong renewal rate increases that our team continues to achieve.
During the third quarter the Leasing Group took delivery of approximately 1 830 new railcars.
Our total lease portfolio including partially-owned subsidiaries now stands at 74 945 railcars.
At the end of the quarter 28% of the railcars in our order backlog were committed to customers of our leasing business bringing our leasing backlog to $1.7 billion.
During the last 12 months our commercial team has originated over $1.8 billion in new railcar leases and achieved excellent renewal results.
Over the last decade we've focused on investing in the lease fleet to offer one-stop shopping for our industrial customers as well as creating a stable base of earnings and cash flow to mitigate rail market cyclicality on the company's overall results.
Our leasing platform has grown and developed and now includes extensive relationships with institutional investors that will support the growth of our lease fleet.
The size and scale of our leasing operations allows us to actively participate in the secondary market.
Participating in the secondary market helps manage fleet diversification and creates the opportunity for transactional earnings.
We expect transactional earnings to be a consistent part of the annual earnings profile of our leasing business.
In summary the focused efforts of our dedicated TrinityRail team to enhance our operating and financial flexibility continue to drive strong performance levels.
The investments we are making position us to benefit from strong market fundamentals as well as fulfill market requirements when new federal tank car guidelines are issued.
I'm very pleased with TrinityRail's strong momentum as we finish the current year and head into 2015.
I'll now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced strong results for the third quarter of 2014 with record revenue of approximately $1.6 billion and EPS of $.90 compared with revenues of $1.1 billion and EPS of $0.63 during the third quarter of 2013.
Please recall that we completed a 2-for-1 stock split in June of this year so all figures have been adjusted accordingly.
The company's convertible notes had a dilutive impact of $0.05 to EPS during the third quarter.
The convertible notes did not have a dilutive impact on prior year results.
Please refer to the EPS schedule provided in our press release yesterday for the calculation of the dilutive impact.
In the third quarter we recorded approximately $7.5 million or $0.03 per share of onetime costs related to the asset purchase of Meyer Steel Structures which closed in August.
Approximately $6 million of these costs were recorded at the corporate level and approximately $1.5 million were recorded as additional nonrecurring state income tax expense.
During the third quarter we repurchased 407 000 shares of our common stock in the open market for a total cost of $19 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $31.5 million of common stock.
With respect to the highway litigation Trinity believes that it is not probable at this time that the jury decision will withstand legal scrutiny.
As we diligently pursue a successful outcome in this case which may result in an appeal to the Fifth Circuit we may need to satisfy certain bonding requirements if the district court enters the final judgment.
We are confident in our ability to procure sufficient bonding capacity at a reasonable cost should the court require an appeal bond.
Current indications from our insurance providers are that such a bond will be provided on an unsecured basis.
We maintain a strong balance sheet with the readily available liquidity of approximately $1.3 billion.
We expect our cash flow generation to be strong and Trinity has access to additional capital as needed.
I will now discuss our current outlook for the remainder of 2014.
As provided in our press release yesterday our guidance for 2014 annual EPS is $4.08 to $4.16 which compares very favorably to our prior guidance of $3.90 to $4.10.
This implies fourth quarter earnings of $0.75 to $0.83 per share.
Results from the Meyer acquisition are now included in our earnings guidance.
Due to onetime costs associated with the transaction as well as ongoing intangible asset amortization Meyer has a minimal net earnings impact in 2014.
Our earnings and guidance also incorporated expenses associated with our Highway Products litigation.
Our current EPS guidance for 2014 assumes a weighted average diluted share count of 157 million shares which includes 5.8 million shares from the convertible notes.
The dilutive impact assumes an average stock price of $37.45 for the year and reduces earnings by approximately $0.16 per share.
The remainder of the guidance I will provide today relates to the fourth quarter.
We expect to resume our practice of providing annual guidance ranges when we issue guidance for 2015.
In the fourth quarter we expect our Rail Group to generate revenues of $1 billion to $1.1 billion with an operating margin of 17.5% to 18%.
These ranges incorporate the fourth quarter delivery guidance Steve mentioned in his remarks which implies 2014 total deliveries of approximately 30 000 railcars.
Fourth quarter operating margins for the Rail Group are lower than previously achieved year-to-date due to product mix changes and changeover costs associated with certain production lines.
We expect our Leasing Group to record operating revenues for the fourth quarter of $155 million to $160 million with operating profits from operations of $65 million to $70 million.
The implied operating margin is lower on a year-over-year and sequential basis due to a higher level of compliance-related maintenance the timing of which can be uneven.
We anticipate fourth quarter sales of leased railcars from the lease fleet to generate $62 million to $67 million all of which are expected to be recorded in the Leasing Group as revenues.
The fourth quarter operating profit associated with these sales is expected to range between $13 million and $15 million.
Since announcing the $2 billion strategic alliance last December we have sold $873 million of leased railcars to Element Financial.
We expect to substantially complete the sale of first $1 billion of leased railcars by the end of 2014 leaving $1 billion of sales remaining.
Element intends to purchase these railcars in 2015 and we remain confident in the timing.
We expect our Construction Products Group to record fourth quarter revenues of $135 million to $145 million with an operating margin of 4% to 5%.
Margins are expected to step down in the fourth quarter reflecting the seasonal nature of the construction business as well as impacts from the litigation including our decision last week to suspend sales of the ET-Plus System.
Year-to-date 9-month revenue from this product was approximately $33 million consistent with prior-year levels.
Our Inland Barge Group is expected to report revenues of $165 million to $175 million for the fourth quarter with an operating margin of 13.5% to 14.5% as a result of the mix of products being delivered in the quarter.
As we look beyond the fourth quarter we are pleased with the overall pricing levels in our barge backlog.
We expect our Energy Equipment Group to produce fourth quarter revenues of $265 million to $275 million with an operating margin of 9.5% to 10.5% including the operating results of Meyer from the date of acquisition which includes the amortization of certain acquired assets due to purchase price accounting.
Corporate expenses are expected to range from $28 million to $32 million during the fourth quarter.
Our guidance does not include a reserve related to the jury's adverse decision in the highway litigation.
Pending entry of a final judgment and completion of the company's post-trial and appellate activities in this matter we do not currently believe that a loss is probable.
We will direct you to our third quarter Form 10-Q which will provide further details regarding the status of the litigation and related matters.
Our guidance for corporate expenses does however include certain legal expenses associated with the ongoing litigation.
For the fourth quarter we expect to eliminate between $190 million and $200 million of revenue and defer between $30 million and $35 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to our lease fleet.
This guidance range also includes the elimination of certain Rail Group sales to the Leasing Group that are later sold to third parties from the Leasing Group.
We expect between $70 million and $80 million of revenue eliminations for other intercompany transactions during the fourth quarter.
We expect to deduct between $8 million and $10 million of noncontrolling earnings in the fourth quarter due to our partial ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013.
As we have indicated on previous earnings calls TRIP and RIV 2013's partnership tax status results in no taxes applied to the amount of noncontrolling earnings deducted from Trinity's income statement.
Near the end of the third quarter we issued $400 million of 10-year senior unsecured notes for general corporate purposes at an attractive interest rate of 4.55%.
During the fourth quarter we will begin to incur a full quarter of interest expense from our $400 million of senior notes reducing EPS by approximately $0.02 per quarter going forward.
For the purpose of calculating our EPS guidance we're estimating a tax rate of approximately 33% for the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we are required to report EPS using the two-class method of accounting the results of which should be the reduction of EPS attributable to Trinity by approximately $0.03 per share for the fourth quarter compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
This is included in our EPS guidance as well.
As it pertains to cash flow we expect the annual net cash investment in new railcars in our lease fleet to be minimal if any in 2014 after considering the expected proceeds received from leased railcar sales during the year.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2014 are expected to be between $250 million and $300 million.
Our guidance ranges imply year-over-year annual revenue growth of approximately 40% and annual earnings growth of more than 70% representing another record year for Trinity.
As Tim indicated in his remarks we are establishing a higher earnings platform in 2014.
We recognize the importance of sustainable earnings growth and we believe the company's business model is aligned with that goal in mind.
With a record combined reported backlog of $7.1 billion in our major businesses we are well positioned to make progress on this goal in 2015.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Since there's certainly a lot of uncertainty around being [ph] the regulations from crude by rail and obviously we've seen oil come down pretty dramatically and people concerned about capital budgets and such in that industry I mean do you guys hear anything anecdotally? Is there a change in tone? Are regulations too onerous? Any updated thoughts on what you're hearing that you can share with us with respect to that? Yes Steve do you want to take that? I think the question really revolves around the current market dynamics.
It's certainly true of the crude oil and the impact on demand for railcars.
And I think first of all when we look at what's happening with crude oil today we're really looking at the long-term prospects for continued growth and expansion of oil and gas production.
And I think the investments being made are really based on long-term price projections not necessarily short-term spot-market price volatility.
So we don't really see it having that type of pushing and pulling on demand.
We've continued to see strong demand for small-cube covered hoppers for frac sand and proppants as existing drilling techniques continue to consume greater amounts of these materials to enhance extraction.
Railcars moving crude oil in our lease fleet are under long-term contracts which mitigates any short-term volatility because of spot market changes.
As a reminder the railcars in our backlog and those intended for crude oil are noncancelable.
So while we've seen some changes here in the near term in spot market oil prices it really has not had any appreciable impact on our business and we don't expect it to.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just on Meyer I think Bill you talked a little bit about a nice long-term growth pilot [ph] profile? Can you quantify sort of what the growth profile of that market's been? And I think you even mentioned competitive dynamics maybe bringing that down near term.
Can you maybe elaborate on that a little bit? Sure Allison.
So the market obviously had a pretty good growth rate in 2011 2012 and '13 and then we had a good bit of capacity come online for most of the players in the industry and a few new entrants.
And demand shrunk a little bit in '14 as a few of the major projects in particular the CREZ project in Texas wrapped up.
But as we look at the projections going forward the market fundamentals continue to be strong still a real strong need for reliability and renewal connections -- renewable connections and so we're strong on the industry and strong on the market overall.
And we can take our next question from Eric Crawford with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess switching over to the highway guardrails.
I think clearly the news of states pulling out product and seeking reimbursement has raised some concerns.
Do state DOT claims for reimbursement have any merit? Bill do you want to take that? Yes I think at this time we've made all the comments regarding the Highway Products that we want to make through the call.
Our 10-Q has got a fair amount of information in it and we would refer you to the 10-Q and I think we shouldn't speculate on unknown scenarios.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess staying on the same topic but maybe not relating to any litigation.
The testing of the ET-Plus System I understand the plan has yet to be approved the final plan.
And the dates are still up in the air.
But what kind of time frame would be required to conduct the tests not the dates but the actual amount of time needed to conduct the tests? And would you -- once a plan has been approved would you issue a press release once the plan has been established? Yes I'm not going to comment on whether we'd issue a press release or not.
It is our intention to submit to the Federal Highway Administration a proposed plan this week as requested by the Federal Highway Administration.
Once they have received that plan I'm sure that they will have questions and want to visit with us before finalizing the plan.
And only after the plan has been finalized and all the details discussed would the actual testing begin and it would be premature on my part to tell you what amount of time that testing would take given that the plan itself has not been approved at this point in time.
We'll now take a question from Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the backlog for tank cars do you have a sense for how much of this number is composed of people trying to secure build capacity for regulatory replacement? Basically we don't have a final rule but do you think the potential for regulation is already contributing to the tank car order book or is it at this point it all still -- is it all still growth demand? Justin this is Steve.
I think I said in my comments that we continue to receive orders for tank cars to transport crude oil.
And there is some who are paused before submitting additional orders as well but right now we're continuing to see strong orders and -- that seem to have a real place to go married to infrastructure development and to transport crude to various refineries.
We would not have seen -- we have not seen speculative demand for cars in this market.
I think there perhaps are some orders that maybe are hedges for customers to make sure they're in queue to receive cars once regulatory clarity is received.
I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing.
Actually I think those are pretty smart moves by our customers to get in line.
I think once the regulatory requirements are more clear you're going to see even stronger demand for tank cars in that sector.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
As a second question I was wondering if your approach to M&amp;A has changed at all with the ET-Plus lawsuit ongoing.
Are you still comfortable putting capital to work and increasing the leverage of the business before we get a resolution on that litigation? Or is the approach now a little less aggressive given how things have developed? James do you want to take that one? Sure.
Year-to-date Justin I would remind everybody that we've invested almost $720 million in acquisitions this year.
As Bill mentioned we're integrating the Meyer acquisition.
That's going very well.
I've also mentioned we're planning to invest $250 million to $300 million in manufacturing CapEx this year.
So we see -- around $1 billion is a significant investment figure for us.
These are aligned with the business model that Tim and I both mentioned the higher level of earnings platform we've established to be able to sustain growth in future years.
As Tim did mention we'll maintain a conservative approach in capital planning while we absorb these investments while we integrate the businesses and as we as you mentioned develop a better sense of clarity around the litigation.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> You said that transactional activities are becoming part of the fundamental model.
Just trying to flesh that out.
Does that suggest the appetite in the market from financial partners remains strong right now? And specifically do you have any line of sight on deals? Steve this is Steve Menzies.
No question that the capital markets are indeed very active and have heightened interest in leased railcars.
And I think the general sentiment is there's tremendous capital that needs to be invested.
It's looking to be invested in hard assets with a certain risk profile that's very consistent with leased railcars.
So we see -- Element is certainly an example of that.
James mentioned we're ready to move in 2015 with our $1 billion commitment there.
We have a number of other institutional investors who we're developing very strong relationships with looking to acquire leased railcars and have us manage them.
So I think you'll see more of those activities from us.
And as we get close to those we'll share them with you at that time.
Research Division</strong> And speaking of Element you said that you remain confident that you'll sell that $1 billion of railcars in 2015.
Any idea of cadence yet? No not really.
And typically we work with Element on how that flows off of our production line and what cars we're providing out of our fleet.
And so not at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If we assume the regulations settle on option 2 for tank car design so thicker steel head shields and all that but no ECP what do you think that does to tank car pricing? And would you expect to at least keep the current margin on that higher dollar amount? Well Steve I think it's difficult to speculate on various scenarios but I guess if I step back and take a look I can't help but to think that any of those scenarios and number 2 would certainly be the case to support rising demand for tank cars.
So we're certainly positioned to be able to respond to that rising demand.
Where pricing goes and margins we'll have to wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Is there any reason that you would give up margin on a higher-priced car I mean in a robust demand environment? I think it's going to be a robust environment and we're certainly going to try to capture as much profitability in our orders as possible.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I'll ask one more.
James any way you can help us think about Q4 impacts from Meyer amortization costs litigation costs and changeover activities in the Rail Group either individually or in aggregate? I think in aggregate -- Steve this is James -- we talked about Meyer being relatively minimal as an impact for the year.
That incorporates the onetime costs we already took in the third quarter and some even in the second quarter of about $9 million in total.
In terms of headwinds from changeovers ramp-up impact those kind of things obviously we're ramping up and changing over certain production lines.
Steve mentioned a couple of maintenance facilities that we're starting up right now so that has some costs associated with it.
That's embedded in the margin guidance I gave for fourth quarter of 17.5% to 18% which is a little lower than the run rate we've had but the mix of products we have the margin we have in our backlog is very strong.
So there's a little headwind there.
In terms of litigation expenses hard to get a real detail there.
The guidance I gave on corporate expenses is certainly higher than the run rate we've had if you back out the $6 million of onetime Meyer costs that I alluded to in the third quarter.
So you have some embedded there and as I mentioned you have some litigation-related type impact we expect within the Construction Products Group itself.
So it's kind of scattered throughout the various groups.
Again a lot of this we think is fourth quarter impact before we give any 2015 guidance.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up to that.
Thinking about the manufacturing specifically as you get past those headwinds and then given the strong mix that you talked about would you expect to see that margin recover to some degree as you go into '16 given that you obviously expect strong deliveries? Yes this is James.
We obviously are finding ourselves at a nice level of deliveries as Steve mentioned the run rate we're looking at.
We do have good pricing in our backlog of course orders we've taken in the last few quarters with the record backlog we have.
I think it's a little premature to speculate on precise margins but as Tim and I both pointed out we're all looking to grow our earnings base and that's the goal that the company has.
Yes and we continue to be impressed with how our people are driving operating leverage and efficiencies to the bottom line.
This has been a trend that's been occurring in our company for about 1.5 years to 2 years.
And so it's really difficult to estimate how much of that will actually come to the bottom line but there's really good momentum occurring in our Rail Group right now.
Our rail team has done a superb job of increasing the volume at the same time driving the operating leverage and efficiencies right to the bottom line.
Very pleased with them.
And we'll take our next question from Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess on the guidance there so it seems that -- and so if I look at the Construction Products margin guidance for 4Q 4.5 -- 4% to 5% and if I compare that to say whatever the margin was in the prior quarters or maybe even a year ago just to get a sense is the difference there would you say mostly due to the litigation? Sal as we mentioned there's clearly some seasonality that comes into play.
If you look at where margins were last year they were about 6% and this year we're seeing 4% to 5%.
So you're down a little and to your point we would certainly say that taking the one product line out of the business at this time the ET-Plus that we've stopped selling for our press release last Friday and related matters that's the impact that you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just looking ahead to the production run rate that you discussed for 2015 so you're saying that the 8 100 to 8 300 deliveries guidance for 4Q is a good run rate for '15.
Can you give some sense as to how much -- what your order flow -- what kind of quarterly order flow you're assuming is embedded in that guidance? Sal this is Steve.
We have our $6.1 billion backlog which takes us well through 2015.
So we've got very good visibility into our production plans for 2015.
And really our orders that we're taking now are actually extending our production backlog into 2016 and then some production lines into to 2017.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
So let me just ask the question a different way just to be clear.
So of your current backlog -- if I take your current backlog of roughly 52 000 and I deduct the 8 000 for 4Q that leaves about 44 000 backlog.
Should we assume that pretty much the vast majority of that delivers in 2015 is that safe to say? Our backlog is spread through '15 '16 and into '17.
And again we have very strong visibility into '15.
And again with the 8 100 to 8 300 prospective run rate for 2015 I think that kind of settles you in there pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So put differently if I take that 8 100 to 8 300 that comes out to roughly I guess 32 000 cars.
Does that 32 000 cars pretty much all come out of the backlog? I would say for the most part yes it does.
Obviously we're very sold out in 2015 save a car here or there.
But Steve is always good at being able to squeeze a little bit more out if customers come pleading with him for cars that are big customers.
And Sal to Tim's point earlier about improvements in productivity and efficiency not only does that help reduce cost but many times it increases our capacity where we're able to actually raise production volumes because of that.
So those are some of the cars that Tim says I find.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just ask one other question actually can you give us a sense for I guess in your -- in that production run rate that you're talking about for '15.
Can you give us a sense for how the mix of tank of cars in the overall deliveries differs from say '14? Yes we really don't comment specifically on breakout of our production and orders Sal so...
Research Division</strong> Up or down? Can you say up or down? Or...
No.
So sorry.
And we will now take a question from Bascome Majors from Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I had a question on the margins.
Now historically I know you had said that the tank cars will typically price a little better on a percent margin versus freight although tank got strong very quickly and those margins got to very historic highs over the last couple of years and seem to still be there.
But with the freight car market really just starting to tick up this year can you talk a little bit about the spread between the pricing you're seeing and the margins you're seeing in your backlog in those? Is the freight margin rising to a point where it looks more like tank than what it has over the last couple of years? Steve it's definitely headed in the right direction.
It is and again what we've seen here are not only extended backlogs for tank cars although we now have industry extended backlogs for freight cars as well.
As your backlog extends you have greater pricing leverage and certainly we've seen rising margins on -- across all of the car types that we're building because of the extended backlogs.
So I think that's a trend that's consistent both for freight and tank cars.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay and one on the regulation here.
You've got a bunch of customers taking delivery of the CPC-1232 car over the next few quarters and conceivably we aren't going to have clarity on that regulation until a few months from now at the earliest and what the "new" car type might be.
Are you seeing customers now that the draft rule has been out for a few months go in and preemptively sort of upgrade specs on cars that they have ordered that are going to flammable liquid service? And is that taking up the backlog on a per-unit basis organically in your tank car business? A lot of questions in there Bascome but yes we have seen customers enhance the specifications on railcars in our backlog more consistent with what some of the notice for proposed rulemaking alternatives were.
Also those companies who are taking delivery of CPC-1232 cars are also in discussions with us to address any potential modifications or enhancements to our cars as well.
So it's a very fluid situation as you well know.
I think the big users of railcars are trying to hedge their bets to make sure that they have capacity to modify as well as the ability to buy new cars to meet new specifications and we're well positioned to meet those needs in either case.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more I appreciate that.
You talked on a high level about targeting stronger 2015 earnings than your record 2014.
From the comments earlier it seems that rail is certainly going to be a very big part of that.
At a high level could you just talk a little bit by business sort of what we should think as you enter into 2015 for the outlook broadly? Sort of what could the puts and takes be either among segment or below the line? Just so we have a calibration for what you're seeing into next year.
Bascome this is Tim Wallace.
We are in the early stages of planning our budgeting numbers and our capital allocations for 2015.
We'll have a series of meetings with our business leaders over the next month to 6 weeks and then visit with our board on this.
So it's really premature for us to come up with a number.
That's why we're not able to give guidance right now.
We're just saying in discussions that I've had with all our business leaders we're giving them the challenge of setting the goal of generating a higher level of earnings than we've achieved this year.
And so everybody is focused on that and we've got a lot of really good high-quality people in our company.
And when they get focused on something I'm always amazed at the results that they deliver.
And we can take our next question from Matt Brooklier from Longbow Research.
Wanted to get an update in terms of the Georgia facility expectations for when that facility goes live and potentially if that's part of the margin step-down sequentially in Rail Group from 3Q to 4Q? This is Steve.
I'm very pleased with the progress we're making in developing our Georgia facility and the type of flexibility that's being incorporated into our asset base and production processes there.
We're doing a nice job staffing and training.
We've started to do some production there.
We're going to bring that facility up slowly.
It does have a bit of drag on our earnings margins both in the fourth quarter and 2 weeks [ph] in the first quarter and maybe in the second quarter of next year until we achieve a higher level of production.
So I would expect by certainly the second half of next year that facility would be up to a good production level and our costs would start to smooth out from there.
And Matt this is James.
I would add similar to Georgia as we mentioned the Iowa and Arkansas facilities are in the startup phase of hiring people getting ramped up those kind of things.
So you've got a couple of those issues but as we get into 2015 we'll be in production mode.
Well the Iowa facility be longer because Iowa is breaking ground.
2015.
That'll be later.
Thank you.
Okay.
So those 2 specific maintenance facilities and staffing up there that's also part of the margin headwind and the sequential potential margin step-down in 4Q versus 3Q? It is yes.
Okay.
And as we look forward and you guys talk to let's call it a 32 000 potential delivery number for '15 if orders continue to be strong if potentially we get a nice kicker from regulation and replacement demand do you think your manufacturing network let's say at the end of fourth quarter is positioned to handle all that business? Or do you think there would be the potential need for incremental investment and maybe some further expansion in terms of your production capacity? Yes good question Matt.
This is Steve.
We certainly monitor demand very closely.
We really have been I think very judicious in bringing on additional capacity as evidenced by a continual increase in our production levels.
Although our backlog has continued to grow.
And as we see demand firming up from regulatory actions or replacement or likewise we always are evaluating our capacity to see if it's sustainable and whether we want to bring on additional capacity.
The wonderful part about our company is that we've got proven flexibility.
We have multiple purpose manufacturing facilities so we are in a good position to accommodate increasing demand as long as we believe that demand is sustainable.
Okay and this goes back I think to the '12 acquisition of DMI where you acquired 3 manufacturing facilities.
I think they were mixed use facilities.
But can you talk to what is being currently produced at those facilities? Is it railcars? Is it wind tower? And is there potentially room within those facilities to handle potential incremental demand from here for railcar? Right now our facilities are really -- we're operating 2 of the facilities and they're targeted for our Energy Equipment products and they're targeted -- as well as our Railcar products.
And so the flexibility that Steve was just mentioning is a reality in those facilities.
And so based on where the demand is for the products both of the groups are working really well together to shift the production to the highest and best usage.
And we can now take a question from Mike Baudendistel with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I appreciate the detail on the expectations for the number of deliveries in the fourth quarter.
And then with the Georgia facility coming online why is the fourth quarter number a good run rate for 2015? Wouldn't there be a potential for it to increase? Steve? I think that is an increase over 2015 -- excuse me over 2014.
And as I just said in the previous question if we see opportunities to increase production further through improvements and efficiencies we will.
And if we see sustainable demand we have other flexibility in our operating platforms to continue to grow.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
I also wanted to ask you it sounded like on recent calls you talked about the Energy Equipment segment being that -- the area that you're most focused on acquisitions and that's where the few -- last few have been.
With the volatility in the energy prices recently does that change that outlook at all? Bill? I think consistent with Steve's answer earlier I think the people that are buying our products are really interested in long-term fundamentals of pricing as supposed to short-term spot market volatility.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question here is I guess on the ET-Plus.
I wanted to ask you about the litigation but since it's such a small part of the overall Trinity puzzle why is that product important for you to stay in? That's a good question and we're going to have to try to resolve and answer that question over the long term.
Our priority right now is let's navigate and get ourselves back to a good strong foundation in that business.
And then from that point forward we'll make whatever strategic decisions are necessary.
And we can take our next question from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I've just got 3 quick ones and most of my other questions have all been answered.
But can you tell us if there's any quarterly seasonality to the Meyer business? Yes Art this is Bill.
I think there would be a little seasonality mostly related to weather conditions that prohibit construction of projects particularly during the wintertime.
So I would look for a little seasonality in that business.
Art this is James.
And Bill we've talked about that in the wind tower business recently.
Installations in the winter months tend to have some -- a little bit of seasonality to them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> James on your comments about the litigation just if I can -- you can clarify or maybe make sure I understand.
You had mentioned in the case of an appeal you may need to put up some bonding related to that.
And did you mention that your insurance company said that they would provide that on an unsecured basis? That's our current indication Art.
Yes correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then finally on your guidance about Element and the deliveries for next year you kind of hedged yourself and I think Steve did too when talking about Element about you're confident that the $1 billion will be able to be delivered next year? Refresh my memory do they have the opportunity to change delivery schedules or is that something you 2 work together on and your confidence is just your ability to getting together with them and making sure you can get products to them in a particular time frame? Art this is Steve.
First of all I'm highly confident that Element has the financial wherewithal to meet their obligations and I'm highly confident that we have the railcars coming off of our production line committed to lease agreements that will meet Element's investment criteria.
So I have no reason to believe that we won't fulfill the $1 billion agreement that we have between the 2 companies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up to that I don't know if you mentioned this but is it still to be determined whether those cars will come from the lease -- the existing lease fleet or from the manufacturing side of things? That's correct.
There's flexibility in that and we evaluate that throughout the year and pose those portfolios to Element for transaction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is it feasible just as an example that you could sell a car in Q1 to your leasing business and then say Q2 3 or 4 then sell that out of the lease fleet to Element? That kind of transaction could happen as well? Definitely and that's probably more likely than it is to take cars out of our existing lease fleet.
And we will now take a question from Bill Baldwin with Baldwin Anthony.
Inc.</strong> James have any of your convertible bondholders actually converted into -- converted their bonds in exchange at par value for cash and so forth? A very minimal amount as you'll see in our 10-Q.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Are you anticipating that going forward? I don't think we can make an anticipation there.
Again there's been very -- it's been very minimal.
And from that perspective the number hasn't changed a whole lot from a retail bondholder side but I don't think we can anticipate or speculate there.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
That being the case have you all decided internally how you would handle the premium portion of that? I know you have an option to either pay cash or Trinity stock.
Have you all determined how you would do that? Yes I would say Bill that's a decision no earlier than 2018 when there's the first call or put option.
So we wouldn't give any indication of plans that far out.
Inc.</strong> So it's that far out then before that...
Yes sir.
That's the first call and put option was 12 years from when we issued the bonds in 2018.
And we'll now take a question from Tom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Believe or not not everything I was wanting to ask has been asked.
So say starting with the barge just curious on your margin guidance 13.5% to 14.5%.
All 3 quarters this year you've blown away your quarterly guidance for margins and so I'm wondering why you wouldn't have them little more favorable and in fact this guidance is the lowest of the 4 quarters from a margin perspective you've had all year so can you help us there? Yes Tom this is Bill.
And I think really the fourth quarter is just an issue of us running into a pocket of orders that are going to be produced in the fourth quarter that were taken in a little more competitive moment in time in the cycle.
And so we've got to run through those orders and get them through the system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then James I know you mentioned the 157 million share count.
I thought you meant that more for the full year given that you had 159.6 million fully diluted in Q3.
Shouldn't we use something more like that for Q4 as well? Yes the 157 million is the weighted average for the annual guidance we've provided the $4.08 to $4.16 Tom.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you don't have a Q4 -- I mean I can back into it but I didn't know if you had given a specific Q4 guidance for share count.
Not specifically there but I'm sure when you back into it the weighted average you'll be there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- I think I heard $33 million of year-to-date sales for the ET-Plus.
How does that compare year-over-year? Because I'm just wondering if with the headlines throughout the year not just recently if that had hindered sales if that $33 million was up down or flat.
Yes I mentioned in my remarks Tom that that number is consistent with last year's 9-month level as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay I missed that part.
I got to learn to write faster.
And then Steve on the -- I don't know if you have any insight but obviously you know that the third quarter saw about 8 100 tank orders and the whole tank population isn't just crude by rail.
Do you have any sense of how much of that may have been for non-CBR usage just as you talk to folks in the industry? Thanks Tom.
It's a really really good point.
Many of the tank cars being ordered today are not for crude oil transportation.
They're carrying other chemicals other pressurized gasses pressurized liquids I should say.
So the tank car demand we're currently seeing is broad-based and encompasses a number of different car types within the tank car segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I know all along you've said that orders are noncancelable but I wonder I'm just throwing out a worst-case scenario I'm not thinking this in the next few months.
But if oil really got low at what point do you maybe bring up should we defer something? Like you start to get concerned about the creditworthiness of a buyer how does that all play out if we go into a much more negative spin cycle? I mean it's just hard to tell Tom.
Again we have a contract in place with customers.
They have long-term investments being made and for the wells that are currently pumping the oil is coming out of the ground and you can't put a cork in it and stop it.
So if the need's there the need's there.
Now how much growth beyond that might start to be the question but it seems to me these railcars are being highly utilized and the business [indiscernible].
And Tom this is Tim.
The last time we experienced that was 2009 and the ethanol and everybody knows what the economic conditions were in 2009 when that occurred and it was just on a limited basis with I think one customer wasn't it? Maybe 1 or 2 customers.
Yes we did remove some cars from the backlog in 2009 as Tim talked about.
Anyway the market conditions changed.
Nothing like what we're -- the situation we're experiencing today.
Research Division</strong> Do they have money on the hook that they would have to forfeit if they sort of got ugly with you and said "I want out regardless." I mean what sort of penalty would they take? Tom in many instances we're taking advance deposits or advance payments whether it's a lease or a purchase especially when we're looking at extended production backlogs going into '16 and '17.
We want to know they're going to be there when it's time to make the cars.
And typically when they put money down it indicates their level of seriousness.
Okay Aaron it looks like -- Aaron it looks like that concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on November 5 2014.
The access number is (402) 220-0423.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Before we get started let remind you today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to eliminate -- estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performances.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity's Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Trinity Industries program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call may be recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gail Peck the company's Vice President of Finance and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries Fourth Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
This morning we're going to have 2 parts to our conference call remarks which will extend the time we allocate to prepared remarks.
First we will begin with an update on the legal aspects of the ET-Plus System.
We will then follow with our normal quarterly earnings conference call format.
Today's speakers are: Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President; Theis Rice Senior Vice President and Chief Legal officer; Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Group; Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Group; and James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following their comments we will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Tim Wallace.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
Before we provide comments about the quarter and our outlook Theis Rice our Senior Vice President and Chief legal Officer will provide an update on our Highway Products litigation matter.
This is the first time that Trinity has been involved in litigation that has drawn such media attention and we thought it would be helpful for Theis to provide an update on the call this morning.
We continue to believe Trinity will be ultimately successful in our legal defense.
We are confident in the ET-Plus System is in compliance with the controlling regulatory requirements.
I'll now turn it over to Theis.
Thank you Tim.
Before I begin I would like to reiterate that it is extremely important to our company that all of our nation's roads are safe.
As most of you know last October Trinity and Trinity Highway Products received an adverse jury verdict in the False Claims Act litigation involving the ET-Plus System.
Trinity Highway Products manufactures and markets the ET-Plus pursuant to an exclusive license agreement granted by Texas A&amp;M University System.
Our next hearing with the District Court in Marshall Texas is scheduled for March 3.
Trinity's post-trial motions continue to emphasize that the allegations in the case are wholly without merit and that the damages awarded by the jury are based on insufficient evidence.
While the District Court has ordered mediation we continue to argue that judgment should be entered in Trinity's favor and to prepare for an appeal to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals should that become necessary.
Following the adverse jury verdict the Federal Highway Administration requested that we conduct 8 separate crash tests pursuant to crash test criteria required in National Cooperative Highway Research Program Report 350.
The FHWA noted that these tests were being conducted to evaluate confirm and demonstrate performance of the ET-Plus in compliance with Report 350 crash test criteria.
Trinity submitted an ET-Plus test plan which the FHWA approved.
In December and January an independent testing agency conducted these 8 crash tests.
All 8 test articles were randomly selected by FHWA representatives from the ET-Plus inventory at the California Transportation Department and shipped directly to the independent testing facility in San Antonio Texas.
FHWA representatives state highway officials industry association representatives and media representatives attended the live tests.
On February 6 the FHWA reported that the ET-Plus passed the first 4 crash tests conducted at a 27 and 3/4 inch guardrail installation height.
The 27 and 3/4 inch guardrail height accounts for the vast majority of ET-Plus Systems installed on the nation's highways.
The last 4 tests at a 31-inch guardrail height were recently completed.
The data on these 4 tests were submitted to the FHWA earlier this week for review and processing.
With the 27 and 3/4 inch test the FHWA issued its letter expressing the ET-Plus passed all 4 tests approximately 2 weeks after receiving the test report.
When the 31-inch guardrail height test data has been fully analyzed by the FHWA they will again report their findings.
We feel confident the ET-Plus is in compliance with the regulatory requirements.
As Tim stated in his comments Trinity has never been involved in an issue that has generated as much media attention as this litigation.
We believe it would be helpful for our stakeholders to have a little background information on the person filing this case Joshua Harman and his key consultant and witness Dr.
Dean Sicking.
For many years prior to 2011 one of Mr.
Harman's companies purchased guardrail products manufactured by Trinity Highway.
In 2011 Trinity Highway learned that Mr.
Harman was copying the ET-Plus by manufacturing selling and installing his devices in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
When the Virginia Department of Transportation requested documentation concerning his devices he altered past Trinity Highway invoices to make it appear as though he had purchased the devices from Trinity Highway when he had not.
The Virginia DOT required Mr.
Harman remove his copies of the ET-Plus from Virginia's roadways.
Mr.
Harman initiated his pursuit of a False Claims Act case against Trinity and Trinity Highway shortly after he was required to remove his products in Virginia.
In conjunction with his False Claims Act lawsuit Mr.
Harman conducts numerous interviews with media representatives throughout the country.
During these interviews Mr.
Harman makes a number of accusations about the performance of the ET-Plus that are not supported by factual evidence or scientific data.
Should Mr.
Harman ultimately prevail in his litigation he stands to receive somewhere between 20% and 30% of the monetary amount awarded upon final judgment.
Dr.
Dean Sicking is a consulting expert currently on the staff at the University of Alabama Birmingham who was retained by Mr.
Harman's attorneys to assist in the litigation.
Dr.
Sicking has developed licensed and is currently receiving royalties on end-terminal products that compete directly with the ET-Plus.
We believe Dr.
Sicking stands to gain financially by discrediting the ET-Plus.
Since Trinity Highway suspended shipment of the ET-Plus last October Dr.
Sicking's competing products have experienced increased demand.
In the fall of 2014 a former student of Dr.
Sicking while at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln released a study conducted by the University of Alabama Birmingham which was highly critical of the in-service performance of the ET-Plus.
Recently this study was discredited in 4 independent peer reviews commissioned by the FHWA.
We expect Mr.
Harman and Dr.
Sicking will continue their campaign to discredit the ET-Plus and Trinity Highway ignoring facts and data that confirm the ET-Plus System complies with applicable regulatory requirements.
We maintain our position that Mr.
Harman's and Dr.
Sicking's allegations pertaining to the ET-Plus System are without merit.
We are confident the ET-Plus is in compliance with applicable regulations.
In summary the ET-Plus has been successfully crash tested more times than any other product of its kind.
We intend to vigorously defend our products and our long-standing reputation for ethical and honest business practices against allegation based on fiction rather than fact.
We are confident the ET-Plus performs within the controlling regulatory criteria when properly installed and maintained.
Today our Form 10-K will be filed.
In it we address this litigation as well as other litigation involving the ET-Plus System.
For those of you who would like more details related to my comments today please refer to our Form 10-K and a website created by Trinity Highway Products to address the facts pertaining to the ET-Plus.
This site is located at www.etplusfacts.com.
I will now turn the call back over to Tim.
Thank you Theis.
I'll now provide my comments pertaining to our earnings conference call.
I'm very pleased with Trinity's financial performance during 2014.
In 2014 Trinity established a significantly higher earnings level.
We utilized the strengths of our integrated business model to achieve this record level of financial results.
We established record annual revenues net income and EPS in 2014.
Trinity's net income increased from $375 million in 2013 to $678 million in 2014 an 80% increase.
This was a major accomplishment on the part of our whole company.
I continue to be impressed with how our employees drive operating leverage efficiencies to the bottom line.
Our businesses are creating value by leveraging their combined expertise competencies and manufacturing capacity to produce quality products for a broad range of industrial markets.
In addition I was impressed with the transactions we completed and the impact they had on our earnings.
During the year we also made significant progress in the business development area and I'm optimistic about our growth opportunities in 2015.
Our Rail Group generated strong financial results reporting record revenues and operating profit during the fourth quarter and full year.
I remain impressed with this group's ability to continually increase production levels through manufacturing conversions line changeovers and additional efficiencies.
These efforts significantly enhance the company's profitability.
I expect this level of effort and performance will continue as we progress through 2015.
Our Railcar Leasing Company delivered another quarter of full year solid results.
A portion of our earnings increase and cash flow contribution in 2014 was due to the level of railcar sales generated by our leasing business.
Transactional activities play a key role in our leasing business model and we expect these activities to continue.
I'm pleased with our Inland Barge Group's ability to shift production as market demand changes.
During the past 2 years this group has greatly enhanced its manufacturing flexibility by shifting portions of its manufacturing capacity to meet customers' needs.
This has been a major accomplishment.
The fourth quarter financial performance of our Energy Equipment Group continue to show improvement year-over-year.
Our Construction Products Group was not profitable during the fourth quarter as a result of the challenges associated with our Highway Products litigation and the unusual -- and the usual seasonal slowdown.
However their operating profit did increase 24% for the entire year.
The topside of our earnings guidance for 2015 reflects our goal of generating higher earnings in 2015 than the record level we achieved in 2014.
When you consider the rapid pace of change occurring in the economy today and the fact that we established a substantially higher earnings platform in 2014 I believe we have an aggressive financial goal for 2015.
In developing our earnings outlook for 2015 we took into account the positive momentum we have been experiencing within our company as well as the uncertainties associated with the volatile price of oil and its potential impact on our businesses.
It's early in the year and we will continue to closely monitor business conditions.
Trinity's financial and operational health remains solid.
The company has a good backlog of orders in our primary businesses which provide visibility for planning production activities during 2015.
Our backlogs contain firm orders and some of these orders are associated with capital projects that are in process and long term in nature.
The diversity and size of our backlog with our -- along with our proven ability to execute gives us confidence Trinity can navigate both the tailwinds and the headwinds our businesses are currently experiencing.
We are diligently working to build upon the strong earnings platform we have established.
To be a premier diversified industrial company we recognize the importance of sustainable earnings growth.
Our company is driven by sustainable progress and we are constantly striving to reach new levels of achievement.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
In 2014 the Inland Barge Group reported an 11% year-over-year increase in revenues and a 19% increase in operating profit.
As expected operating margin for the fourth quarter declined year-over-year due to the change in product mix.
During the fourth quarter we received orders totaling approximately $130 million resulting in a backlog of $438 million at the end of December.
I am pleased with our Barge Group's ability to respond to various demand drivers and generate efficiencies within our plants.
This group's operational flexibility is a key differentiator enabling us to enhance profitability while responding to customer needs.
During 2013 and 2014 our team shifted between several product lines to meet those needs.
This flexibility is a major accomplishment.
Inquiries for hopper barges have been steady due to strong harvests.
However orders for new 30 000-barrel tank barges have slowed as the market has absorbed a significant amount of new equipment in the last 2 years.
Demand for 10 000-barrel tank barges that serve the chemical markets remained steady but this represents the smallest segment of the tank barge market.
Our product mix during the first half of 2015 will be similar to the product mix during the fourth quarter of 2014 with similar margin expectations.
At this time we expect lower margins in the back half of 2015 due to uncertainty related to the demand in the tank barge market.
For the year the Construction Products Group reported year-over-year revenue growth and profit.
However the group reported a small loss in the fourth quarter.
While we expected lower results for the quarter due to normal seasonality actual results came in below our guidance due to the challenges in our Highway Products business related to the ongoing litigation.
The current federal highway bill expires in May of 2015.
As a result some state highway authorities are holding off on longer-term projects until a new highway funding bill is passed.
With that being said I continue to be pleased with the results in our Aggregates business.
This business has benefited from the addition of lightweight aggregates to our product portfolio and is performing above our original expectations.
The Energy Equipment Group reported record revenue for the fourth quarter and full year.
Operating profit in 2014 increased by 76% year-over-year.
Revenues increased primarily due to the acquisitions we made in 2014 coupled with higher shipments of storage containers serving the energy sector as well as increased deliveries and improved operational performance in our wind tower business.
As part of the company's overall diversification efforts Trinity acquired the assets of a number of businesses in 2014.
These businesses are moving through the integration process and we expect them to contribute positively to the bottom line in 2015.
The acquisition of Meyer Steel Structures provides Trinity a market-leading position in the North American utility steel structures market.
Market leadership is a key consideration when assessing potential acquisitions.
While the current market for utility structures is very competitive we anticipate investment in this industry over the long term will improve as the demand fundamentals are positive.
Overall I expect continued financial improvement from the Energy Equipment Group in 2015.
And now I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
I am very proud of our Rail and Leasing Group's record-setting performance in 2014.
The focused efforts of our dedicated TrinityRail team continue to enhance our efficiencies and flexibility while driving premier performance.
Our business has solid momentum moving into 2015 amid healthy railcar market fundamentals.
We continue to benefit from broadening railcar demand.
During 2014 the North American railcar industry experienced very strong demand reporting a record number of industry orders for new railcars.
Market demand drivers for new railcars shifted from largely crude by rail-related at the start of the year to more broad-based market drivers as the year progressed.
The expansion in the downstream energy markets as well as the economic recovery in North America resulted in increased demand for a broad range of railcars.
We initially received more tank car orders during 2014 than the previous year despite the pause in orders for tank cars affected by pending HM-251 regulations.
Many of the tank cars ordered in 2014 will transport refined petroleum products chemicals liquefied gases acids and fertilizers.
Once HM-251 is finalized we expect demand for tank cars to increase further.
The freight car market rebounded sharply in 2014 benefiting from a broadening of demand as the year progressed with orders supporting not only the energy markets but agricultural automotive construction and steel industries as well.
With over 600 000 railcars in the North American railcar fleet over 20 years old and over 440 000 railcars over 30 years old replacement of the aging fleet is also a key factor driving freight car demand.
At the end of the year the industry backlog stood at a record 143 000 railcars reflecting a healthy and diverse mix covering many different commodity services.
During the fourth quarter TrinityRail received orders for 17 770 new railcars.
At year-end our backlog stood at 61 035 railcars with a new record value of $7.2 billion.
This level of backlog provides TrinityRail with an unprecedented level of visibility to plan our production.
We are pleased with the diversification of our order backlog consisting of a broad mix of tank and freight car types.
Given the considerable attention paid to crude by rail some may assume that a disproportionate share of our backlog is intended for crude oil service.
In fact the vast majority of the crude oil tank cars remaining in our backlog will be delivered in 2015 and only comprise a modest segment of our production plans.
We look forward to an increase in demand for tank cars serving the crude-by-rail market once HM-251 is finalized.
Solid order inquiries thus far in the first quarter continue to reflect a broad mix of railcars.
New railcars orders taken today will result in shipments well into 2016 and for some railcar types into 2017.
Due to our extensive backlog comprised of a broad mix of tank and freight cars TrinityRail continues to benefit from extended production runs that generate high levels of productivity and efficiency.
During the fourth quarter our Rail Group set another record our eighth consecutive for quarterly revenues and operating profit with the delivery of 8 460 railcars.
For the full year we delivered a record 30 255 railcars.
In 2015 we expect railcar deliveries in the range of 32 000 to 34 000 establishing another new record level.
We continue to make investments in our business to prepare for the new HM-251 tank car regulations which are expected from the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Transport Canada on or before May 31.
TrinityRail is well positioned to meet increased demand for both new build tank cars and modifications to existing tank cars once the regulations are put in place.
During the fourth quarter our Leasing Group reported an increase in year-over-year revenue and operating profit due to strong market fundamentals and new additions to the wholly-owned lease fleet.
Rail fleet utilization remains quite high across the industry and lead times for new railcars continue to be extended.
These factors combined with stable new railcar prices continue to drive strong lease renewal rate increases and favorable renewable terms across most railcar types.
I expect that our lease fleet performance will continue to benefit in 2015 from these healthy rail market fundamentals.
Our total lease portfolio now stands at 75 930 railcars after taking delivery of 1 420 railcars in the fourth quarter.
At the end of the year 28% of the railcars in our order backlog were committed to customers of our leasing business bringing our existing lease backlog to $2 billion.
We continue to develop relationships with institutional investors interested in owning leased railcars and who would like Trinity to manage their investments.
Our strong lease origination capabilities and large diverse lease fleet make us an attractive partner for financial institutions who consider leased railcars to be good long-term investments.
With the current high level of market liquidity and interest by financial institutions I expect transactional earnings from sales of our leased railcars to continue during 2015.
In summary TrinityRail's integrated business platform is well positioned and responding effectively to strong railcar demand.
During 2014 our Rail Group and Leasing and Management Services Group delivered outstanding results.
I expect our performance to be strong in 2015 as well.
Our operating and financial flexibility continue to differentiate TrinityRail enhancing our position as a premier provider of railcar products and services.
I will now turn it over to James for his comments.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced strong results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
For the quarter the company reported record revenues of $1.7 billion and EPS of $0.86 a year-over-year increase of 32% and 19% respectively.
For the full year we reported both record revenues and EPS of $6.2 billion and $4.19 respectively.
These figures represent year-over-year revenue and EPS growth of 41% and 76% respectively.
Theis provided an update with respect to the highway litigation and related matters.
As a reminder litigation costs related to the federal case are reported in corporate and any product liability-related expenses are reported in the Construction Products Group.
As it relates to the litigation we have also previously disclosed we could be required to post an appeal bond upon the District Court's entry of a final judgment.
We remain confident we will be able to obtain such a bond if needed on an unsecured basis.
During the fourth quarter the company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock.
We determined it was inappropriate to repurchase shares while the FHWA requested crash testing was in process.
For the full year the company purchased $31.5 million of its shares leaving $218.5 million of availability under the current authorization.
We maintain a strong balance sheet with a readily available liquidity of approximately $1.6 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
I will now discuss our current outlook for 2015.
As provided in our press release yesterday our guidance for 2015 annual EPS is $4 to $4.40.
We expect the level of quarterly EPS to be relatively consistent throughout the year.
I would like to remind you that the first quarter of 2014 included significant sales of leased railcars to Element as the alliance started.
As a result we do expect first quarter 2015 EPS to be below last year's level.
Our annual EPS guidance includes the following assumptions: For the year we are assuming a tax rate of approximately 33.5% though this rate could vary quarter-to-quarter.
Due to our partial ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013 we expect to deduct between $30 million and $35 million of noncontrolling earnings in 2015.
The two-class method of accounting is expected to reduce EPS by $0.14 per share in 2015 compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
And finally please refer to yesterday's press release for the dilutive impact from the convertible notes and the weighted average share count for 2015.
Our earnings outlook for 2015 reflects the positive momentum we are experiencing.
We are well positioned with the $8.1 billion backlog in our businesses.
At the same time our businesses acknowledge some uncertainties which could impact our performance in 2015.
Our customers are assessing the impacts of oil price volatility on their businesses with some obviously experiencing negative effects while others benefiting more positively from lower prices.
We are also closely watching various labor situations in the U.S.
including those causing the temporary shutdown of oil refineries as well as interruptions of imports and exports on the West Coast.
Our guidance also includes a high level of transactional earnings due to the sale of leased railcars.
We are working diligently to fulfill this portion of our earnings expectations as a normal course of our business model going forward.
In 2015 as Steve mentioned we expect our Rail Group to deliver between 32 000 and 34 000 railcars during the year.
This will result in total revenues for the Rail Group of between $4.2 billion and $4.4 billion and an expected operating margin of 18% to 19%.
We expect our Leasing Group to record operating revenues for 2015 of $700 million to $725 million with operating profit from operations of $320 million to $340 million.
Our 2015 guidance includes approximately $1 billion of sales of leased railcars to Element which will fulfill the $2 billion strategic railcar alliance that we began in December of 2013.
We expect the timing of the sales of Element to be more weighted towards the second half of the year.
Our guidance assumes most of the leased railcars purchased by Element will be sold directly from the Rail Group.
However based on actual timing a portion of these sales could be ultimately recognized as car sales in the Leasing Group.
In 2015 we anticipate the Leasing Group will report proceeds from sales of leased railcars from the lease fleet of approximately $430 million to $450 million with profit of $115 million to $130 million.
This includes sales of leased railcars to third parties other than Element.
Transactional earnings have been a key component of our results and we expect these earnings to continue.
We have developed strong relationships with institutional investors looking to own leased railcars and the level of interest from this group remains high.
We expect our Construction Products Group to record 2015 revenues of $510 million to $540 million with an operating margin of 8.5% to 9.5%.
The decline in our 2015 expectations for this group as compared to 2014 is due to ongoing impacts from our ET-Plus litigation and uncertainty around highway funding at the federal and state levels.
Our Inland Barge Group is expected to report 2015 revenues of $620 million to $650 million with an operating margin of 13% to 14%.
As Bill mentioned there is softness in the demand for tank barges partially offsetting solid demand for hopper barges.
We expect our Energy Equipment Group to generate 2015 revenues of $1.1 billion to $1.25 billion with an operating margin of 11% to 12%.
This includes a full year of operating results from the acquisition of the assets of Meyer Steel Structures.
The acquisitions we made in 2014 were primarily within the Energy Equipment Group and are expected to produce EPS in 2015 of approximately $0.10 to $0.15.
The actual operating results are higher but amortization due to purchase price accounting of certain acquired assets reduces earnings by about $0.02 per share in 2015.
We are pleased with the integration of these businesses to date and look forward to their growth potential in 2015 and in future years.
Our acquisition strategy has been focused on industries and products with more stable long-term fundamentals and growth opportunities that can further diversify our portfolio of businesses.
The businesses we acquired in 2014 meet these objectives and add value to our company.
Corporate expenses are expected to range from $110 million to $125 million during 2015 which includes ongoing expenses related to the highway federal litigation matter.
In 2015 we expect to eliminate between $600 million and $650 million of revenue and defer between $115 million and $130 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to our lease fleet.
We expect these eliminations to be more weighted toward the first half of the year.
We expect to eliminate between $375 million and $395 million of revenues from other intercompany transactions during the year.
The net result of our revenue guidance lead to an expectation of between $7.5 billion and $7.9 billion of gross revenues and $6.5 billion to $6.9 billion of net revenues for the year representing net growth of between 5% and 10% as compared to 2014.
As it pertains to cash flow we expect the annual net cash investment in new railcars in our lease fleet to be between $55 million and $70 million in 2015 after considering the expected proceeds received from leased railcar sales during the year.
We may also consider the opportunistic purchase of existing leased railcars during the year.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditure for 2015 are expected to be between $250 million and $300 million.
As we said on our last earnings call we plan to be conservative with respect to capital allocation due to the ongoing highway litigation.
We have significant cash on hand and access to capital through our committed lines of credit at both the corporate and leasing levels.
Current economic uncertainty could present opportunities to make acquisitions at favorable valuations that add long-term value to the company.
If we see such opportunities we would certainly consider a transaction.
As a normal course of business we continue to visit regularly with our Board of Directors about our capital planning.
The upper end of our EPS guidance range reflects our goal of achieving a higher level of earnings in 2015.
As Tim indicated in his remarks we established a record earnings platform in 2014 topping our previous record set in 2013.
We recognize the importance of sustainable earnings growth and the company's business model is aligned with that goal.
Our firm backlogs provide us with production visibility in certain businesses and our balance sheet is strong.
We are well positioned in 2015.
It is early in the year and we will closely monitor changes in business conditions and their potential impacts on our diversified portfolio of businesses.
At the same time we are pleased with the opportunities ahead of us.
As we prepare for a question-and-answer session please note that Theis' remarks today pertaining to the ET-Plus litigation were very thorough.
We will have more detail in Note 18 of our Form 10-K that we will file later today.
Thus we would like for the questions today to be focused on our operations as we are unable to comment much further on the litigation or technical aspects of the crash test.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Steve Barger from KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> You have a lot of cash on the balance sheet James as you just mentioned.
Presumably a lot of embedded cash flow on the backlog given how profitable you are right now.
If you see a favorable resolution to the crash test or the litigation do you immediately resume the buyback? Do you have acquisitions in the pipeline that you can see that you're close on? I'm just trying to get a sense for -- if you become more free in terms of capital allocation what do you do first.
Yes Steve thanks.
This is James.
Appreciate the question and you being on the call today.
As we look at our capital allocation as we said we're still awaiting final results to be released on the crash test and we'll proceed accordingly.
We visit very regularly with the board as I said.
In terms of the capital allocation between internal CapEx our share price -- our share repurchase program acquisitions we certainly have those opportunities in front of us.
I think you saw last year with investment of over $700 million in acquisitions over $200 million in internal CapEx which remains important to us and some share repurchase we certainly see allocation opportunities in front of us.
There is a pipeline of acquisitions out there that we could pursue in the infrastructure space as we've talked about before.
So we would certainly see some optimism and positive momentum in that direction but we would certainly visit with the board and consider the most appropriate allocation at that time.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify one thing you said you didn't think it was appropriate to buy back shares while the crash test was going on.
When you get the test back and assuming that it's positive do you need to wait for the litigation to end to start buying shares or is that something you would do more quickly? Yes Steve I think we consider that sooner than that.
The litigation could take some time.
So as we get the results back from the crash test and that information becomes public which it hasn't been of course as we've gone through each set of crash tests that we would consider that resumption.
But again that's a conversation with our board as we take on specific activities.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I'll just ask one more and get back in line because time is short.
You mentioned that transactional earnings are going to be a big part of the story going forward.
And I know some of that is built into the guidance.
But are there any transactional earnings beyond what we already know about or normal operations built into guidance? In fact I'm asking are there any other sizable transactions that you're anticipating? Yes and this is still James Steve.
Thank you.
Yes when we look at transactional earnings we are really focused on those railcars sales both from the Leasing Group as well as directly from the Rail Group as new cars with leases come off the production line.
We have our alliance with Element.
And as we said there's a lot of institutional investor interest in the market that we're certainly pursuing.
No other non-railcar-type transactions will be built into the guidance at this time.
And we'll go next to Allison Poliniak from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on the Construction Products segment.
Bill you had talked about sort of the highway stuff.
Is it just the fact of the litigation-specific or are there I guess greater implications with ET-Plus on your other highway products that people are maybe staying away.
Could you maybe clarify some of your comments there.
Yes Allison sure.
This is Bill.
The ET-Plus is the primary driver but with it goes Standard Guardrail that's sold as part of a package.
And so a little bit of a slowdown and pause from that revenue perspective but there's nothing systemic in the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Steve you mentioned I think lease renewal rates have increased and so forth.
And obviously a lot of concern about the tank car just given where crude is today cars being parked at this point.
I mean what's your view? Is the sort of the offshoot of sort of the refined and the gas products enough to sort of maintain that long-term lease rates? Or do you see some risk as we move through the year with that if crude stays at this level? Thank you Allison.
This is Steve.
I think I said in my script that we're seeing strong demand for tank cars that carry commodities other than crude oil: pressurized gases acids fertilizers refined petroleum products other chemicals.
That really is driving the tank car market.
We've seen a weakening in tank car rates with respect to crude oil particularly in the spot market contracts that might be inside 1 to 2 years.
However long-term lease rates are remaining at historically high lease rate levels.
We typically don't participate in the spot market so these short-term rates really haven't had any meaningful impact on our business.
And overall we continue to be very pleased with renewal trends in our tank car business and we're very pleased with the lease rates as well as the tenure on a very broad number of our car types.
And we'll go next to Justin Long from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could speak about the competitive dynamics you're seeing today in the railcar market.
Steve you just gave some helpful color on lease prices just a second ago but I'm curious if you're seeing any changes in new car pricing over the last few months as well.
Steve? Actually I'm very pleased with the way new car prices have held firm.
Again the broad-based demand that we have I think supports that.
Prices for tank cars have held firm.
We've seen increases in certain freight car types.
We've had significant number of freight car orders which should continue to support demand and support good pricing there.
So overall we're very pleased with the pricing environment in the leasing business as well as for new cars themselves.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned then in the prepared remarks that inquiries have stayed strong thus far in the first quarter.
As you think out over the next few quarters and the remainder of the year what are some of the key car types that you think can drive strengthen the order book from here? Sure.
Well certainly we expect the demand for tank cars to continue to be strong as you see the downstream impact of abundant low-priced natural gas and crude oil.
In addition I would expect that following HM-251 regulation that we would see a resumption in demand for tank cars to transport crude oil.
In the freight car side again I mentioned the replacement demand for an aging fleet.
That's an underlying fundamental that remains constant.
We're seeing strong demand for covered hoppers well beyond the small cube covered hoppers that are used for frac sand and proppants.
We're seeing demand for covered hoppers for agricultural products as well as resins and other plastic pellets.
So we're very pleased with what we've seen and broadening demand in our freight car sector as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I wanted to follow-up on a point you made earlier on the tank car backlog a couple of questions there.
First is there any color you can provide on how long your tank car backlog extends today? And secondly you mentioned that there's a lot of non-crude exposure in that backlog.
Is there any more color you can provide on how that tank backlog breaks out between crude and non-crude? Justin I really would prefer not to get into that granular detail.
I think I did mention in my remarks that certain production lines extend into 2016 and '17 and our production of tank cars is well beyond the crude oil cars that we expect to complete here in 2015.
And we'll go next to Bascome Majors from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was curious on the manufacturing CapEx guidance.
Last year was -- looks like an all-time high for you.
And you guided that up roughly 25% in the midpoint.
Can you walk us through sort of where you're investing? What businesses? Where you're adding capacity? Where you're working on efficiency? And kind of how you expect that to play out from a footprint and margin enhancement standpoint through 2015 and beyond? Sure Bascome.
This is James.
And yes last year was a higher level than we had seen before.
We certainly had some projects carryover from last year into this year.
As Steve had talked about we have expanded capacity in our rail plants.
We've certainly invested in preparing for HM-251 with the maintenance facilities.
And that's been a significant investment that we think will generate nice returns for us and prepare us very well for this new environment with tank car regulation.
But across the board we always had maintenance capital expenditures at these high levels of utilization in our facilities as well as expansion when we feel that that's appropriate.
So it's pretty broad-based but a little more focused on the rail side with the capacity we have there right now.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And broadly speaking on rail I know you reopened a plant in Georgia last year kind of where is that process as far as getting up to full run rate? How far do you expect to expand your rail capacity going to 2015? Steve you want to take that? Sure.
We're ramping up the Georgia facility.
We're really pleased with the progress that our team's made there.
We've really have positioned that plant to be a multipurpose plant capable of producing several different car types as well as -- it certainly has some flexibility to expand should we see an increase in demand near term.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one other question following up another comment you made about focusing on monetizing the leasing portfolio to some extent with partners like Element.
That Element deal officially is slated to run off at the end of this year.
Do you see a potential to perhaps extend that partnership into 2016 in some official capacity or perhaps find another financial partner with a similar deal maybe not of the same magnitude but -- that could carry that kind of a relationship into next year with some visibility? Yes this is Steve again.
We're very pleased with our relationship with Element.
Our teams are working very well together.
We are in discussions to extend that relationship beyond 2015 and have every reason to believe that we can reach a successful negotiation there.
As I mentioned we have a number of financial institutions very interested in investing in railcars long term.
And with our lease portfolio and our $2 billion lease backlog we see ample opportunities to continue to work with these institutional investors on these type of asset sales.
The other key to it is we also maintained the commercial relationships with those lessees by managing those investments and it's an important part of our platform our leasing platform in building that business.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Brooklier from Longbow Research.
So I'm just trying to get a sense for the delivery guidance that you laid out for the Rail Group in '15.
I think it matches what you talked to in third quarter but can you remind us does that range -- is that inclusive of any contribution from the Georgia facility that you guys reopened in '14? Yes Matt Steve.
I believe that our guidance of 32 000 to 34 000 equates pretty comfortably to the production rate that we transitioned in the third and fourth quarters of last year.
And it would include at least a modest level of contribution from the Cartersville facility in Georgia.
And we certainly have the ability to take it further if we see the right transactions and the right demand in front of us.
Okay.
So I guess we should be thinking about that 32 000 to 34 000 as there is some Georgia contribution but there could be some flex up I guess depending on final regulations and how that could play out moving forward.
I think that's a fair assessment Matt yes.
Okay.
And then with the Rail Group margin guidance for '15 I think it's roughly equivalent to what you achieved in '14 yet your volume is going to be up at the midpoint of what we've laid out about 10%.
I'm just curious we're getting incremental volume throughput.
I think some of these start-up cost and maybe some line changeovers are kind of fading into '15 so I'm just trying to get a sense for what are some of the headwinds that with this additional 10% volume would hinder your ability to get further margin expansion at Rail Group in '15.
Sure Matt Steve again.
And I'll echo Tim's comments.
How pleased and -- when we see the performance of our operating team they continue to excel in setting targets for themselves.
And I know they look for ways to continue to improve their productivity and efficiency.
And we experienced some margin headwinds in the fourth quarter due to some product mix changes and we also had some start-up cost from our investments in manufacturing and maintenance facilities.
I think our margins in 2015 continue to reflect a strong pricing environment.
And again I expect our team to continue to perform at very high levels and no telling what they're able to achieve.
And we'll go next to Mike Baudendistel from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Related to the last question on margins I think there's a perception out there that the tank cars that you build are dramatically higher margin than the freight cars.
Is that necessarily true as you transition to a broader book of business over the next couple of years? It's really hard to say Michael.
I mean without giving the details of various car types we're seeing a very strong pricing environment for freight cars.
And I'm very pleased with the margins we're achieving there and I think the trends there continue in the right direction for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And also wanted to ask on potential for acquisitions going forward.
I mean a lot of the recent ones have been concentrated on the Energy Equipment Group do you think that's going to be -- continue to be the focus going forward? And with oil prices coming down as much as they have does that set up some maybe better opportunities for you with possibly seller's expectations coming down? This is Tim Michael reporting on that.
And we're just -- we're very optimistic with respect to acquisitions.
We don't set specific target allocations for acquisitions.
We focus on specific areas that we've identified that we think fit our business.
The acquisitions that we acquired during 2014 have a really good cultural fit with our business.
And so we'll look for manufacturing businesses that are manufacturing infrastructure-type products that are priced appropriately that would fit within the portfolio of businesses that we currently own.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one final one and that's on the Inland Barge Group.
The only statement for the backlog was it's down from the previous quarter.
Can you give us a sense for how many of those barges are moving crude oil versus other types of petrochemicals or agricultural products? Yes Mike this is Bill.
The 30 000 barrels that I mentioned in my script that is moving a little slower are primarily the crude barges.
The 10 000-barrel tend to be more of the chemical-oriented barges as Steve said kind of downstream products.
That is a smaller population of barges on the riverway but that is the population that seems to be in favor right now from an order perspective.
And we'll go next to Bill Baldwin from Baldwin Anthony.
Inc.</strong> Steve can you kind of give us some color and bring us up-to-date on what's going on with railcar manufacturing out of your Mexico -- Mexican facilities as far as the car types you're making down there? And if you can kind of what percent of your railcar manufacturing is conducted in Mexico? Yes Bill thanks for the question.
We're very pleased with the productivity and efficiencies and quality of the products that are made in Mexico.
Our Mexico facilities are making a full range of our products including tank and freight cars.
And we really don't differentiate for customers as far as whether it's a U.S.-built car or a Mexico car.
And again I couldn't be more pleased with our operating results out of our Mexico facilities.
Inc.</strong> I take it the supply chain is working well for you then in Mexico.
It is.
We have a very well-defined and extensive logistics network setup that I think presents Trinity with competitive advantage and is a key to our success there.
And we'll go next to Cleo Zagrean from Macquarie Capital.
My first question relates to orders.
Could you please share any detail on how much or if there are any placeholder-type orders for tank cars in your order book [indiscernible] in the space but the specs are to be determined upon release of final regulation.
And if you can share any insight into orders you've received year-to-date by customer type by commodity type anything would be welcome.
Sure.
We don't provide that type of granular detail on our orders.
But again all of our orders first of all have no cancellation provisions.
Secondly I think it's certainly my understanding that the orders we're taking are for very clear needs from our customers and I don't sense any speculative nature to orders at this time.
And any details into orders received year-to-date? No we will not provide that at this time.
Okay appreciate it.
My second question relates to transaction earnings.
You've shared several times that you expect this to be a sustainable provider of earnings can you help us frame how you think of them as providers of -- contribution to sustainable earnings growth? Sure Cleo.
This is James.
Thank you.
We don't provide specific detail on the level that we're anticipating this year.
You see the car sales and then we have the Element that most of which is going to come through -- come through the Rail Group.
But we consider this sustainable.
As Steve just talked about there's a lot of interest in the investment community for people to own railcars and have Trinity manage those cars.
As we talked about with our $2 billion leasing backlog with our multibillion-dollar lease fleet we already have on our books right now there's ample supply for those investors to buy railcars from Trinity and for us to manage those.
And my last question is with regards to your growth strategy within the industrial space excluding rail but perhaps stay focus on energy.
We understand that guidance for this year right does not include potential any acquisitions can you help us think as to how you may be using the financing created by your lease strategy to sustain continued growth in that and what the potential contribution to overall growth for your earnings? Sure Cleo.
Thank you.
This is James again.
Again without providing real specifics on plans that we might have.
And we've talked about we've been somewhat conservative recently for the last quarter or so due to the litigation especially with the crash test going on.
We consider that the cash flow generated from both our leasing and manufacturing business which has been and will remain very strong is able to be used for more leasing investments for more acquisition investment for our CapEx for share purchase all those types of things we've talked about.
And our executive management team and the Board of Directors look at that capital available both from a cash flow perspective as well as the liquidity we already have on hand and the potential excess of other capital markets for growth.
So Tim talked about I think where we would see opportunities for growth and where we might look at that but it's hard to get a little specific on where the cash comes from and where it may go.
And we'll take our next question from Sal Vitale from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Steve the first question is for you just about the backlog and how it pertains to the guidance that you gave of deliveries of 32 000 to 34 000.
If I look at the fourth quarter deliveries and I annualize that you're pretty much at the high end of the deliveries guidance there.
So how do I think about is there a potential for production to step down say in the first quarter or the second quarter just due to product line changeovers or how do I think about that? Thanks for the question Sal.
Our fourth quarter rail car production really reflect the delivery schedule requested by our customers at the time the orders are placed.
The lower end of our quarterly production rate steps down only slightly in 2015 and takes into account potential disruptions that could occur within the business from line changeovers and product mix associated with it.
Again our projection of 32 000 and 34 000 cars in 2015 is really based upon what we know today and where the market is today.
And we have I think the flexibility to be able to address changes in the market as those come about and I think I certainly indicated on this call that HM-251 regulations may indeed be one of those events this year that will change our perspective.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then as it pertains to current backlog is the entire 32 000 to 34 000 does that come from the backlog or is there some slots for additional orders? I might answer that question a little differently.
Approximately 55% of that $7.2 billion backlog will be delivered in 2015.
We really don't have any meaningful number of production slots available at this time.
However again changes in regulations or changes in demand may very well change our perspective and our production plans.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then the other question is I guess this is on the guidance you gave for I think if I heard this right profit of $115 million to $130 million from sales of cars out of your lease fleet.
How do I think about how much of that is due to the Element transaction or how much is for other transactions? Yes Sal.
This is James.
Without getting real specific we did point out that most of the sales for Element that we forecasted at this time will show up in our Rail Group.
So the car sale number that I gave of $115 million to $130 million a large portion of that would come from non-Element buyers of cars as well.
As we said that number could change geographically within our income statement depending on exactly which cars we slot for Element as the year goes along.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's interesting because that's a pretty healthy number there especially relative to prior years.
From looking at 2013 I think that number was about $29.5 million.
So are there any particular transactions that you have in mind right now or is it just what you think will come to you later in the year? Yes Sal just again -- great question.
Not to get real specific.
Again as Steve mentioned there is interest from institutional investors beyond what we've talked about in the past and so we'll pursue those opportunities.
But that's what we've built into the forecast at this time and feel confident about our guidance ranges as we provided it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question is on the Construction Products the results were a little lower this quarter.
And you mentioned some costs I think you said that related to the ET-Plus product though can you quantify how much in particular that was and was that a charge that you took maybe related to the suspension of delivery of those products? Yes Sal this is James again thanks.
I'm not going to get real specific.
Obviously we were lower than our guidance by about $5 million or so that we had provided in the third quarter conference call and we would certainly say that that's primarily related the things around the ET-Plus product line.
As Bill talked about there are some residual effects when we stopped those shipments in late October that bleed over to guardrail and things like that.
So there were some expenses related to that as the quarter went on.
We wouldn't clarify or exactly quantify how much was related to different pieces of that within that portion.
And we'll take our last question from Tom Albrecht from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Steve I had a question for you.
We're all trying to figure out this whole oil thing.
So let's say oil does stay down for an extended period of time.
Could it be then that the future orders for tank cars to comply with the new regulations would already be in the backlog because I think that we're all assuming there's going to be another round of orders but given that you and others kind of have a tank car of the future what's the possibility that those are already in there if everyone becomes much more bearish on crude-by-rail shipments? Thanks for the question Tom.
First of all the impact of lower oil prices in general I think has 2 sides to it.
And I see certain customers and businesses benefiting from lower-priced oil.
And obviously the explorers and producers are going to have some different takes on it.
So I think there are parts of our business and parts of the railcar market that will benefit from lower-priced oil and others that will suffer.
I don't think that the orders that we have in our backlog are necessarily oil price-sensitive.
As I mentioned virtually all of our crude oil cars in our backlog will be delivered in 2015.
And those are orders that have been placed and those orders have remained in our backlog this year and in our plans.
I think when the new regulations come out I think you're going to have people assessing that and they'll make determinations of whether they're going to modify existing cars or build new ones and they'll make those decisions.
Again I expect the net effect of those decisions to be very positive for Trinity.
Research Division</strong> I think there's about 81 000 cars potentially in question.
What's your gut say on the mix between retrofit versus replacement? Tom your facts are probably correct but I have -- I couldn't make an assessment on what that split's going to be until we see the final regulations.
We're in constant dialogue with our customers trying to understand their thinking.
I'm very pleased with the preparation our company has made.
We've been very diligent over the last year 1.5 years putting our plans in place so we can respond favorably for our customers regardless of the outcome of HM-251 but it would be very difficult for me to project what that split would be between modifications and new cars.
Research Division</strong> Can't blame me for asking.
And then James relative to your first quarter guidance so obviously you're not going to do $1.42 on a GAAP basis but if we look at Q1 of '14 kind of continuing ops x the Element was about $0.70 given that I'm kind of stating the obvious but I want to make sure before I publish my numbers given the cadence of earnings being somewhat comparable through all 4 quarters you would expect continuing ops earnings to be greater in Q1 than that $0.70 number? Yes Tom thanks.
I'm not going to get real specific.
You have your "continuing ops" you have transactional earnings from Element and others during the quarter just like we did last year.
So it's hard to have an apples-to-apples comparison given the multiple dynamics in our businesses.
But as we said I think the best way to look at it as I stated in my comments was the $4 to $4.40 during the year.
This should be relatively consistent quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe back to Steve.
One of your competitors had been approached about a cancellation not long ago and they were able to work through that and it not ending up as a cancellation.
I know your orders are noncancelable but there's a lot of dynamics that goes into that.
How you feel about the creditworthiness and what's been the long-term relationship.
Have you had anyone approach and say "Hey could we at least have a conversation about canceling some tank car orders?" Sure Tom.
Thanks for the question.
Just to be clear the orders in our backlog do not contain cancellation provisions.
We have not taken any orders out of our backlog.
In commercial relationships we have customers who ask us to accelerate orders at times we have customers who ask us to defer orders.
Many times the timing of the delivery of a railcar is to coincide with the buildout of infrastructure or the completion of a plant.
So these are very normal discussions that we would be having with customers throughout any of our markets and we will work with our customers effectively to satisfy needs and to meet our production plans as well.
So -- but I have not seen anything abnormal in this market to what we've had historically.
Research Division</strong> I would imagine -- and tell me if I'm wrong here that as some capital spending budgets had been cut that you may see leasing as a percentage grow this year only because if cash CapEx budgets are cut that the demand for the cars are still there that leasing would provide a valuable option to some of your customers.
What do you think about that statement? Tom I think as a general tenet of leasing that customers would prefer to put their capital into their operating business and lease operating assets like railcars and other things.
So our ability to sell a railcar lease a railcar and provide services to support those railcars makes TrinityRail a very attractive business partner for our customers.
This is Gail.
It looks like that concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on February 26 2015.
The access number is (402) 220-0116.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
And this does conclude today's program.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's conference.
Before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity's Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
At this time I would like to turn the conference call over to Gail Peck Vice President of Finance &amp; Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tony.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries' first quarter 2015 results conference call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Similar to the format we used on our last earnings call we're going to have two parts to our conference call remarks.
First we will begin with an update on the Highway litigation matter.
We will then follow with our normal quarterly earnings conference call format.
Today's speakers are Theis Rice Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer; Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President; Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups; and James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following their comments we will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Theis Rice.
Thank you Gail.
Good morning everyone.
Trinity Highway Products manufactures and markets the ET Plus guardrail system pursuant to an exclusive license agreement granted by Texas A&amp;M University System.
As previously reported Trinity and Trinity Highway Products received an adverse jury verdict in October 2014 in a False Claims Act case involving the ET Plus.
Following the verdict the Federal Highway Administration or FHWA requested that Trinity conduct eight additional crash tests on ET Plus.
These tests were completed in January of this year.
Following analysis of the crash test data by the FHWA and their independent expert the FHWA reported that the ET Plus met the required criteria for all eight tests.
Earlier this year the FHWA and the American Association of State Highway and Transportation officials or AASHTO together formed two task forces to examine some of the allegations about the ET Plus guardrail system.
AASHTO is an association representing highway and transportation departments in all 50 states.
The first joint task force investigated allegations of multiple versions of the ET Plus and whether the ET Plus devices used in the eight additional crash tests were representative of the ET Plus devices installed on the roadways.
On March 11 2015 the FHWA and AASHTO released the findings of the first joint task force that evaluated field measurement data collected by FHWA engineers for more than 1 000 ET Plus devices installed on roadways throughout the country.
The joint task force concluded there was no evidence to suggest there are multiple versions of the ET Plus on our nations roadways.
The joint task force also concluded that the end terminals (04:12) crash-tested at Southwest Research Institute between December 2014 and January 2015 were representative of the ET Plus devices installed across the country.
The FHWA has publicly reported that the second joint task force evaluating the ET Plus should complete its work early this summer.
Upon release of this task forces findings we will perform a thorough analysis regarding the resumption of shipments of the ET Plus to our customers.
On another note recent news articles have reported the commencement of an investigation out of the Boston Massachusetts office of the U.S.
Department of Justice.
We intend to cooperate in this investigation.
Trinity's post-trial motions continue to emphasize that the allegations in the False Claims Act case are without merit.
The District Court has ordered the parties to mediate.
We are complying with the mediation order in good faith.
In the meantime we are preparing our appeal to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals should the District Court enter a judgment on the verdict.
We will continue our approach of providing the facts and data that support the strength of our positions.
Our first quarter 10-Q will be filed today in which we provide additional information on this litigation in Note 18.
If you would like more details relating to my comments please refer to Trinity Highway's website at www.etplusfacts.com where my February 19 2015 conference call comments and my April 1 2015 stakeholder overview are posted.
I will now turn the call over to Tim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Theis.
And good morning everyone.
Trinity's financial performance during the first quarter continued to build upon the momentum we established last year.
The winter weather provided some unique challenges for our facilities during the quarter.
Our businesses responded really well to the weather issues.
During the quarter our company continued to utilize the strengths of our backlogs to drive operating leverage and efficiencies to the bottom line.
We're creating value by leveraging our combined expertise competencies and manufacturing capacity to produce quality products for a broad range of industrial customers.
Our Rail Group generated record quarterly financial results reporting strong revenues and operating profit during the first quarter.
I remain pleased with this group's ability to profitably increase production levels while making line changeovers.
Our Rail Car Leasing company delivered another quarter of solid results.
Last year in the first quarter a large portion of The Group's earnings resulted from the sale of leased railcars from our leased fleet.
This year in addition to a healthy level of earnings from sales of leased railcars the earnings from our leasing operations increased in the first quarter.
I'm pleased with our Inland Barge Group's performance during the first quarter.
The Group increased its profits level from previous quarters on a lower volume of revenue.
In addition the barge backlog increased during the quarter as a result of the Group's manufacturing flexibility.
The first quarter financial performance of our Energy Equipment Group continued to improve and our Construction Products Group returned to profitability during the quarter.
Overall I'm pleased with our financial performance during the first quarter.
During the short term we are focused on generating higher earnings this year than the record level we established last year.
We're continuing to operate our company on lean principles as we look for opportunities to conduct railcar leasing and other asset transactions that generate cash and provide earnings.
From a longer term growth point of view we continue to search for acquisition opportunities in markets that have products services technologies and competencies that fit within our portfolio of industrial manufacturing businesses.
Trinity's corporate business model is designed to generate value through our ownership and management of industrial companies that benefit by being part of Trinity.
Our 2014 asset acquisition of Meyer Steel Structures is a good example of a company that fits well within our portfolio.
As we begin the second quarter Trinity's financial and operational health remain solid.
Our 2015 earnings outlook reflects the positive momentum we're experiencing within our company as well as the benefits of having solid backlogs in our primary businesses.
Our accomplishments are due to the capabilities and expertise of our dedicated employees our ability to respond effectively to shifts in demand and our ongoing commitment to quality and customer service.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim.
And good morning everyone.
During the first quarter the Inland Barge Group reported a 12% year-over-year increase in revenues and a slight increase in operating profit.
I'm pleased with the Group's performance in the first quarter.
During the first quarter we received orders for new barges totaling approximately $280 million resulting in a backlog of $565 million at the end of March.
This is the highest backlog reported by the Group in more than six years.
Our ability to capture a large number of orders during the quarter is due to our operational flexibility.
Order patterns in the industry shifted from liquid barges to dry barges.
Our Barge Group's operational flexibility is a key differentiator enabling the Group to enhance profitability while responding to customers' needs.
Inquiries for hopper barges continued at steady levels during the first quarter due to the strong harvest last year and expectations for another solid harvest this year.
Demand for 30 000-barrel tank barges which carry crude oil remains weak at this time.
Demand for 10 000-barrel tank barges continues to reflect expectations for expansion in the chemical markets along the Gulf Coast.
As a result of the shifting market demand we anticipate lower margins as we move through the year.
Moving to the Construction Products Group.
I am pleased that this group returned to profitability in the first quarter.
Year-over-year revenues were essentially flat.
As a reminder the first quarter of last year included a gain of $11.2 million related to an asset disposition.
These provided an update of our Highway litigation matters which continue to impact results in our Highway Products business.
In addition our Highway business is also affected by the pending expiration of the current Federal Highway Bill in May.
Partially offsetting these negative headwinds is strong performance of our Aggregates business which is benefiting from a robust Southern U.S.
market.
In the first quarter we completed another acquisition of lightweight Aggregate assets.
The acquisition strengthens our ability to serve our customers.
The Energy Equipment Group reported another record level of revenues and profit during the first quarter.
We are pleased with the performance of the segment but do expect some variability within the segment's performance from quarter-to-quarter as a result of the product mix and volume.
The integration of the businesses we acquired in 2014 continue to progress smoothly.
The Meyer purchase is a great example of an acquisition that have generated synergies and enrichment value has tremendous cultural fit and positive long-term demand drivers (11:26).
Market conditions within the segment vary by product (11:30).
Lower oil prices have created headwinds for several of our business units.
We remain positioned to respond to changes in demand should we see an increase in oil prices.
The current market for utility structures remains competitive.
The long-term investment projections for this industry show positive fundamentals.
We are well positioned to respond to increased transmission infrastructure spending in North America.
Our wind tower business is performing at a high level due to long production backlogs.
The wind industry continues to make advancements in reducing the installed cost for wind farms (12:02).
In closing our business is responding effectively to mixed demand conditions in a number of their markets.
Our long-term outlook for energy and infrastructure investment in North America remains positive.
And now I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
I continue to be very pleased with the strong operating results generated by our dedicated Trinity Rail team and the benefits of our integrated business model.
I am also excited about our operating and financial flexibility which allows us to meet shifting market and customer demand.
Our achievement in these areas drove record performance levels during the first quarter in our Rail and Leasing Groups.
Going forward broadening railcar demand continued expansion in downstream energy and chemical markets and an aging North American railcar fleet support solid long-term railcar demand fundamentals.
The pending new tank car regulations we believe will also contribute or increase demand for tank cars and maintenance services.
Our industry-leading backlog comprised of a broad mix of railcars enabled extended production runs that positioned our Rail Group to generate high levels of productivity and efficiencies.
This contributed to our outstanding financial performance during the first quarter.
Our Rail Group set another record our ninth consecutive for quarterly revenues and operating profit.
We also delivered a record 8 710 railcars during the quarter.
As a result of productivity improvements we now expect to deliver between 33 000 and 34 500 railcars in 2015.
Trinity Rail is also well positioned and prepared to an increased demand for newly built tank cars and modifications to existing tank cars once HM-251 regulations are finalized.
During the last two years we invested significantly in our business to handle the regulatory compliance requirements and anticipated modification requirements of our fleet and those of key customers.
Our current expectation is that we will have regulatory clarity in mid-May.
We continue to believe HM-251 regulations will be a demand catalyst for tank cars.
However it may take some time for customers to evaluate the impacts of the ruling and assess their business needs.
As a result while it is certainly possible that some orders maybe imminent pending finalization of the rule we think it is more likely that industry orders will be placed over several subsequent quarters as our customers complete their assessments.
As we mentioned last quarter tank cars destined for crude oil service comprised a nominal portion of our backlog and those are scheduled for delivery in 2015.
A number of these tank cars are being built to a higher standard than as currently required and may closely align with the anticipated standard in the new regulations.
Industry orders in the first quarter reflect broad-based market demand downstream petrochemical and chemical markets growth and fleet replacement demand.
Trinity Rail received orders for 4 865 new railcars resulting in a backlog at quarter end of 57 190 railcars with a value of $6.8 billion.
We're pleased with the diversification of our order backlog and the orders we received in the first quarter both of which reflected broad mix of railcars for the energy chemical agricultural and other consumer-related industries.
Given the healthy relative pace of inquiries in the last few quarters which has continued into the second quarter of 2015 we remain confident in the current railcar market fundamentals.
Trinity Rail's backlog at the end of the first quarter gives us excellent visibility to plan our operations for the next few years.
The strength of the railcar market continues to have a positive effect on our Leasing Group.
Revenue and profit from operations which excludes railcar sales increased year-over-year by 11% and 29% respectively.
New additions to the wholly-owned lease fleet high fleet utilization levels and strong increases in lease rate pricing during the first quarter all contributed to a record quarterly performance.
Our lease fleet continues to experience strong demand with good renewal success.
Fleet utilization remains over 99%.
Our total lease fleet now stands at 76 170 railcars after taking delivery of 2 240 railcars offset by the sale of 2 000 leased railcars during the first quarter.
At the end of March 33% of the railcars in our order backlog were committed to customers of our Leasing business bringing our leased railcar backlog to a record $2.3 billion.
Our strong lease origination capabilities combined with our position as a leading railcar manufacturer and owner of a large diverse lease fleet make us an attractive partner for institutional investors who consider leased railcars to be good long-term investments.
The recent three-year extension and increase in the size of our leasing warehouse facility to $1 billion provides additional financial flexibility to expand new lease originations and enhances our commercial positioning.
We continue to have ongoing conversations with institutional investors interested in owning leased railcars and having Trinity manage and service their investments.
In summary Trinity Rail's integrated business platform is well positioned and responding effectively to healthy railcar demand.
The Rail Group and Leasing and Management Services Group delivered exceptional results during the first quarter.
I expect our performance to be strong throughout the balance of 2015 as well.
Our operating and financial flexibility continue to differentiate Trinity Rail enhancing our position as a premier provider of railcar products and services.
I'll now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced our results for the first quarter of 2015.
For the quarter the company reported revenues of more than $1.6 billion in earnings per share of a $1.13 compared to revenues in EPS of $1.5 billion and a $1.42 last year.
Last year's first quarter results included $0.75 per share of earnings from the sale of leased railcars compared to $0.18 per share from the sale of lease railcars in this year's first quarter results.
During the first quarter our EPS excluding the sales of leased railcars reflected strong operating performance across most of our businesses.
During the first quarter we invested approximately $300 million of net capital into several areas that we believe will produce attractive returns for the company.
We use our cash-on-hand to make these investments resulting in a lower cash balance at the end of the quarter than at year-end.
I will highlight a few of these investments now.
During the first quarter the company repurchased 720 000 shares of its common stock for $25 million.
This leaves $193.6 million of availability under our current authorization.
During the quarter we exercised an early purchase option for one of our sale leaseback transactions called TRL I which was originally executed in 2001.
This portfolio of leased railcars was previously reported off balance sheet.
We paid approximately $120 million to acquire the portfolio of 2 800 railcars.
The market value of these railcars should we sell or secure them to get future indebtedness is well in excess of our purchase price or their net book value.
This investment reduces our financing cost and increases our flexibility to refinance or sell the railcars at a later date.
The purchase of these railcars is reflected in our leasing capital expenditures for the quarter.
The reduction in rent expense associated with this purchase was included in our previous 2015 earnings guidance.
In addition to the purchase of the TRL I portfolio we invested approximately $210 million in leased railcar additions to our own leased fleet during the quarter.
This investment was partially offset by $157 million of leased railcar sales.
Leased railcars remained a very good investment for us offering attractive returns with strong cash flow while the railcars are in our fleet and the opportunity for additional profit recognition from sales to third parties including institutional investors.
Also during the first quarter we acquired the assets of three lightweight Aggregates plants in the Southern United States for $46 million.
We continue to build out the lightweight Aggregates platform within our Construction Products Group and now have an expanded presence in this market extending from California to Alabama.
Finally we invested $54 million in CapEx during the quarter across a number of our manufacturing businesses and at the corporate level.
We did not add any debt during the first quarter and in fact repaid approximately $70 million.
At the end of the first quarter our available liquidity stood at approximately $1.40 billion.
Shortly after the close of the quarter our liquidity position was further enhanced to $1.67 billion with the increase in our leasing warehouse facility from $475 million to $1 billion.
In addition to increasing the facility we extended this maturity to three years a year longer than the traditional two years providing us enhanced flexibility to finance our record $2.3 billion backlog of leased railcars and the future lease originations.
Our warehouse facility provides us with a low cost and flexible source of financing between the time of production and the ultimate sale or financing of the leased railcars.
As provided in our press release yesterday our updated guidance for 2015 annual EPS is $4.10 to $4.45.
We expect the level of quarterly EPS to be relatively consistent throughout the remainder of the year.
Our earnings outlook for 2015 reflects the positive momentum we are experiencing in our businesses.
We remain very well positioned with the combined $7.8 billion backlog in our railcar Inland Barge and wind towers businesses.
At the same time our businesses are navigating through some uncertainties that could impact our performance in 2015 one of which is the price of oil.
Our guidance also includes earnings from the sale of leased railcars.
As I said previously these earnings totaled $0.18 per share during the first quarter and includes profit recorded in the Rail and the Leasing Groups.
Earnings generation from the sale of leased railcars is expected to be a normal part of our business model going forward.
In 2015 as Steve mentioned we expect our Rail Group to deliver between 33 000 and 34 500 railcars during the year an increase from our previous guidance range.
This will result in total revenues for the Rail Group of between $4.3 billion and $4.5 billion and an expected operating margin of 18% to 19%.
We expect our Leasing Group to record 2015 operating revenues which excludes leased railcar sales of $690 million to $710 million with operating profit from operations of $315 million to $335 million.
Our 2015 guidance includes approximately $1 billion of sales of leased railcars to Element which will fulfill the $2 billion strategic railcar alliance that we began in December 2013.
This total was $127 million in the first quarter bringing the cumulative total to $1.1 billion.
As we previously stated we expect the timing of the sale to Element to be more weighted towards the second half of the year.
In 2015 we anticipate the Leasing Group will report proceeds from sales of leased railcars from the leased fleet of approximately $685 million to $710 million with profit of $160 million to $175 million.
This compares to our previous annual guidance ranges of $430 million to $450 million and $115 million to $130 million respectively.
Our guidance includes sales of leased railcars to Element and other third parties.
While the guidance for the level of leased railcars sale activity reported in the Leasing Group has increased the total level of leased railcar sales and profit in 2015 which includes leased railcars sold directly from the Rail Group is substantially unchanged from our previous guidance.
The level of interest in acquiring leased railcars remained high among institutional investors.
We expect our Construction Products Group to record 2015 revenues of $540 million to $560 million with an operating margin of 8.5% to 9.5%.
We continue to experience headwinds associated with ongoing ET Plus litigation and uncertainty around Highway funding at the federal and state levels but are pleased with our performance and opportunities within our Aggregates businesses.
Our 2015 guidance now incorporates the lightweight Aggregates acquisition that we made in the first quarter.
Our Inland Barge Group is expected to report 2015 revenues of $675 million to $700 million with an operating margin of 14% to 15%.
As Bill mentioned there is softness in demand for tank barges but a strengthening in demand for hopper barges which has increased the backlog and provided better production visibility through the end of 2015.
We expect our Energy Equipment Group to generate 2015 revenues of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion with an operating margin of 11% to 12%.
This includes a full year of operating results from the 2014 acquisition of the assets of Meyer Steel Structures.
Corporate expenses are expected to range from $110 million to $125 million during 2015 which includes ongoing expenses related to the Federal Highway litigation and related matters.
In 2015 we now expect to eliminate between $820 million and $870 million of revenue and defer between $150 million and $170 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to our lease fleet and the timing of new leased railcars manufactured by the Rail Group that are expected to be sold to institutional investors.
We expect these eliminations to be slightly more weighted toward the first half of the year.
As a reminder we eliminated $259 million of revenue and deferred $48 million of profit in the first quarter.
We expect to eliminate between $375 million and $395 million of revenues from other intercompany transactions during the year.
Our annual EPS guidance also includes the following assumptions; a tax rate of approximately 33.5% but this rate could vary quarter-to-quarter; the deduction of between $30 million and $35 million of non-controlling earnings due to our partial ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013; a reduction of $0.15 per share due to the two-class method of accounting compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement; and the dilutive impact from the convertible notes as disclosed in yesterday's press release.
As it pertains to cash flow we expect the annual net cash investment in new railcars in our lease fleet to be between $105 million and $125 million in 2015 after considering the expected proceeds received from leased railcar sales during the year and the purchase of TRL 1.
During the second quarter we expect to prepay in full approximately $340 million of leasing debt that we issued in 2008 known as TRL VI which is secured by a diversified portfolio of 8 700 railcars.
As a result we will lower financing cost and create flexibility to use this portfolio of railcars in future financings or sales to institutional investors.
The market value of the railcars in this portfolio is well above the loan amount.
This loan repayment was included in our previous earnings guidance.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2015 are expected to be between $250 million and $300 million.
We have significant cash on hand and access to capital through our committed lines of credit at both the corporate and leasing levels.
As we've said previously current economic conditions could present opportunities to make acquisitions at favorable valuations that add long-term value to the company.
The upper end of our EPS guidance range reflects our goal of achieving a higher level of earnings in 2015.
We recognized the importance of sustainable earnings growth and the company's business model is aligned with that goal.
Our firm backlogs provide us with production visibility in our major businesses and our balance sheet is strong.
We are well positioned in 2015.
As we prepare for a question-and-answer session please note that Theis' remarks today pertaining to the ET Plus litigation were very thorough.
More detail can be found in Note 18 of our Form 10-Q that we will file later today.
We will not comment further on the litigation so we ask that your questions today focus on our operations.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
We'll first move to Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
James just trying to reconcile sort of the guidance that you've talked about with your comment about how it should remain – the EPS levels should remain fairly level this year.
It sounds like that the Element and maybe it's more of the leasing the Element and then some of the eliminations at the back half would be stronger could you help me walk through sort of the quarterly variation where I'm thinking that's strong? Yeah Allison thank you.
This is James.
And as we mentioned there's a few pieces or a few moving parts to put together.
I think you've summarized it pretty well.
What we intend to imply is the earnings for the second third and fourth quarter are going to be relatively consistent with each other.
The first quarter was $1.13 and with our guidance of $4.10 to $4.45 we expect earnings to be relatively smooth.
As we've always talked about that could change quarter-to-quarter based on sales of leased railcars exactly which cars we eliminate some of those type things what our volume is in certain businesses.
But our implication there is that earnings will remain relatively steady.
We did say eliminations are only slightly higher in the first half of the year where Zelman (31:41) will be a little higher in the back half of the year so putting those pieces together results in relatively consistent earnings.
Okay.
Great.
And then just your comment about the institutional interest in railcars I know you said it remained strong but any changes in buying pattern or interest there just because of sort of crude falling apart at this point? Allison this is James again.
And I think Steve and I both mentioned there remains strong interest in this asset class of railcars.
Beyond that I don't think that we would say that there's been necessarily any shifts that we would report so we continue to have very good dialogue and a lot of interest in the market.
Okay.
And then just last question on the Energy side the Energy Equipment the Storage business I guess is a little bit more tied to the crude but just any thoughts on what you're seeing on crude related outside of Rail in terms of your business and how you're thinking about that as we move through the year? Yeah Allison this is Bill.
As I said in my conference call we're certainly seeing some headwinds related to the crude side and a couple other particular businesses within the Energy segment.
We're fortunate to have other businesses in the Energy segment that really do a nice job of offsetting it.
So I think particularly storage market it's going to be pretty competitive right now.
Oil field products are extremely competitive and low in volume right now.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> First on capital allocation.
You did buy $25 million worth of stock in the quarter good to see that resumption.
Obviously the stock is under a lot of pressure this week.
Do you expect to remain active on the authorization in 2Q? Yeah Steve this is James.
I think when we look at our capital investment you saw that it was very broad based.
In the first quarter we had an acquisition.
We obviously continue to pay the dividend.
We did resume our share repurchase program.
We bought in a portfolio of leased railcar.
So I think you've seen that we've continued to invest our capital across a broad base of opportunities.
As you know we don't specifically talk about plans we might have in the future or what we may be currently thinking about in terms of things like share repurchase.
Certainly resuming that in the first quarter we were pleased to be able to do that.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Yeah.
And James you have a lot of cash flow that's going to be unlocked from the backlog in the next year or two obviously a lot of existing liquidity that you've kind of bolstered if anything in the quarter.
From a capital allocation standpoint can you talk about are you seeing high return internal investments that you want to pursue or external opportunities to mitigate future cycles while this one is so strong? Just kind of what's the thought process in terms of how you're – all the liquidity? Sure Steve.
I think it's all of the above.
This is James.
I think when you look at all the opportunities we have we've always said and continue to say as I mentioned today investing in leased railcars is a very attractive investment for us and we did that in the first quarter and with the $2.3 billion backlog obviously some of that will come into our fleet some could get sold to institutional investors.
We're very pleased with the returns that those railcars provide for us as well as cash flow.
We are very pleased with internal CapEx initiatives and – at the manufacturing level the returns we're able to achieve through the process we go through and investing in our own facilities whether it would be for efficiency or capacity.
You've mentioned acquisitions.
We certainly continue to as Tim talked about look for acquisition opportunities at good valuations for both the short term and more importantly for the long term.
And I think the other thing you've seen us do is we talked about in the first quarter and we announced we plan to do in the second quarter is paying off some debt or in the first quarter's case a sale leaseback transaction.
These are savings on the financing side for us.
It's a good use of our capital right now.
It certainly strengthens the balance sheet.
So I think really it's an all the above strategy.
We're going to look at each quarter the senior management executive management works with our board.
We look at all the opportunities in front of us and with as you mentioned the balance sheet we have in the strong cash flows we have a lot of opportunity.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for that.
I understand you don't want to talk about the legal stuff right.
I just have a technical question.
All the facts and outcomes have been on your side so far in the civil case.
So the question is does mediation have to conclude one way or another before a civil penalty is applied? And I'm just trying to give a sense for when the appeals process can start.
So you can move past this.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Theis you want to take that? Yeah.
Good question.
No.
There is no deadline for the mediation.
There is no condition that has to take place to continue the mediation or stop the mediation.
At this point we're just proceeding with the order and good faith and we're preparing our appeal on the eventuality that the court entered judgment on the verdict.
Inc.</span></strong> So the two things aren't linked you could see the civil penalty applied at any time basically? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
I'll get back in the line.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Justin Long with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> One thing that you've emphasized recently is the non-crude tank car exposure in your backlog.
So first I was wondering if you could talk about the specific commodity groups that are driving this non-crude tank car demand? And second with a pretty strong non-crude tank car backlog today what are your thoughts about the opportunity for incremental orders from here and the sustainability of that backlog? Yeah.
Justin this is Steve.
Thank you for your question.
It's not just tank cars in our backlog it's also freight cars in our backlog and those are serving really downstream petrochemical and chemical markets and agricultural markets as well.
We have received a fair number of tank car orders beyond those serving the crude oil market as well.
We're very pleased with the diversification that we're seeing in our orders.
And again we see a broadening of demand on our four railcars and in our inquiry levels as well.
And I think that'll sustain certainly through the second quarter as we look today.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Second question I had – I wanted to ask about M&amp;A has anything changed on your view there in terms of your comfort level committing to a sizable acquisition if the right opportunity presented itself? I'm just curious if you're more open to deploying capital for an acquisition given the positive results of the guardrail tests or is the approach in the near-term still a bit more conservative? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Justin this is Tim.
We look at acquisition opportunities of all sizes.
As I said we're looking for businesses that have products and services and technologies and competencies that enrich the existing businesses that we have in our portfolio.
We do not have any type of moratorium in place on acquisitions.
It's purely an opportunistic viewpoint that we have and then we have other sources of opportunities for utilizing our capital.
So we don't set any target of allocation for acquisitions.
We basically just have a number of companies that have met our criteria and then we watch for opportunistic times as to when it makes sense to pursue these companies.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But you would feel comfortable allocating capital to an acquisition today even without a final resolution on the guardrail litigation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Like I said we don't have any type of restrictions that we placed on ourselves or our board has placed on ourselves.
It's all about the return on the capital and opportunistic situation that we're confronted with.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And I'll just ask one more and then hop back in the queue but I wanted to ask if there was any change to the number of tank cars inflammable service that you either wholly or partially own in the lease fleet today? Justin this is James.
Virtually not.
That has been relatively steady the last few quarters.
Inc.</span></strong> So still around – is it 11 000 units or so? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I appreciate the time this morning.
Thank you Justin.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we will move to Eric Crawford with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
On cash working capital was a bigger use of cash relative to last year in the quarter.
Is that just the timing issue? Any color there would be helpful.
And related to that how do you expect cash from operations to compare to your net income for the year? Yeah.
Eric this is James.
Thanks for that question and seeing that on our balance sheet and the cash flow statements one thing you will note is clearly with the higher deliveries in the Rail Group record deliveries in the Rail Group and nice volume across our businesses with the $1.6 billion of revenue that's going to require a somewhat higher level of working capital.
It was incrementally higher.
Part of it is certainly timing.
You will see the one note (41:14) when you look at the components of working capital the receivables were a little bit higher.
We had several customers make payments at year end.
And in the first quarter it kind of went back to the normal the normal timing.
So I think I would put that more on timing than anything else.
We don't have guidance for working capital or operating cash flow for the year because it is difficult to assess that based on timing.
Understood okay.
That's helpful thank you.
And I guess not sure if this was totally addressed but following up on Steve's question the $25 million in repurchases was lower than I would have thought.
Was that at all a function of a shorter time window or any detail on some puts and takes there would be helpful? Yeah.
Eric without a lot of detail I think you did hit on one factor which is a shorter time window.
We don't buy shares as we prepare to announce our results for the quarter and given at the end of the fourth quarter we're not reporting until mid-February.
Your days left in the quarter are a little bit shorter than you would have seen maybe in the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter of last year for example but that could vary quarter-to-quarter.
So not a specific reason for that but I think you've hit on one reason that could be a part of that.
Okay great.
And then lastly the increased railcar delivery guidance that you provided is still below what I would expect you to realize given nearly 9 000 deliveries in the quarter.
I'm not sure if I missed it in the remarks but why is the cadence of deliveries forecast to decline from 1Q at midpoint and implies a small decline? Yeah this is Steve Eric.
Our first quarter railcar production reflected the delivery schedule requested by our customers.
I think the low end of our annual guidance range implies a quarterly production rate that steps down a couple hundred cars in 2015 and taken into account potential disruptions that could occur within our business.
But I think what we have planned would be fairly smooth throughout the rest of the year and I'm confident of the range that we've provided to you.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Sal Vitale with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Good morning all.
Good morning.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Steve just to follow-up on the last question.
So just to make sure I got that right.
So in that 32 000 or rather I'm sorry 33 000 to 34 500 range of deliveries are you baking in you said some potential disruptions you may face? Well when I talk about disruption Sal I'm talking about of border crossings when we're bringing cars up from our Mexico facilities.
We find that component supply is very very tight right now.
So we just want to be cautious in our guidance and provide you a broad range.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But then it is feasible possibility that it could be above the 34 500 correct? Right now our range offered is 33 000 and 34 500.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So then on the backlog can you provide any color as to how much of the backlog in units delivers in 2016 at this point? Sal we typically don't provide breakout of our backlog into 2015 and 2016.
But I'm very pleased with the visibility we have into our production plans to go well into 2016 and some of our lines actually go into 2017 as well.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then of that guidance range of 33 000 to 34 500 does that all come from the backlog at this point or there are some slots that you'd plan to fill with orders over the next quarter? Yeah.
It substantially comes from our backlog.
We have a few production slots available yet in 2015 but not of any significant measure.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you on that.
And then just a quick question for you James on the guidance.
Just want to get a picture here.
If I look at the guidance you gave on the profit on proceeds of sales of cars that are at the leased fleet you said that increased from a range of $115 million to $130 million last quarter to now it's $160 million to $175 million is that right? Yes that is all we said.
And what we also said was a lot of that as we've talked about before is geography whether it comes directly out of the Rail Group.
The current forecast would show a little more coming out of the Leasing Group than we previously had guided.
The total however between those two and overall earnings from these railcar sales embedded within our $410 million to $445 million of guidance is substantially unchanged.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just the last question.
If I look at the change in the number of cars in the leased fleet and that's both wholly owned and partially owned I think it increased I think I had written down here about 240 cars.
And I was just trying to reconcile that to what you said earlier.
I think you said you sold 2 000 leased cars during the quarter and then did you say that you've delivered about 2 200 into the fleet? Yeah.
Sal there's a few moving parts which I'm sure happy to help walk you through.
To your point we did add deliveries into the fleet a little over $200 million.
We sold some cars out and then remember also we brought into on balance sheet the TRL I portfolio that we purchased in the first quarter for $120 million.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
That was 2 800 cars correct? Yes.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
So you disclosed that your sales to Element were about $130 million in the first quarter and certainly said that it will be heavier in the second half of the year.
It looks like to get to your $1 billion that you say you're still going to hit by the end of the year you need about $300 million a quarter sold to them.
Can you just walk us through kind of what's driving the cadence of that timing there and maybe which quarters will see the lumpier ones with the higher end versus lower end just for modeling purposes et cetera? Bascome this is James.
I think it's hard to give a lot of cadence.
It's simply in our conversations with Element where we assume they are at this point and we've said they're a little more weighted towards the back half of the year that's what we have said previously as well.
To your point it does imply several hundred million dollars a quarter.
As we go through the rest of the year we are confident in completing the $2 billion this year but it's going to vary quarter-to-quarter on the cars we have available coming off our production line the cars from our lease fleet that we will sell directly to Element the diversity of those fleets and those kind of things.
So hard to give specific cadence and that's also why as we say while we have relatively consistent quarterly EPS guidance we really prefer to lean on annual guidance because the timing of that can shift from quarter-to-quarter.
Is the light start and heavier and is it a function of just what you've got available by car type depending on the quarter or is it something more than that? I think it's a myriad of factors.
I think as I've mentioned what's off the production line what's coming out of our lease fleet it's just in our conversations and our work with Element putting their portfolio together for them.
All right.
And – I'm sorry go ahead.
Bascome this is Steve.
We also want to work properly with institutional investors to make sure that they have diversified fleets so that we do work with things coming off our production line and the balance is coming out of our portfolios.
All right.
Well thank you for that.
I know it's only April but there seems to be a disconnect with some investors year-over-year 2016 prospects versus some of your peers.
I know that you'll see a year-over-year earnings and cash flow headwind from Element relationship assuming that it doesn't renew at the same level next year in 2016 as is expected to be $1 billion this year.
But I mean is there any way you can talk high level about some of your markets as you see them ending up or in the back half of this year and entering 2016? What do you see as the opportunities what do you see as the headwinds and I guess I'll just stop at that? Bascome this is James.
I think it's hard to talk too much about 2016.
Now as you said it is April.
Well we certainly have portions of our $7.8 billion backlog that extended into 2016 as Steve and others have mentioned.
That gives us some visibility but it's hard to get too detailed about that.
As Steve and I both talked about we do have ongoing conversations with institutional investors to maintain sales of leased railcars contributing to earnings as a normal part of our business model.
We have a lot of capital investment opportunities and our goal is to have sustained earnings growth as the focus of the company.
All right.
Well thank you for the time this morning.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thank you.
I was wondering whether you could comment on your thoughts on the recent announced sale of GE's Rail fleet.
How do you see that impact the market your operations and the day-to-day lease portfolio as well as the transactional opportunity? Thank you.
Good morning Cleo.
This is Steve.
I think you're aware that GE Capital has basically put substantially all of its assets up for sale and the GE Rail business is certainly part of that as well.
That business has been for sale for I don't know for a number of years.
It could be an attractive investment for any number of financial institutions.
We won't comment particularly about our interest but it's certainly an important factor in the market and has a substantial portfolio with a number of customer relationship.
So it should be an attractive asset to a potential investor.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you see that maybe helping rates as a result of consolidating markets but maybe adding competition for your transactional opportunities since there is a big chunk of assets out for sale? Yeah.
I can't think of what impact that would have on lease pricing – lease rates today.
But I will tell you that there is substantial capital available looking to make investment on leased railcars and well beyond what I think of purchase price for that business could possibly be.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And that actually ties into my next question which is sort of a point you made about continued high investment in vested interest from a financial side.
Could we look at your guidance for transactional earnings as conservative? You have maintained it since the beginning of the year.
Yeah.
Cleo this is James.
We've not given specific guidance on that portion of our earnings.
It's embedded within our increased guidance and we gave you where we were in the first quarter and said that at least with Element it's a little more weighted towards the back half of the year but I think it's just embedded as a part of our overall guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then lastly could you please talk about opportunities in the energy industrial area of your portfolio where lower crude prices are a benefit where you could see growth either in your current portfolio or from M&amp;A? Thank you.
Cleo this is James.
I think as Tim pointed out we'd certainly see attractive investment opportunities across a lot of things.
And to your point M&amp;A could be a part of that.
The energy and infrastructure sector can certainly be a part of that.
I think it would be hard to comment on specific opportunities or industries but things that fit well with our industrial portfolio would be of interest.
And Cleo I might add from a Rail perspective lower energy price is certainly a catalyst for producers of resins other petrochemicals the refiners fertilizer producers.
So there are beneficiaries in our customer base in our Rail business from lower energy prices that should spur demand for additional equipment in our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks and good morning.
So I just wanted to try one more on Element.
Given your commentary for revenue to roughly I guess double versus the sales that you had in first quarter I guess that would imply that potentially the profitability or EPS from the Element sales would also potentially double.
Yet I guess the EPS guidance is for earnings to stay relatively consistent with first quarter.
So I'm just trying to figure out what maybe the disconnect is on my end and if I'm not thinking about this correctly.
I would add that eliminations were a little bit higher in Q1.
As we pointed out those are a little more weighted towards the first part of the year.
We had $0.18 of earnings from the sale of leased railcars in the first quarter.
And if you look at the type of guidance we provided for earnings from the sale of leased railcars it's a higher number as the year goes on and that would be consistent with the higher level of sales to Element and others that we have forecasted.
So I'm not sure there's a disconnect necessarily but obviously there's a lot of moving parts in our business as we go through the year in terms of volume and production rates in different parts of the business.
If you kind of look at our overall guidance for an area like barge for example versus where we were (55:01) first quarter the run rate is a little lower the back part of the year.
And so things like earnings from sales of leased railcars to Element and others offset that to maintain relatively consistent earnings.
Okay helpful.
And then ASP up pretty significantly in the first quarter.
Just trying to get a sense for what were some of the drivers there and then how should we think about ASP as we progress through the rest of this year.
Steve? Yeah.
I assume you're referring to Rail in that question Matt? Yes yes.
Really product mix in the first quarter orders we had some very high value railcars in particular pressure tank cars railcars made of stainless steel.
Auto racks had a very significant impact on those average selling prices.
Okay.
I mean as we move forward should we assume that maybe ASP comes down a little bit from what you did in the first quarter.
Is that a kind of a fair way of looking at things? It really becomes a mix issue and perhaps I don't have that statistic in front of me but it's really a mix issue.
Okay.
And Matt this is James.
As you look at the average price of railcars in our backlog it remains pretty healthy.
Obviously the mix has changed a bit as Steve talks about and that's going to affect things quarter-to-quarter.
But we're forecasting a very healthy margin for the balance of the year in the Rail Group and I think that's reflective of good pricing and efficiencies we expect in the Rail Group.
Okay.
And then in terms of the guidance for railcar deliveries which came up a little bit I just want to confirm what you're assuming this year that does not include the potential I guess contribution from the tank facility that you've restarted in Georgia and the potential replacement cycle that could hit in the second half given regulations coming through in hopefully May? Yeah Matt this is Steve.
Our guidance does include cars that are currently being produced at our Georgia facility but it does not include any potential incremental increase in demand from a regulatory change.
Okay.
Helpful.
Thank you for the time.
And thank you.
Next we'll move to Mike Baudendistel with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Actually got disconnected during the litigation portion; so I'm sorry if this was already addressed but just want to confirm that the...
Michael I think you've been disconnected again.
We can't hear Michael operator? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello can you hear me now? We can now.
Thank you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just wanted to confirm that – because I missed the litigation discussion that the Department of Justice has not contacted you at this point that remains true? We have attempted to set up a meeting this morning to meet with Justice.
I have not heard back from that meeting so there has been contact made but we don't have any information.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the – I think the market is reacting negatively to the number of orders below 5 000 units.
Is there anything that the Street might be missing there either because your backlogs are so long that you are less competitive on when those cars are going to be delivered or just anything else that the market might be missing about that number? Yeah Michael this is Steve.
Orders are not necessarily smooth quarter-to-quarter they are lumpy from that standpoint but I'm very pleased with the level of order inquiries we've seen during the fourth quarter and that continues into the second quarter.
We remain very confident of the fundamentals in railcar demand right now.
We do have an extended backlog and it is very healthy and that obviously provides us good insight into our production planning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And just one last one is on borrowing cost.
I mean does the – the increase in liquidity to some of these facilities does that increase the borrowing cost at all in the next several quarters? Yeah.
This is James.
Increasing the warehouse facility there's obviously a small carrying cost with that but we've reduced our financing cost by the purchasing of TRL I through rent expense and the anticipated repurchase or loan payoff I should say of TRL VI – TRL I firstly TRL VI in the second case I apologize.
So you're talking incremental carrying cost.
We already had warehouse carrying cost so having a slightly higher it's not a significant matter in our overall financials but it's certainly embedded in the guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Next we'll move to Kristine Kubacki with Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
My question is about yesterday GATX on their conference call and our own channel checks are suggesting the same thing that there's availability suddenly opening up in the backlog particularly in the fourth quarter and first quarter in the industry.
And I know the OEMs at large have maintained that the backlog is non-cancelable but can you comment on that that widening availability and our customers coming to you to push things around or things reshuffling in the backlog? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Steve? Yeah Kristine this is Steve.
We've increased our production plans to 33 000 to 34 500 cars this year and that would include any consideration we've had from customers asking us to either push back and in many case we've had customers asking us to move their cars up.
So I'm not sure about your market channels but that's not the experience we're having right now at Trinity.
Okay.
And then I guess just one last question it's a little bit of disconnect I guess based on the turn of their conference calls and obviously we've gone through mostly all the railroads have reported and obviously there has been a reset I mean that's not just in a few commodity groups but we're seeing some pretty significant headwinds whether it's on volumes coming down we're seeing cars come offline and presumably go into storage and you are saying the inquiry level is still strong.
I guess I'm wondering what the disconnect there is? Are customers just looking past maybe this is a soft patch or is there something more foreboding I guess coming down the pike? Yeah.
Kristine Steve again.
Again we're seeing very strong inquiries through the second quarter very consistent with the inquiry levels we've seen in the late last year into the first quarter.
One of the beauties of the Leasing business is we have long-term contracts.
So while there may be short-term positives and the demand for certain commodities our long-term lease contracts provide for those cars to continue to be on rent and hence the high strong utilization that we have in our lease fleet.
When you look industry-wide we see strong utilization across leased fleets.
We see long backlogs from a production standpoint and we think that certainly serves well for continued strong demand.
Yeah.
That's very helpful.
I appreciate your time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Can you hear me this morning? Yes Art.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks James.
Hey just thanks for taking my question.
And I'll just be short I know the call has been long.
A curious question about the expense side.
Some of the other industries that I follow are starting to see some labor shortages and some upward wage pressure.
Are you seeing any of that in any of your manufacturing businesses? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bill you want to comment on that? You know Art I think from a labor perspective labor is certainly tight certainly hard to get and maintain skilled labor forces.
We are seeing some labor rate increases but I wouldn't consider it a major cost drag to the business at this point in time.
Steve maybe add to that.
Yeah.
We've been – Art this is Steve.
We've been very pleased with our hiring abilities in our Georgia and Arkansas facilities but there are pockets in the country that are more competitive from a labor standpoint than others.
But generally we would able to get the talent and retain the people consistent with our historical pay patterns.
Inc.</span></strong> And are you seeing anything unusual in those pay patterns or inflation is a little bit higher than you've seen in the past at all at this point in time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well this is Tim.
What we do is throughout our whole system we keep track of where the wage rates are within a particular market and then we try remain to competitive as possible.
There has been over the last year or two a movement upward for talented people not only in the shop environment but throughout the administrative ranks as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Thanks for your time this morning.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Bill Baldwin with Baldwin Anthony.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Steve I was just going to – you already touched base on a little bit regarding Cartersville but I'm just going to ask you how the ramp up is going there and how that's coming along in terms of getting that facility up and running and do you have it where you want to have at this point in time or is there more to be done? Thanks Bill for the question.
I'm very pleased with our Georgia facility coming back on stream they're producing at a good level.
We have additional capacity there if the market demand provides for.
I'm extremely pleased with the ability that we've had to bring back a number of people who worked at that facility prior to us closing in 2009 both at the management level and at a shop floor level.
So we have been able to ramp up a little more quickly that facility because of the familiarity with our business that folks have had.
Thank you for the color Steve.
Thank you.
And it does look like we have ran out of time for today.
At this time I'll turn the call back over Gail Peck for closing comments.
Thank you Tony.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1 o'clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on May 1 2015.
The access number is 402-220-0464.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at anytime and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity's Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from these expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Gail Peck.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tanisha.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries' second quarter 2015 results conference call.
I am Gail Peck Vice President of Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Similar to the format we used on our last earnings call we are going to have two parts to our conference call remarks.
First we will begin with an update on the Highway litigation matter.
We will then follow with our normal quarterly earnings conference call format.
Today's speakers are Theis Rice Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups and James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following their comments we will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Theis Rice.
Thank you Gail.
Good morning everyone.
As we previously reported Trinity Industries and Trinity Highway Products received an adverse jury verdict in October 2014 in a False Claims Act case involving the ET Plus guardrail end-terminal system.
For purposed of today's comments I will refer to Trinity Industries and Trinity Highway Products together as the company.
Following the jury verdict the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas Marshall Division ordered the parties to engage in good faith negotiations in an effort to reach a settlement of this matter.
Recently on June 9 the parties reported to the District Court that despite mutual best efforts the parties were not successful in resolving their disputes.
That afternoon the District Court issued its memorandum opinion and order in the case and then a judgment on the verdict in the total amount of $682.4 million.
On June 23 the company posted a supersedeas bond in the amount of $686 million covering the total judgment and two years of post-judgment interest.
The bond was approved by the District Court and has stayed execution on the judgment until all post-judgment motions and appeals are exhausted.
The company's Motion for New Trial is pending.
If denied the company will vigorously pursue its rights of appeal of the judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
The company's Motion for New Trial is based on errors committed by the District Court in the course of the trial the District Court's failure to apply the applicable law to the allegations in the case and substantial evidence obtained post-verdict invalidating the claims made.
The company believes that the evidence presented at trial clearly showed no fraud was committed.
At the Fifth Circuit the company's position will be simple.
The judgment is erroneous and should be reversed.
Based on information currently available to the company including but not limited to the significance of eight successful post-verdict crash tests of the ET Plus conclusions reached by the FHWA's first joint task force founded upon such crash tests and the FHWA's published field observations and research reported by the FHWA's first joint task force regarding ET Plus systems installed on the nation's roadways we do not believe that a loss is probable in this matter therefore no accrual has been included in the consolidated financial statements.
For additional information on this matter please see Note 18 in our 10-Q being filed later today.
The Federal Highway Administration formed a second joint task force to further evaluate the in-service performance of the ET Plus through the collection and analysis of a broad array of data.
The FHWA has stated that the second joint task force will report its findings this summer at which time we will perform a thorough analysis before resuming any shipment of the product to customers.
We have previously reported the company received a federal subpoena from the U.S.
Department of Justice through the U.S.
Attorney for the District of Massachusetts.
The company is fully cooperating with the Department of Justice in response to this subpoena.
Our second quarter 10-Q will be filed today.
In Note 18 of the 10-Q we provide additional information on this litigation and other related legal matters pertaining to the ET Plus.
If you would like more details relating to my comments please refer to the company's website at www.etplusfacts.com.
I will now turn the call over to Tim.
Thank you Theis and good morning everyone.
I am very pleased with Trinity's financial performance during the second quarter.
Our performance continues to reflect the strength of our diversified industrial business model and our ability to shift resources to meet our customers' needs.
I am extremely proud of the exceptional performance delivered by our people.
Their consolidated efforts and proven ability to execute were major contributors to the high quality results we achieved during the second quarter.
Our rail group generated strong quarterly financial results reporting record operating profit during the second quarter.
I am very pleased with the level of orders the group received during the quarter.
I am impressed with the group's continued ability to increase profitability while making shifts in product mix.
Our railcar leasing and management services group delivered record results from operations during the second quarter.
The group's results were also enhanced by a solid level of sales of leased railcars.
I am pleased with the progress our team is making with high quality institutional investors who are looking to invest long-term capital in portfolios of leased railcars.
Over the last several years we have been successful building a railcar investment platform for institutional equity investors.
We expect to continue to grow our railcar investment platform.
I am impressed with our inland barge group's record financial performance during the second quarter.
The group substantially increased profit levels compared to the first quarter as well as year-over-year.
The group's ability to demonstrate manufacturing flexibility and generate productivity gains over the past couple of years has been remarkable.
The second quarter financial performance of our energy equipment group improved year-over-year.
The successful integration of Meyer Steel Structures contributed to the improved results.
I am also pleased with our construction products group's profitability.
It improved from the first quarter.
From a growth point of view we continue to search for acquisition and organic growth opportunities in markets that have products services technology and competencies that fit within our portfolio of industrial manufacturing businesses.
Trinity's financial and operational status continues to be solid.
I am pleased with the way we are balancing our current business conditions including litigation matters while continuing to maintain momentum towards attaining our vision of being a premier diversified industrial company.
Our 2015 earnings outlook reflects the positive momentum we are experiencing within our company as well as the benefits of having solid backlogs in our primary businesses.
Our accomplishments are due to the capabilities and expertise of our dedicated employees our ability to respond effectively to shifts in demand and our ongoing commitment to provide high quality products and services to our customers.
I will now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
The energy equipment group reported another solid level of profit during the second quarter.
The wind tower business continued to perform well.
During the second quarter the wind tower business received $184 million of orders.
Wind industry continues to make advancements in reducing the installed cost of wind however the current order environment is still primarily driven by the extension of the production tax credit late last year.
The current market for utility structures remains competitive but long-term investment projections for this industry show positive fundamentals.
We are well positioned to respond to increased transmission infrastructure spending in North America.
Overall we are pleased with the performance of the energy equipment segment but do expect some variability within the segment's performance from quarter-to-quarter as a result of product mix and volumes.
I am proud of the construction products group's efforts during the second quarter.
The group faced a challenging operating environment due to significant rainfall during the start of the construction season.
In addition the lack of a longer term highway bill and ongoing litigation matters in the highway business created headwinds.
Despite these pressures the group maintained revenues during the quarter in-line with last year.
Our aggregates business is benefiting from a robust southern U.S.
market and our recent lightweight acquisitions strengthen our ability to serve our customers.
Moving to the inland barge group.
During the second quarter our barge group reported record levels of revenue and profit.
I am impressed with this group's ability to achieve such a strong performance in a dynamic market environment where demand conditions are constantly changing.
At the end of the quarter we began converting one of our manufacturing facilities to increase capacity for hopper barges.
Barge demand continues to reflect steady inquiry levels for both dry cargo barges for agricultural market and smaller tank barges for the chemical market.
Demand for large tank barges that transport oil is currently soft.
During the second quarter the barge group received orders for $76 million.
In closing our businesses are responding effectively to varying demand conditions.
Our long-term outlook for energy and infrastructure investment in North America remains positive.
Our businesses have a great deal of potential for future growth.
We continue to watch the market for opportunities to add to our portfolio of industrial businesses.
And now I will turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning.
I continue to be very pleased with the strong operating results generated by our dedicated TrinityRail team and the strength of our integrated business model which includes railcar manufacturing leasing parts and services.
For the first time our rail group topped a 20% operating profit margin during the quarter and once again achieved record profit levels for its tenth consecutive quarter.
Our leasing group also reported record profit levels from operations during the quarter.
These are all outstanding accomplishments.
Our operating and financial flexibility and leading market position allowed us to quickly react to shifting market demand patterns and customer needs as evidenced by our order backlog increase.
During the second quarter the industry received orders for approximately 20 000 railcars and maintained a steady level of backlog.
TrinityRail received orders for 11 170 railcars increasing our backlog to 59 830 railcars with a value of $6.9 billion.
We received orders for open top hoppers covered hoppers of varying capacities box cars auto racks flat cars and tank cars reflecting broad market demand for a wide variety of railcar types.
The diversity of these orders reflects demand beyond the energy sector.
Activity in the upstream energy markets propelled the railcar industry out of the last downturn and generated a robust level of demand for the last several years.
More recently the demand environment has shifted away from this catalyst and is now supported by increased activity in the downstream petrochemical markets as well as the agriculture construction consumer and automotive markets.
The rotation in current railcar market demand drivers toward these broad markets combined with increased replacement needs for an aging fleet of general purpose freight cars supports our view of an extended railcar cycle.
Order inquiry levels into the third quarter thus far have been consistent with the second quarter.
Our industry leading backlog serving a diverse mix of markets provides an unprecedented level of visibility with which to plan our operations.
An extended railcar cycle provides our operating team an opportunity to achieve exceptional results.
During the second quarter extended production runs positioned our rail group to generate higher levels of productivity and increased efficiencies leading to our superior operating performance evidenced by our 20% operating profit margin.
During the quarter we delivered 8 530 railcars.
We continue to expect annual deliveries of between 33 000 and 34 500 railcars in 2015.
In early May the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Transport Canada together announced enhanced tank car standards for both newly built and modified tank cars in flammable service.
At this time we are assessing our own lease fleet plans and collaborating with our customers regarding implementation of the new regulations.
As information as of the second quarter our wholly-owned and partially-owned lease fleets included approximately 11 800 DOT-111 railcars in flammable service.
Roughly 85% of these railcars operated in crude and ethanol service with a fairly even split between the two commodity services.
TrinityRail is well positioned to help our customers meet the regulatory requirements for their owned tank car fleets as well as the needs of our leased and managed fleet whether by providing newly built tank cars or modifications to existing tank cars.
As we expected our customers are taking time to evaluate the impacts of the new regulations and to assess their business needs.
Our first priority is to ensure the compliance of our own railcar fleet and those of our key customers.
We are engaged with a number of customers discussing modifications to existing tank cars they own and potential new DOT-117 tank car purchases.
We continue to believe these new regulations will be a demand catalyst for new tank cars as well as tank car modification services.
The performance of our leasing group continues to reflect the strong railcar market fundamentals.
Record revenue and profit from operations which excludes railcar sales increased year-over-year by 11% and 20% respectively.
New additions to the wholly-owned lease fleet high fleet utilization levels and healthy lease renewal increases all contributed to a record quarterly performance during the second quarter.
Lease fleet utilization remains high at 98.9%.
Our total lease fleet portfolio now stands at 76 440 railcars after taking delivery of 1 510 new railcars and acquiring 260 railcars in the secondary market offset by the sale of 1 500 leased railcars during the second quarter.
At the end of June 28% of the railcars in our order backlog were committed to customers of our leasing business bringing our leased railcar backlog to approximately $2 billion.
The size of our lease backlog underscores the expected continued growth in our lease fleet.
This growth includes investment in our own lease portfolio and creating new railcar investment vehicles for institutional investors.
There is a high degree of interest in owning leased railcars on the part of financial institutions.
Our railcar investment platform provides a valuable asset management service to institutional investors interested to invest in portfolios of leased railcars.
This service offering is a unique extension of the TrinityRail integrated business model.
I am pleased with the progress our teams are making in expanding our interface with key institutional investors which could yield multi-year relationships for creating and managing portfolios of leased railcars for our railcar investment vehicles.
In summary TrinityRail's integrated business platform is well-positioned and responding effectively to healthy railcar demand.
The rail group and leasing and management services group delivered exceptional results during the second quarter.
I expect our performance to be strong throughout the balance of 2015 as well and provide good momentum into the coming year.
Our operating and financial flexibility continue to differentiate TrinityRail enhancing our position as a premier provider of railcar products and services.
I will now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced our results for the second quarter of 2015.
For the quarter the company reported earnings per share of $1.33 and record revenues of $1.68 billion compared to EPS and revenues of $1.01 and $1.49 billion respectively for the same period last year.
During the second quarter our EPS reflected strong operating performance by most of our businesses.
During the second quarter the company repurchased 1.7 million shares of its common stock for $50 million.
This year we have repurchased $75 million of our stock and have $143.6 million of availability under our current authorization.
We prepaid in full during the second quarter approximately $340 million of secured railcar leasing debt known as TRL VI that we issued in 2008.
We used a portion of the railcars from TRL VI to secure a $250 million borrowing under our $1 billion leasing warehouse facility at a current interest rate that is more than 350 basis points lower than the TRL VI interest rate.
The railcar assets used to secure the warehouse advance and those that remain fully unencumbered are available for use in future financings or sales to institutional investors.
This loan prepayment and warehouse borrowing were included in our previous earnings guidance.
During the second quarter as previously announced we divested the assets of our galvanizing business for $51 million and recorded a pretax gain of $7.8 million within the construction products group.
The impact of this divestiture was not included in our previous earnings guidance.
We invested approximately $179 million in leased railcar additions to our own lease fleet during the second quarter.
This investment was partially offset by $149 million of leased railcar sales from our lease fleet.
Leased railcars remain a very good investment for us offering attractive returns with solid cash flow while the railcars are in our fleet and the opportunity for additional profit recognition when sold to third parties including institutional investors.
Finally we invested $47 million in capital expenditures during the quarter across a number of our manufacturing businesses and at the corporate level.
We have significant cash on hand and access to capital through our committed lines of credit at both the corporate and leasing levels.
Both our corporate revolver and our leasing warehouse facility were renewed during the second quarter at higher levels of availability with extended termination dates.
At the end of the second quarter our liquidity position remains strong at $1.77 billion.
As provided in our press release yesterday we increased our annual guidance for 2015 to $4.45 to $4.75 from $4.10 to $4.45.
We expect the level of EPS in the second half of the year to be relatively evenly split between the third and fourth quarters.
In 2015 as Steve mentioned we expect our rail group to deliver between 33 000 and 34 500 railcars during the year which maintains our previous guidance range.
This will result in total revenues for the rail group of between $4.35 billion and $4.45 billion with an expected operating margin of 19% to 19.5%.
TrinityRail's strong railcar backlog was enhanced by the solid level of railcar orders taken during the second quarter.
It continues to provide a high level of production visibility for our railcar operations in future years.
We expect our leasing group to record 2015 operating revenues excluding leased railcar sales of $675 million to $700 million with operating profit from operations of $315 million to $330 million.
As a reminder maintenance expenses tend to be higher in the back half of each year due to the timing of the services performed.
Our 2015 guidance includes earnings and cash flow from the sale of leased railcars which are reported in both the rail and leasing groups.
Year to date these earnings totaled $0.47 per share of which $0.36 per share was reported in the leasing group.
Sales of leased railcars to Element Financial under the $2 billion strategic alliance totaled approximately $350 million year-to-date bringing the cumulative total to more than $1.3 billion since program inception in 2013.
We expect to fulfill the alliance during the remainder of 2015 and our guidance assumes these sales to Element will be split roughly equally between the rail and leasing groups.
In 2015 we anticipate the leasing group will report proceeds from sales of leased railcars from the lease fleet of approximately $775 million to $825 million with profit of $210 million to $240 million which includes sales to Element as well as other institutional investors and third parties.
The increase in this guidance compared to our previous guidance is primarily due to certain Element sales moving from the rail group to the leasing group.
This increase in guidance is offset by a higher level of deferred profit eliminations which I will discuss shortly.
The total level of profitability expected from the sale of leased railcars reflected in the rail and leasing groups remains substantially unchanged in 2015 compared to our previous guidance.
Earnings and cash flow generation from the sales of leased railcars are expected to be a normal part of our business model going forward and reflect the strength of TrinityRail's lease origination and servicing capabilities.
The level of such transactions will vary from quarter-to-quarter.
Our railcar investment platform provides Trinity with a unique level of financial flexibility for a diversified industrial company.
As we originate a lease we have the flexibility to retain the asset in our wholly-owned portfolio for the long-term or for a period of time and then sell the leased railcar or we can sell the leased railcar into a railcar investment vehicle.
The capital generated through our railcar investment platform provides us with the financial flexibility to reinvest in our railcar leasing and management services platform our portfolio of diversified industrial businesses or in other investments that will enhance the shareholder returns.
The level of interest in acquiring leased railcars remains high among institutional investors.
We expect our energy equipment group to generate 2015 revenues of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion with an operating margin of 11.5% to 12.5%.
We were pleased during the quarter to receive orders for $184 million of wind towers which provides us with production visibility for that business through 2016.
We expect our construction products group to report 2015 revenues of $525 million to $540 million with an operating margin of 9% to 10%.
The change in the guidance range from the previous quarter reflects the portfolio restructuring completed in the first half of the year and the gain from the asset divestiture in the second quarter.
We continue to experience headwinds associated with uncertainty around highway funding at the federal and state levels in addition to the ongoing highway litigation.
We are pleased with the performance and opportunities within our aggregates businesses.
Our inland barge group is expected to report 2015 revenues of $680 million to $700 million with a full year operating margin of 17% to 18%.
The increase in guidance is a direct result of the productivity improvements made within our barge facilities.
Corporate expenses are expected to range from $115 million to $125 million during 2015 which includes ongoing litigation related expenses.
This range now includes the pro-rated $2 million of the $3.9 million annual premium associated with the appeal bond we posted during the second quarter to stay the execution of the highway litigation judgment.
In 2015 we now expect to eliminate between $1 billion and $1.1 billion of revenue and defer between $200 million and $225 million of operating profit due to the addition of new railcars to our lease fleet and the timing of sales to institutional investors of new leased railcars manufactured by the rail group.
We eliminated $475 million of revenue and deferred $98 million of profit due to the addition of new railcars to our lease fleet in the first half of the year.
We expect to eliminate between $375 million and $400 million of revenues from other intercompany transactions during the year.
Our annual EPS guidance also includes the following assumptions a tax rate of approximately 33.7% though this rate could vary quarter-to-quarter the deduction of between $30 million and $35 million of non-controlling earnings due to our partial ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013 a reduction of $0.17 per share due to the two class method of accounting compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement and dilution of approximately $0.07 per share from the convertible notes.
As it pertains to cash flow we expect the annual net cash investment in new railcars in our lease fleet to be between $160 million and $185 million in 2015 after considering the expected proceeds received from leased railcar sales during the year and the purchase of TRL I that was conducted in the first quarter.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2015 are expected to be between $250 million and $300 million.
We remain very well positioned with a combined $7.8 billion backlog in our railcar inland barge and wind towers businesses that would generate incremental earnings and cash flow to enhance our strong balance sheet and liquidity position.
As we now prepare for our question and answer session please note that Theis' remarks today related to highway litigation were very thorough.
We would ask that your questions today focus on our operations and financial performance.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go ahead and take our first question from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
I was curious how has the shift or the mix of buyer shifted the local marketplace over the last three to six months? With these very strong orders are you seeing a heavier mix of leasing companies with multi-year orders looking to secure longer-term capacity here? Bascome this is Steve Menzies.
Certainly different car types are utilized by different industrial shippers.
So there is some change in mix there from an industrial shipper's standpoint.
Some of our lessee's are different from that standpoint.
We have seen lessors place orders for freight cars.
There have been some announcements about multi-year orders from lessors as well.
And then of course the railroads are large owners of freight cars.
So right now I would say that the not only are the number of car types and markets that we are responding to very broad but the customer base is very diverse as well.
All right.
Well thanks for that.
I guess what I am focused on is can you help us understand how you have generated such a strong railcar order outcome both on absolute basis and certainly relative to the rest of the industry this quarter given near-term demand fundamentals on the rails which have been pretty poor for the last three to six months here? Well Bascome I think there was a compliment in there somewhere.
So thank you for that.
I think I said it my remarks the operating flexibility that we have demonstrated gives us really the chance to be able to respond to shifts in the marketplace to be able to seize opportunities with our customers.
I am very very pleased with the results from our operating folks for the leverage that it gives us when we are able to go out and pursue these orders.
So we have seen the shift in demand and operationally we have been able to respond very quickly to be able to satisfy our customers' needs.
Okay.
Well I appreciate that.
One more just looking at plate steel pricing that looks like it's down 30% to 40% over the last year maybe 20% to 30% over the last six months.
How has this impacted margins in your various businesses? And maybe is it impacting the average price embedded in your railcar backlog that we can see? Yes.
This is James Bascome.
I think in general to your point steep prices are down.
We generally have our steel prices covered through our customer contracts and with our steel suppliers themselves.
So it could impact pricing a little bit as it shifts through the system.
From a percentage perspective as we talked about before your margins maybe a little bit higher because we have the same level of profit on potentially little lower cost in price.
But overall it is going through the system very comfortably.
Okay.
So to your comments about the percentage margins if stronger dollar and structurally lower steel prices are the new normal longer-term I guess it follows from that mid-cycle normal margins could be a little bit higher in some of your businesses going forward? Bascome this is Steve.
Let me just add to that with respect to steel prices.
While we talked about steel plates and those prices moving down we are still in a very tight supply demand situation for railcar components and we have not seen those core prices decrease and they have remained very strong and very solid.
Yes.
And Bascome with respect to your margin question we are not projecting anything beyond what we have given for 2015.
So it would be pretty mature in long-term perspective there.
All right guys.
Thanks for the color this morning.
Take care.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just back to the margin question particularly on rail obviously very strong margin there.
I just want to understand the sequential impact with the lift driving a little less there.
It seems like a little bit of moderation in the back half of the year.
Can you just help me better understand through the pits and peaks there I guess for this quarter as well as looking forward into the next two? Allison this is Steve.
As we move through the balance part of the year we do have a shift in our production mix and along with that shift in production mix we do have some challenges these with line changeovers.
But we are also still incurring the ramp-up cost associated with the expansion of our maintenance service business.
So those are some of the things we are looking at going into the second half of 2015.
Again I will point too our operations team has really been remarkable in what they have accomplished and so we continue to present more challenges in front of them they respond exceptionally well.
I wouldn't expect anything different.
That's great.
And then just turning to barge.
Bill I think you had mentioned transitioning that one facility back to dry.
Did that happen yet? Or is that sort of what's driving some of these line changeovers in the back half of year for the barge industry? Yes.
Allison the line changeover is actually completing as we talk.
So I would suspect by the end of the month that line changeover is complete.
Okay.
Perfect.
So then there will be the two and two back to what you historically had in terms of manufacturing? There will actually be a three and one when that changes.
A three and one.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Justin Long.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
I wanted to ask a question now that we have the final rule on tank car regulations.
Have you taken any strategic steps to either increase your capacity for tank car builds and/or utilize your maintenance facilities to potentially perform third-party maintenance work? Justin Steve.
I think we have demonstrated in our production platform and footprint a lot of flexibility to be able to respond to shifts in demand and I am quite certain that if we see a substantial number of orders for new tank cars that we will be able to handle those in good stead.
As we previously discussed we are making investment in our maintenance services capacity to be able to support our own leased and managed fleet which is our first priority and then we have key strategic customers who required tank cars from us that we want to able to support.
But at this point in time we don't envision our business model on a for-hire take all comers basis.
So that's where we are at from that standpoint.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And of the 11 800 DOT-111 that are in flammable service that you mentioned do you have you have a sense for how many of those you anticipate to retrofit versus scrap and replace? I really don't at this time Justin.
It's all part of our analysis.
This is really a very very complex issue with may different stakeholders and many different perspectives.
And we are continuing to work through that.
I think I mentioned we are in extensive discussions with our customers with respect to the purchase of new DOT-117 or modifications.
Again I think they are still doing their business assessment needs as well.
So we will see how that unfolds over the coming months.
Okay.
I can appreciate that.
And last question the order number was strong here in the quarter and I was wondering if you have a sense of how much of that demand is coming from growth versus replacement? And maybe as a follow-up to that I also wanted to ask about the impact of improving velocity on the rail network and how that could impact demand? I don't know if you guys have a rule of thumb that you think about for a one mile per hour improvement on the rail network how that could impact demand for railcars but anything you could share on that topic would be helpful.
Justin Steve again.
On the latter part of your question it really depends upon the car types and the traffic lanes.
I think it's really dangerous to try to make broad generalizations about the railcar market.
Our analysis gets much more in individual markets and individual car types and projecting growth in demand from that standpoint.
So I think as the rail rods become more fluid it just simply creates greater opportunity for them to grow their business and we certainly share in that success.
Okay.
And then on the growth versus replacement and in terms of the order book do you have a sense for the mix between the two? Yes.
And this is just a rough number.
We might say two-thirds to three-quarters of the orders were growth.
A lot of that being driven by the investment in petrochemical complexes down in the Gulf Coast and of course from a replacement standpoint we have been projecting a long-term meaningful replacement cycle for railcars as well.
Automotive would be another area of real growth as well.
It's quite an interesting story that's going on there.
And of course with more production being moved to Mexico and assembly to Mexico that changes some of the logistics and requires longer cycle times for railcars which implies more railcars as well.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much for the time.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you everyone.
I kind of wanted to follow-up on this whole longer-term demand thing as we see a continued secular decline in coal volumes.
Steve have you guys looked at it from that perspective that if we see more of a stronger secular decline in coal volumes how that may impact network velocity within those specific claims and how that may change the dynamics for railcar turns within the industry? Well that's a really good question.
I don't know that I have ever really looked at it from that perspective.
Coal if you look at the history of railcar orders there has always been a major car type or two that has been the leading driver for demand at that time.
As I mentioned in my remarks the energy sector pushed us out of the 2008 to 2010 recession prior to that we had the ethanol boom.
You can go back to other pockets in time.
We have had exceptionally strong intermodal production auto racks you can go back even further into the coal.
So we have had rotation over a period of time from car type to car type as market shift under themselves.
We don't see any demand currently for coal.
For new coal cars we are working effectively to keep our existing coal assets utilized but I doubt coal will be leading any new car production anytime soon.
My second question is more of a technical question probably for James.
When you guys report the $6.9 billion in revenue inherent in the backlog for longer-term orders that may adjust whether it's more to a specific car type that hasn't been defined as yet or maybe potential adjustments for price how do you deal with that in the current numbers? Do you take a range and hit the midpoint of that? Or do you try and take out some of the downside and focus on the lower end of ranges on those potential adjustments? Yes.
Art this is James.
I will try to tackle that one for you.
Our backlog will adjust a little bit as we get closer to production of those specific cars.
The longer-term contracts that generally have a certain car type that we put into the backlog as a default.
If that were to shift with quite a bit of advance notice then we will shift the pricing of what's in the backlog.
So with these kind of numbers you don't see a whole lot of moving around quarter-to-quarter.
Normally a price changes due to componentry as Steve mentioned those kinds of things you will see a little bit of shifting.
But primarily those longer term deals have a set car type for now.
And they will shift as we get a little bit closer to them.
Outside of steel have there been any of those other types of adjustments in the most recent quarters? I don't think we can get real specific but if as get closer to producing those specific cars you will see some tweaks around the margin.
But at these levels it's not going to move the needle a whole lot at these types of $6.9 billion backlog.
Okay.
Fair enough.
That's very helpful.
Thanks for the time this morning.
Thanks Art.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Steve another couple of regulation questions for you.
First one do you have a sense for when the retrofit work would start on the DOT-111 that you have in current service? Sure.
We are currently retrofitting cars for our own lease fleet as we speak today Matt.
And I know there's a lot of moving parts to it but any sense as to I guess the cadence of work going forward? Yes.
We are really proving that out right now.
It's too early to really give you much projection there.
Okay.
Understood.
And then with respect to replacement orders you talked to having conversations with your customers.
This is another timing question.
And again I realize it's a tough one.
But I am trying to get a sense for the potential timing of when we start to see these replacement orders.
We know there's a very large fleet of DOT-111 that need to get either retrofitted or replaced in the next two-and-a-half years.
I am just trying to get my arms around when those potential orders could hit? If it's sometime this year? Or if we think it's more of a 2016 event? Yes.
A good question Matt.
I am not real certain of when these are going to start to materialize.
We have built DOT-117 train cars and we are currently building DOT-117 train cars.
And the discussion we are having with our customers are really as much driven by the price of crude oil as it is HM-251.
And so that's an important variable that goes into their business assessments that would be very difficult for me to project here on this call.
But I think this will start to unfold slowly and certainly you look to the bigger fleet operators and the bigger owners of these cars to make some moves here certainly in the near future.
Okay.
Good color.
I appreciate the time.
And we will take our next question from Aleks Kotsubey with Brookfield.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
It's actually Angelo filling in for Aleks.
But I just want to say nice quarter and I did notice that LTV with regards to the wholly-owned fleet is actually decreasing.
So just want to see if you could put a little bit more meat around what is that capacity there assuming a more normal 75% kind of industry level? And then just also following that up with given the cash flow back half the debt capacity at the corporate level what just run though for us the priorities where you see on the M&amp;A side? And then with regards to buybacks what else could you do there? You just have an extreme amount of liquidity in our view.
Angelo.
This is James.
Thank you.
There is a lot there.
I will try to tackle those in two pieces.
As far as the LTV is concerned I would really link into two things.
One we haven't done long-term borrowings on the fleet.
We made a bit of a warehouse advance but that was after paying down and even larger piece of the principle on TRL VI.
Secondly we have scheduled amortization on our debt.
And so while the fleet has grown our unencumbered fleet has grown and our debt has come down.
So it's as simple as continuing to delver that side of the balance sheet at this time.
As far as the corporate balance sheet I don't think we would have opine on specific debt capacity.
We have quite a bit of liquidity.
We do feel we have good access to the capital markets.
And I think the priorities would be unchanged from what we talked about before.
Tim had certainly talked about and we all have looking for at good valuations within our portfolio of businesses continuing to grow our leasing platform and there's a lot of different ways we can do that.
And then you have certainly seen a return of capital to shareholders through share repurchases and increased dividends this year.
So I think as you have heard from us before on calls that we have had.
It's a very broad-based capital investment plan that the executive team and the Board of Directors visit on very regularly.
All right I appreciate that.
But just getting back to I guess the piece I was more hitting on is I understand you are still delevering and you have the amortization in that wholly-owned lease fleet but if I look at a lot of your comps they are running 75% LTV across that platform and if our numbers are right as per our analysis you are sub-40%.
So it just seems that there's quite a bit of debt capacity at that level.
Yes.
I think we recognize there's liquidity and capacity there.
We have had higher levers level in the past and we have been comfortable with that.
But at this time delevering and not baring those interest expense cost within our P&amp;L makes more sense for us.
We know that's available to us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Angelo.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I have a few questions and thank you for your patience.
To pick up on your earlier statement about two-thirds to three-fourths of growth coming from petchem can you help us see what you see in terms of next level of growth there in types of customers? Is it now mostly industrial shippers rather than a leasing company? What could follow in this petchem wave? Cleo this is Steve.
Let me just first of all clarify my response.
Well I think the question that was asked is what percentage of the orders we received during the quarter were associated with growth versus replacement.
I think my answer was somewhere between two-thirds and three-quarters of those orders were related to growth.
With respect to growth some of those elements of growth are related to the petrochemical sector.
Not all of that growth is related to petrochemicals.
The amount of investment the tens of billions that are being expensed for capacity expansion in the Gulf Coast I think will continue to be a catalyst for railcar demand.
Those customers there are typically large petrochemical producers both domestic and foreign.
So we are looking to buy and lease railcars to support their expanded operations which includes both covered hoppers for resins as well as train cars for refined products and other specialty chemicals that they will produce.
Automotive has been a very clear driver for growth.
As we have mentioned extended auto racks.
The beauty of an auto rack is when an auto rack is ordered there is also a flat car that goes along with it.
So every time we hear about an auto rack order it's really almost two-for-one from that standpoint.
And we are seeing some of the specialty grains areas also continue to expand requiring new types of equipment that's suited for those capacity for those commodity densities.
So those are some of the areas for growth.
A lot of those are industrial shippers as a customer base and other leasing companies obviously are looking for opportunities to invest in those sectors too.
Thank you.
My next question relates to the backlog yesterday on GATX call.
We heard their assessment that still a lot of the tank cars in the backlog were related to flammable liquids I think they put out a number of 80% but then quickly said but don't hold me to that probably those are shifting maybe some orders are been pushed out replaced with other types of cars.
Can you tell us what you see in your order book in that regard? Yes.
This is Steve again Cleo.
I am not sure how GATX would have insight into order backlogs other than anecdotal.
But I think we have said several times that the tank cars destined for crude oil comprise a very nominal portion of our backlog and most are scheduled for delivery yet this year and that remains consistent.
Right now we are seeing only a few inquiries for crude oil cars.
These are in discussions with customers looking at alternatives with respect to DOT-117.
So I think the crude oil backlog as far as Trinity is concerned is not an area of concern for us and we are very comfortable that those orders are solid and those customers are prepared to take their equipment.
Okay.
My next question relates to lease fleet.
Can you please remind us just broadly maybe the mix of cars that's in there? And what you are seeing for pricing and extensions at this time? Yes.
Cleo this is Steve again.
We don't really give detailed breakouts of portfolio composition.
And I think we have said in our comments we are seeing strong lease renewal rate increases across our portfolio and have had very good experience in these renewals with our customers.
The fleet continues to be highly utilized and I would say that's the case for most of the lease fleets in North America.
Okay.
And again many thanks for your patience and my last question relates to institutional invested interest.
Could you help us get a big picture in our minds about the mix of earnings related to this customer segment? Do see them coming and I know it's to a great extent accounting but given just what they are willing to take and what you are willing to offer should we see earnings related to the sales number mostly from manufacturing for manufacturing type earnings or sales from your leased backlog or leased fleet more again that would be harder for us to assess? Cleo this is James.
I think you will certainly see a mix between new railcar production with leases that are sold directly to institutional investors as well as out of our lease fleet.
We have given you the level of proceeds we expect from the lease fleet.
We obviously as you well know have a little over $600 million $650 million remaining on the $2 billion Element strategic alliance.
We said that would be roughly evenly split between rail and leasing.
As far as the others we have not given a real firm breakdown there.
And we have said the investors as we talk to them and the portfolio of cars we have available and that's going to be a quarter-to-quarter year-to-year type of conversation.
We look at our rail investment platform as a long-term strategy for the company and we are starting to see the benefits of that with the multiple relationships that we have.
Okay.
And then in terms of maybe an early peek into next year would you say that next year will be compatible in terms of interest with this like a steady flow or materially different in any way from 2015? I don't think Cleo again this is James we get specific on giving any guidance for 2016.
But as I said we do expect earnings from leased railcar sales to be a normal part of our earnings model going forward.
Many thanks.
Thank you.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Steve Barker with KeyBanc Capital.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
There's been a lot of pressure on industrial multiples in the public market recently.
Can you talk what you are seeing in the private market in terms of the pipeline and how those conversations may have changed? Steve this is James.
You are referring in the M&amp;A world? Yes.
Exactly.
Yes.
I don't think we comment too much on what we seeing there.
We have been able to put several acquisitions into the company over the last couple of years largest one being about this time last year with Meyer pleased with that integration as we have had said.
We have had divestitures and acquisitions this year especially within the construction products business.
So I don't think we give a lot of insight in terms of what we are seeing.
It's going to totally vary market-to-market and opportunity-to-opportunity.
But we continue to see opportunities at good valuations.
Is the slate full for the pipeline? Are you engaged in more conversations than you were six months go? Any way to firm that up? Well this is Tim.
We are just constantly engaged in conversations with people who have had interest of either buying or selling businesses.
We have an ongoing dialogue with a number of different opportunities and we have always been that way and I think that will always exist and many times we will be talking with somebody that we have had a multi-year relationship with or an interest in a particular business.
And then we just have to wait for the right timing to come along until we think it fits with our internal conditions as well as the external conditions.
Well Tim I guess to that point we have already seen talk about an extended railcar cycle and you obviously have great cash flow visibility from the backlog right now.
When the Board meets do the discussions lean towards cycle concerns at all? Or is it really a capital allocation strategy to stabilize EBITDA and EPS or GAAP earnings going forward? We have a variety of discussion with our Board.
We talk about numerous topics and it really just depends on the opportunity or the challenge or issue that we are confronted with at the time.
So we engage with our Board regularly and have I wouldn't say that there is one type of conversation that we have with our Board or that we are currently having with our Board.
Okay.
And James back to the question about leverage on the lease fleet are you limited to use of capital in terms of leverage on the lease fleet? Or I guess said another way could you use the lease fleet as collateral to raise funds for other purposes? Steve this is James.
When we raise capital through securing railcars whether in the warehouse or on long-term financing it's corporate cash.
So the cash is very fungible and can be used for a variety of purposes.
There is not limitations in that respect.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Steve.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Mike Baudendistel with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just wanted to get your philosophy on just number of deliveries you expect the next several quarters with backlogs being as long as they are.
I mean would you expect that they would stay in the sort of 8 500 unit per quarter range? Or given that you think the cycle is going to be extended would you increase capacity further to get more out the door? Mike this is Steve.
I have given you guidance for the balance of the year which takes us to 33 000 and 34 500 cars which implies a very similar run rate in the second half to the first half give or take a few hundred railcars.
And that's certainly where we see our production footprint position at least to move into first part of 2016.
Okay.
And then related to that as far as third-party finance institutions where you may have Element-like deals should we expect those to be announcements to be forthcoming during the back half of this year? Well certainly Mike as we continue to work on these things and build the relationships.
When we come to something formative really substantial engagements with these financial institutions then we certainly do make an announcement and share those with the public and will so as we move forward.
Great.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
And we will go ahead and take our next question from Bill Baldwin with Baldwin Anthony Securities.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thank you for your time.
A couple of items.
Steve can you give us some color on how the ramp up is going in Cartersville and how that's progressing? Sure.
The ramp up at Cartersville is going very well.
We were successful in hiring a number of the management team that have been with us prior to the closing of facility.
We have done very good in our labor hiring.
So I am pleased with what's going on at that facility.
And that facility is a great example of the type of operating flexibility that we have throughout our platform.
And we are looking to do some other things at that facility as the market may dictate.
And when I get questions about additional capacity I think we also have the ability to take Cartersville a little further than where it's going right now.
So that's been a really great facility for us.
So it's up and running and producing cars and at a pretty competitive rate I mean pretty competitive efficiency? It has Bill yes.
Very good very good.
And secondly I haven't talked in a while about this but can you talk about the dynamics of what's going on with your railcar production operations in Mexico and how important that is to your overall rail manufacturing business? Sure.
Well we have had great success in our Mexico production platform.
We have seen great operating flexibility and shifting from other Trinity products to tank cars and our fleet car facility down there is operating at peak levels.
So we have demonstrated to a greater efficiency in moving materials across the border and handling all of the issues associated with importation and exportation there.
And our network is operating very efficiently.
So it's a very important part of our production footprint and one that's operating at a very effective level.
Is this supply about the same percentage of your railcars today as it did a few years ago? Or how has that trended? It fluctuates depending upon product mix.
So it's probably a little greater portion of our cars right now are coming out of Mexico.
But that can shift again depending upon product mix.
Do you make just certain car types down there Steve? Or can you pretty much make your broad product line in Mexico? Great question Bill.
If you had asked that a few years ago we were limited on the number of product types and railcar types we can make there.
I would tell you that we feel confident being able to make any of the railcars in our facilities in Mexico today.
It is really one of the success stories in the growth and development of our Mexico footprint.
Very good.
You guys have done an outstanding job.
Thank you Bill.
And that does conclude our Q&amp;A session for today.
I will now hand the program back over to Gail for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on July 31.
The access number is 402-220-1346.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
And thank you for joining us this morning.
And that does conclude today's program.
We like to thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day and you may disconnect at anytime.
Before we get started let remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and include statements as to estimates expectations intentions and prediction of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity's Form 10-K and other SEC filings for description of certain of the business issues and risks.
A change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Good day and welcome to the Trinity Industries Incorporated Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
Currently all phone lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions during a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's program may be recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
You may begin.
Thank you Eric good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries third quarter 2015 results conference call.
I am Gail Peck Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Just to note we are experiencing severe weather in Dallas this morning.
In the unlikely event that the call is disrupted we will reconnect as quickly as possible.
Similar to the format we used on our last earnings call we're going to have two parts for a conference call remarks.
First we will begin with an update on the highway litigation matter; we will then follow with our normal quarterly earnings call format.
Today speakers' are Theis Rice Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer; Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President; Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Group; Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups; and James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following their comments we will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Barry Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I'll now turn the call over to Theis Rice.
Thank you Gail and good morning.
For purposes of today's remarks I will refer to Trinity Industries and Trinity Highway Products together as the company the Federal Highway Administration as the FHWA and the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials as AASHTO.
I will also refer to Texas A&amp;M Transportation Institute as TTI and the National Cooperative Highway Research Program Report 350 as Report 350.
As previously reported the company has received an adverse jury verdict in a False Claims Act case involving claims of fraud and product defect pertaining to the company's ET Plus guardrail end-terminal system.
In June 2015 the Federal District Court entered judgment on the verdict.
Because the company believes the evidence presented at trial clearly showed no fraud was committed the company has filed a notice of appeal with United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
We currently anticipate the Fifth Circuit will issue a briefing schedule before the end of the first quarter of 2016 at which time we will better understand the timing of the appellate process for this matter.
With respect to the product itself the FHWA reported earlier this year that the ET Plus System has successfully passed eight additional crash tests performed in accordance with Report 350 test matrices the applicable and nationally recognized testing criteria and performance evaluation standards.
Additionally an FHWA and AASHTO joint task force was formed to evaluate certain features of the ET Plus System.
Upon completing its evaluation the task force confirmed contrary to allegations in the False Claims Act case that there was no evidence of multiple versions of the ET Plus System and that the ET Plus Systems used in the eight crash test were representatives of the ET Plus System installed on the nation's roadways.
The FHWA also formed a separate joint task force to conduct an in-service evaluation of the ET Plus System.
The task force was comprised of representatives from the FHWA AASHTO State Departments of Transportation and several independent experts.
As part of this evaluation the task force was to determine if there was any evidence of performance limitations unique to the ET Plus System and the degree to which any such performance limitations extended to other brands of extruding w-beam guardrail terminals.
On September 11 of this year the joint task force published its findings and conclusions which included among others that there are no in-service performance limitations unique to the ET Plus System that there will be real-world crash conditions which exceed the performance expectations of all brands of w-beam guardrail end-terminals such as improper system placement or installation and improper or delayed maintenance or repair to name a few and that after months of reviewing real-world crash data from across the country there was no reason to conduct further testing of the ET Plus System or other Report 350 compliant extruding w-beam guardrail end-terminal systems.
A separate false claims case has been filed under state law in the Commonwealth of Virginia by the same party who filed the federal false claims act case in Eastern District of Texas.
The Commonwealth has elected to join the litigation.
In a decision we believe was motivated by this litigation the Virginia Department of Transportation or VDOT recently conducted six separate crash test of the ET Plus System.
All six tests were non-standard under Report 350 test criteria.
Two company representatives and a representative from TTI the products designer were allowed to conduct limited inspections at the test site.
During these inspections the company and TTI observed and noted to VDOT multiple conditions that were inconsistent with Report 350 test criteria.
However VDOT generally ignored the inconsistencies the company brought to their attention.
In the company's opinion the last two crash tests were staged with arbitrary impact conditions contrived to provoke a failed test.
TTI stated it has no confidence in the six crash tests performed by VDOT and also characterized VDOT's test as arbitrary and non-standard.
The company shares TTI's lack of confidence.
Further TTI and the company agreed that changing the criteria under which crash tests are conducted is not only unsound and of utmost concern but altogether indefensible when one roadside safety product is tested to a different set of standards than all others.
The results of VDOT's tests have not yet been published.
However based on the company's and TTI's limited inspections and review of video footage of each test there was no spearing or other intrusion of any test vehicle by the ET Plus System.
Please refer to www.etplusfacts.com/virginia for more information on this issue.
The company is also aware of five false claims act related cases filed under state law by the same party.
In each of these five cases the respective State Attorney General has filed a notice of election to decline intervention in the matter.
In conclusion the ET Plus System is the most crash tested guardrail end-terminal of its type.
Two joint task forces charged with evaluating the ET Plus System and its in-service performance have reported their respective findings and conclusions.
In what has been described as the most thorough evaluation ever conducted on a single class of roadside hardware the FHWA has confirmed that the ET Plus system has been thoroughly crash tested that the product complies with Report 350 crash test criteria and performance evaluation standards and that it has undergone an in-service performance review validating that in-service performance limitations associated with all extruding end-terminal systems are not unique to the ET Plus System.
This confirmation of ET Plus crashworthiness when properly installed maintained and repaired further ratifies the FHWA's consistent position since 2005 that the ET Plus System is acceptable for use on the nation's roadways and has an unbroken chain of eligibility for reimbursement under the Federal-aid highway program.
The company is currently receiving inquiries from customers for potential purchases of ET Plus Systems and will resume shipment of the product as orders are received and accepted.
Our third quarter 10-Q will be filed today.
In note 18 of the 10-Q we provide additional information on the foregoing and other company legal matters.
For additional information and details on the company's positions on these and related issues please refer to www.etplusfacts.com.
I will now turn the call over to Tim.
Thank you Theis and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with Trinity's financial performance during the third quarter.
Our performance continues to reflect the strength of our diversified industrial business model and our ability to shift resources to meet customers' needs.
I am proud of the performance delivered by our employees.
Our Rail Group generated strong quarterly financial results during the third quarter reporting a record profit margin for the second consecutive quarter.
I'm impressed with the way this Group continues to maintain a high level of profitability while shifting its product mix.
During the third quarter our Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group delivered strong year-over-year financial results.
The Group's results were enhanced by sales of leased railcars.
I remain pleased with the progress our team is making with high-quality institutional investors who are looking to invest long-term capital and portfolios of leased railcars.
We expect to continue growing our railcar investment platform.
Our Inland Barge Group financial performance during the third quarter reflects the changing product mix.
The Group continues to demonstrate manufacturing flexibility by shifting production lines as necessary to meet customer demands for specific barge types.
The Energy Equipment Group set a new record for quarterly operating profit during the third quarter substantially improving its results year-over-year.
The successful integration of Meyer Steel Structures contributed to this Group's improved results.
Our Construction Products Group's maintained a comparable profit margin on lower revenues compared to the third quarter last year.
During the third quarter an increased level of uncertainty in the macro economic environment reduced the pace of new order volumes in our business.
As the quarter progressed we observed an increasing level of hesitancy on the part of a number of our customers to make capital investments.
The extended downturn in the price of oil combined with the recent oil price volatility is a factor in much of the uncertainty we see.
Weakness in other commodity prices is also weighing on customers decisions.
At the same time we see positive fundamentals in the automotive and petrochemical sectors.
The next macro environment is resulting in levels of uncertainty occurring at the order placement level.
It's difficult to predict how long this hesitancy will linger.
I'm very confident our businesses are prepared to respond to the shifts and demand for our products.
As we look to the future Trinity is in a position of strength because of the size and quality of the order backlog within our railcar group.
Deliveries of railcars and our backlog will extend through 2020.
Our railcar backlog provides a solid base of production for planning purposes in 2016 and 2017.
In addition our wind tower business has an order backlog that runs through 2016.
Our strong balance sheet and cash flow provides us the ability to remain optimistic and respect to growth opportunities.
We continue to search for acquisition and organic growth opportunities in markets that have products services technologies and competencies that fit within our portfolio of manufacturing businesses.
During the past few years Trinity has been successful in establishing higher earnings platforms relative to our historical performance.
Our current 2015 earning guidance range indicates a new record level for Trinity surpassing record results achieved during the last two years.
Our accomplishments are due to the capabilities and expertise of our dedicated employees our ability to respond effectively to shifts in demand and our ongoing commitment to provide high-quality products and services to our customers.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
During the third quarter the Barge Group reported another solid performance.
The Barge Group received orders for $84 million during the quarter resulting in a backlog of $373 million.
The majority of these orders were for barges serving the dry carbon market which continues to be driven by replacement needs in the agriculture industry.
There is less demand for barges that carry liquid cargo due to the large number of tank barges delivered during the last few years.
We are adjusting our production to better serve demand including idling one of our four manufacturing facilities.
The investments we have made over the past decade have increased our production efficiencies and positioned us to respond effectively as market demand changes.
We are prepared to make additional adjustments to our manufacturing footprint as needed.
The Construction Products Group continues to make the most of a challenging operating environment.
Despite the scheduled expiration of the Federal highway bill at the end of this month and ongoing litigation matters the Group maintained operating margins during the third quarter on lower revenues compared with last year.
This performance is driven by the strength of the construction market in the Southern U.S.
a proposed long-term Federal highway bill would provide our customers the visibility to plan and fund infrastructure projects.
We are closely following the status of the bill.
During the last several years we have been repositioning our Construction Products Group to focus on products with more consistent demand drivers.
The aggregate business an example of this focus has performed very well during 2015.
And we continue to see positive near-term demand drivers.
The energy equipment group recorded another record of level of profit during the third quarter.
Most of the businesses in this group improved their performance quarter-over-quarter.
The wind tower business continued to deliver solid results and had strong visibility for 2016 production plans.
At the end of the third quarter the wind tower backlog totaled $424 million.
While the wind industry has made advancements in reducing the installed cost of wind power near-term demand will likely be dependent on another Federal reduction tax credit.
We are prepared to respond should Congress approve another tax credit in the next few months.
The current market for utility structures remains competitive and has recently experienced some consolidation and industry capacity rationalization.
We continue to see positive long-term investment projections for this industry.
The acquisition of Meyer Steel Structures which we purchased last year during the third quarter positions us well to respond to increased transmission infrastructure spending in both the U.S.
and Mexico.
In closing our businesses are responding effectively to the mixed demand conditions.
We believe these businesses have a great deal of potential as our long-term outlook for energy and infrastructure investment in North America remains positive.
I will now turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
Our talented TrinityRail team delivered another quarter of excellent operating results further testimony to the strength of our integrated railcar manufacturing leasing and services business model.
During the quarter our Rail Group once again exceeded a 20% operating profit margin and our Leasing Group generated another quarter of strong results.
Our operating and financial flexibility and leading market position give us confidence we can effectively adapt to changing market conditions.
As Tim indicated in his remarks uncertainty exists in the industrial economy.
As the third quarter progressed this environment combined with the challenges of navigating new tank car safety regulations is creating hesitancy on the part of industrial customers while in the process of evaluating the capital equipment requirements.
As the quarter progressed orders slowed and have remained below recent order levels into the fourth quarter.
It is too early to discern whether current demand conditions will persist.
Our Rail Group received 3 655 orders during the third quarter.
The orders we received during the third quarter represented a diverse mix of railcars including tank cars covered hoppers flat cars and auto racks.
As a reminder our auto rack orders are not included in the ARCI industry order report.
We continue to see inquiries among a broad array of railcar types reflecting a shift from upstream energy markets to downstream petrochemical and agricultural markets.
The level of automotive related activity is also favorable.
We remain optimistic about long-term demand fundamentals.
These demand drivers combined with the needs to replace aging general purpose freight cars continue to support our view of an extended railcar cycle.
While production levels may be lower during the next few years compared with recent elevated levels third party forecasts continue to expect above-average levels of industry railcar production through 2018.
During the third quarter extended production runs positioned our Rail Group to generate high levels of productivity and led to superior operating performance including a 20% operating profit margin for the second consecutive quarter.
We delivered 8 220 railcars in the third quarter.
We expect to deliver between 8 300 and 9 000 railcars in the fourth quarter.
This would result in full year 2015 deliveries of between 33 750 and 34 500 railcars in 2015 setting a new record level for Trinity.
Our industry-leading backlog of more than 55 000 railcars valued at $6.25 billion at the end of the third quarter gives us very good visibility into future years even in this time of uncertainty in the industrial economy.
We already have more than 23 000 railcars in our backlog planned for delivery next year and we are planning deliveries of 27 000 to 30 000 railcars in 2016.
Our operating flexibility positions us to respond to further shifts in market demand.
The industry's implementation of the new HM-251 tank car regulations is still taking shape.
Various complexities are affecting customers' decisions whether to build new tank cars or to modify existing tank cars for flammable service.
These include the railcar industry's implementation of positive train control systems HM-251 regulatory administrative appeals and litigation challenging new tank car regulations as well as recently implemented railroad tariff actions.
The continued low price of crude oil is further complicating the evaluation process.
As we have indicated previously our first priority is to ensure regulatory compliance of our own railcar fleet.
We have completed HM-251 modifications to our first Group of DOT 111s converting them to meet the new regulations.
We are also in a later stage discussions with several industrial shippers to modify significant portions of their fleets who have in recent years purchase new DOT 111s using flammable service.
We're seeing most inclined to work with the original railcar manufacturer to meet the potential modification requirements.
We have received several orders for new DOT 117s as well.
We continue to believe the new regulations will ultimately be a demand catalyst for new tank cars as well as tank car modifications as the compliance deadlines draw near and challenges to the new regulations are resolved.
The performance of our leasing Group continues to reflect solid railcar fundamentals resulting from high fleet utilization and extended industry backlogs.
Revenue and profit from operations which excludes railcar sales increased by 12% and 10% respectively year-over-year.
Lease fleet utilization is down slightly from last quarter but remains high at 98.5%.
New additions to the wholly-owned lease fleet high fleet utilization levels and healthy leased renewal increases all contributed to a strong third-quarter performance.
Our owned and partially owned lease fleet now stands at 77 140 railcars.
At the end of September 28% of the railcars in our order backlog were committed to customers of our leasing business bringing our leased railcar backlog to approximately $1.8 billion.
During the last 15 years we established a strong lease origination platform integrated our manufacturing and leasing operations and built significant scale in our railcar leasing and management services platform.
In addition we diversified the funding sources for our leased fleet growth to include equity partnerships as well as debt securitizations.
As we did so we saw the opportunity to develop a unique business model that involves originating and managing railcar investment vehicles for institutional investors which in turn supports the growth of our railcar leasing and services platform.
We recently announced a $1 billion extension of our strategic alliance with Element Financial Corporation.
The alliance now extends through 2019 with new purchases under the extension beginning in 2016.
We are delighted to continue to work with Element.
Our team is also making progress in expanding our interface with other key institutional investors in support of our railcar investment vehicle platform.
In summary TrinityRail's integrated business platform is well-positioned and responding effectively to the current demand environment.
The Rail Group and Leasing Management Services Group delivered exceptional results during the third quarter.
Our operating and financial flexibility continues to differentiate TrinityRail and enhancing our position as a premium provider of railcar products and services.
I will now turn it over to James for his comments.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced our results for the third quarter of 2015.
For the quarter the company reported earnings per share of $1.31 and revenues of $1.54 billion compared to EPS and revenues of $0.91 and $1.56 billion respectively for the same period last year.
During the third quarter our EPS reflected strong operating performance on most of our businesses.
During the third quarter the company repurchased 1.56 million shares of its common stock for $40 million.
This year we've repurchased a total of 3.95 million shares of our stock for $115 million and have $104 million available under our current authorization through year end.
We also invested $44 million in capital expenditures during the quarter across a number of our manufacturing businesses and at the corporate level.
Year-to-date this figure totaled $145 million.
During the third quarter we invested approximately $223 million in leased railcar additions to our unleased fleet.
This investment was offset by $219 million of leased railcar sales from our leased fleet.
Leased railcars remain a very good investment for us.
Offering attractive returns and cash flow while the railcars are in our fleet then the opportunity for additional profit recognition was sold to third parties including institutional investors.
Last week we were pleased to announce the extension of our strategic railcar alliance with Element Financial Corporation.
As Steve indicated this extension calls for approximately $1 billion of leased railcars to be sold to Element in 2016 to 2019.
Year-to-date sales of leased railcars to Element totaled approximately $617 million bringing the cumulative total under the existing alliance to more than $1.6 billion since the program began in 2013.
The level of interest in acquiring leased railcars remains high among institutional investors and we continue to make progress in building portfolios of leased railcars for institutional investors who are looking to invest long-term capital in this asset class.
Our railcar investment vehicle platform provides Trinity with a level of financial flexibility that is unique among diversified industrial companies.
The capital generated through our railcar investment vehicle platform provides us with the financial flexibility to reinvest in our railcar leasing and management services platform our portfolio diversified industrial businesses or in other investments to enhance shareholder returns.
We ended the quarter with $678 million of cash on hand and have access to additional capital through our committed lines of credit at both the corporate and leasing levels.
At the end of the third quarter our liquidity position remains strong at $1.9 billion.
As provided in our press release yesterday we increased our annual guidance for 2015.
Our current EPS guidance is $4.65 to $4.90 compared to our prior guidance of $4.45 to $4.75.
This range implies fourth quarter EPS of $0.87 to $1.12.
As Steve mentioned we expect our Rail Group to deliver between 8 300 and 9 000 railcars in the fourth quarter resulting in an approximate annual deliveries of between 33 750 and 34 500 railcars.
We expect fourth quarter revenues of between $1.1 billion and $1.175 billion with an operating margin of between 19.5% and 20.5%.
This results and record results for the year with annual revenues of between $4.45 billion and $4.5 billion with an operating margin of approximately 20%.
TrinityRail's railcar backlog remain strong at over $6.2 billion and continues to provide production visibility for our railcar operations in 2016 and beyond.
Industry railcar orders were reported by ARCI as 7 375 in the third quarter.
As a reminder we do not report our auto rack figures in our submission to ARCI because there is not a specific category provided for this input.
In our press release yesterday and as Steve mentioned Trinity reported 3655 orders for the third quarter.
This unit count includes 1250 auto rack's.
These auto rack orders are in addition to the total figure reported by ARCI.
We are reminding everyone of this detail this quarter due to the larger than normal percentage of our auto rack orders as compared to the total railcar orders reported by ARCI this quarter.
Auto rack's currently comprised 3.5% of our railcar backlog as compared to 3% at this time last year and 2% at this time year ago.
Since 2004 when we began producing auto racks we informed the investment community that we would include auto racks in our quarterly railcar unit figures.
We did this in order to reconcile our revenue and profit figures with our unit counts.
For informational purposes auto racks are superstructures that are installed on top of a railcar and manufactured on our railcar assembly lines.
The pricing for auto racks was very comparable to the average sales price of other freight railcars that we manufacture.
We expect our Leasing Group to record fourth quarter operating revenues excluding leased railcar sales of between $165 million and $185 million with profit from operations of between $65 million and $75 million.
This results in an annual operating revenues of between $685 million and $705 million with operating profit from operations of between $320 million and $330 million.
As we indicated on our last call maintenance expense is expected to be higher in the back half of the year due to timing of the services performed.
In the fourth quarter we expect proceeds from the sales of leased railcars from the Leasing Group of between $105 million and $315 million with profit of $35 million to $85 million.
Year-to-date the Leasing Group has reported proceeds from the sales of leased railcars of $525 million with profit of $164 million.
The wide range around the fourth quarter guidance reflects the transactional nature of these sales and the potential for timing to change.
Our guidance assumes we substantially fulfill our existing alliance with Element.
As a reminder sales to third parties may be recorded in the Rail and Leasing Groups.
Sales of Leased railcars to third parties that were recorded within the Rail Group have been $176 million year-to-date.
In the fourth quarter we expect to eliminate between $400 million and $430 million of revenues and differ between $90 million and $110 million of operating profit.
Year-to-date revenue and profit eliminations were $783 million and $164 million respectively.
We expect eliminations to be higher in the fourth quarter than previously expected due to the timing of railcars sold from the leased fleet.
We expect our energy equipment group to generate fourth quarter revenues of between $250 million and $275 million with operating profit of between $30 million and $35 million.
These expectations result in 2015 revenues of between $1.12 billion and $1.15 billion with an operating margin of 13% to 13.5% due to productivity improvements.
We expect our Construction Products Group to record fourth quarter revenues of between $100 million and $125 million resulting in annual revenues of between $520 million and $545 million.
We expect operating profit between $52 million and $57 million for the full year.
This Group continues to experience headwinds associated with uncertainty around State and Federal highway funding in addition to the ongoing highway litigation.
We continue to be pleased with the performance and opportunities within our aggregates business.
Our Inland Barge Group is expected to report fourth quarter revenues of between $135 million and $150 million resulting in 2015 revenues of between $640 million and $655 million.
Fourth quarter operating profit is expected to be between $20 million and $25 million with the full-year operating margin of 18% to 18.5%.
Our annual EPS guidance also includes the following assumptions.
A tax rate of approximately 33.7% corporate expenses expected to range from $125 million to $135 million which includes ongoing litigation related expenses.
The deduction of between $30 million and $35 million of non-controlling earnings due to our partial ownership in TRIP and IV 2013 a reduction of $0.17 per share due to the two-class method of accounting compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of income statement and dilution of approximately $0.06 per share from the convertible notes.
As it pertains to cash flow we now expect the annual net cash investment in railcars added to our leased fleet to be between $280 million and $480 million in 2015.
Our guidance incorporates the range we discussed for fourth quarter proceeds from the sales of leased railcars from the Leasing Group.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditures for 2015 are now expected to be between $200 million and $240 million.
We believe Trinity is uniquely positioned within the industrial sector compared to prior periods of economic uncertainty.
Backlogs in our railcar manufacturing and wind towers businesses provides support to our production planning in 2016 and railcar manufacturing has backlog into 2020.
However as we plan for 2016 we anticipate the slowdown in the industrial economies we're currently observing to impact our businesses especially those that have limited visibility into next year.
And keeping with our normal practice we plan to provide specific earnings guidance for 2016 when we report our fourth quarter earnings.
We look forward to the opportunities ahead of us.
As we prepare for our question-and-answer session please note that Theis' remarks today pertaining to our highway litigation were very thorough.
We ask that your questions today focus on our operations and financial performance.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Just going back on to the Element deal I think the original commitment was $2 billion and $1.6 billion was done today.
Should we assume the balance being fully completed in 2015 or is some of that moving as part of that extension at this point? Allison what we've said this is James the new agreement is $1 billion that starts in 2016.
We expect to substantially complete the initial strategic alliance with Element this year.
And we've given a wide range of sales which includes Element as well as potential sales to other third-party institutional investors.
Okay fair enough.
And then also you talked about I guess on a high-level changes potentially in mix.
Are there any sort of line changeovers or anything that we need to be aware of in Q4 that could impact the rail manufacturing margin? Allison this is Steve.
Sure we have some line changeovers.
I'm just so pleased with our organization's ability to make those changes effectively.
We become very productive and efficient doing those.
And I don't think they quite have the adverse effect that they once had.
So certainly all of that's been included in any of our projections both on the volume and operating margin standpoint.
Great thank you.
And we can take our next question from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Congrats guys on another great quarter and a year that has definitely exceeded some high expectations while we are entering the year.
Looking to 2016 where you gave some comments I want to dig in a little more what's your strategy for managing the down slope from the railcar peak that we're looking at in 2015 here or any other segments that you like to comment on? This is Tim.
As far as managing decreases in orders and demand we're really proficient at that.
We have team meetings with all of our business leaders.
We talk about capacity that we have available enterprise wise as well as demand that we may have.
So we really count on our manufacturing flexibility to kick in as best that we can.
And then in some cases we have to idle production lines and as Bill mentioned we have idled a facility.
And so we are highly equipped to be able to deal with the ups and the downs.
And Bascome this is Steve.
Just to add on to that certainly line changeovers and product conversions are normal course of our business and I think Trinity has proven that the breath of the entire product line for the company allows us additional flexibility.
We've converted plants from producing wind towers to tank cars back to freight cars and back to wind towers.
So we really are very dynamic in that regard and I think our manufacturing flexibility of our footprint really allows us to respond to shifts in the marketplace very effectively.
No understood and we've certainly seen that in the past.
I appreciate that you don't want to guide anything more explicit and you gave a lot of color on 2016 already.
But from a modeling standpoint when we think about decremental margins as revenue start to come down should we think about kind of planning for something similar to the incremental as you achieve in the way up or is the math in there a little fuzzier and we need to consider some things that we may not be? Well this is Steve again Bascome.
With respect to at least margins in the railcar business certainly margins are ultimately going to be a reflection of the product mix that is produced in any given quarter and we're going to continue to work on productivity and improve those operating profit margins and again our team really has distinguished themselves in those achievements.
I would like to also remind you that the railcars we produce or plan to produce in 2016 are for cars that we took orders for in 2014 and 2015 during very very strong market demand dynamics.
So we have expectations that we’ll continue to perform well and our business will reflect those margins.
All right so I guess you're alluding to the pricing you'll see on that decent portion of next year's production plan that's already in the backlog will be kind of similar to the pricing that you're producing right now that's generating some of these really excellent margins? I think generally yes.
Yes.
This is Tim.
When we were ratcheting up or ratcheting down it's always very difficult for us to predict precisely where the margin will end up.
We have a lot of competent people that are involved with this.
But as we get closer as James said at the end of the fourth quarter when we're giving our guidance at that time we'll be able to give more specific insights on what we're anticipating as far as margins go.
Right now we're just kind of talking about production planning and how we're looking at our business and what we are planning for.
Understood I really appreciate the color today guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Justin Long with Stephens.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good morning guys.
Good morning.
You gave some helpful commentary on 2016 expectations for the Rail Group but I was wondering if you could share how much visibility you have in your tank car backlog for 2016? I know there are some longer-term orders like the agreement with GATX but I wanted to get a sense of your visibility specifically related to tank cars over the next year or so? Steve? Sure.
Justin we historically haven't broken out our production plans and backlogs by tank car freight car what have you.
Although suffice it to say that we're very confident about our production plans given where we are today and in our backlog we have a very healthy mix of tank cars as well as a healthy mix of freight cars.
And we do have some plants this is Tim we have do some plants that have been able to demonstrate that they can shift from tank cars to freight cars and this is rather new to our company over the last five years.
I've been very impressed how our barge people have been able to shift from tank barge to hopper barge and how our railcar manufacturing plants have been able to shift from tank car to freight car in fact I think there's a shift going on right now in that particular area and that was what Steve was saying how impressed he was.
I echo that.
Okay that's helpful.
And maybe to ask it a different way you mentioned 23 000 railcar orders that you have locked in for next year.
Based on that would you say that the percentage between tank deliveries and non-tank deliveries is pretty similar to what you're seeing here in 2015 or do you expect that mix to change? Well when we talk about the deliveries we're planning of 27 000 to 30 000 through 2016 certainly we're also seeing a shift in demand as I mentioned from the upstream energy markets to downstream petrochemical and agricultural and the automotive markets.
And in there implies a shift perhaps to more freight cars from tank cars.
Okay great that's helpful.
And last question now that the GE fleet has been sold and we got that announcement during the quarter I was wondering if you could comment on how you think this could impact the competitive dynamics in the leasing market? Do you view this as a positive negative or neutral to your business? Sure.
Justin thanks.
Steve again.
First of all GE has been a good customer of ours.
We built a number of new cars for them.
Wells Fargo/First Union has always been a good customer of ours and we currently have cars in our backlog for them as well.
So I don't think it really has a material effect on our manufacturing business.
And we've demonstrated on the leasing side that we have been able to compete effectively with those folks as well.
So I clearly don't have any concerns from it and we're just moving forward business as usual.
Great that's helpful.
I appreciate the time.
And our next question comes from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So kind of a follow-up question on Element.
The billion dollars of extension can you provide a little bit of color in terms of potential cadence of railcar sales to Element over those four years and maybe more color on what 2016 could look like? Yes.
Matt this is James.
We really can't at this time.
We work with Element on specific portfolios as we go throughout the year.
Now that we have a long-term agreement just as we did the last two years.
We will work with them to make sure that we may have diversified portfolios and we're not providing any specific guidance this early into the agreement as to what the cadence may look like.
But we're very pleased and as Steve said delighted to continue to work with Element they're confident in us to continue to build deliver and manage railcars for them is very good for us.
Okay.
And then I guess the extension itself does anything change with this particular agreement the extension? I'm just trying to think about not only the sales but the profit contribution potential with this incremental billion dollars moving forward? Yes.
Matt this is James again.
I'd say generally it's the same type of agreement just a nice extension of what we already had in place.
Okay.
On the DOT 117 orders that you took in the quarter can you provide a little bit of color in terms of where those cars are bound from an end market perspective? And then any further update in terms of regulation and the timing of potential incremental orders would be helpful? Matt Steve again.
Yes we have taken orders for new DOT 117s.
Those cars are all going into flammable service.
And a number going into flammable service beyond crude oil so we're certainly starting to see some of the other customers who ship flammable products make decisions about their fleets.
Okay.
Appreciate the time.
Thanks Matt.
And we can take our next question from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Just a couple of questions.
First on the leased fleet utilization decline.
Can you give us some color as to whether that's just demand related or is that part of the issue surrounding new retrofitting some of your own tank cars to meet the new standards? Art this is Steve.
I think the answer to your question is actually yes.
It's a little bit of both where we've had perhaps some cars return to us from either ethanol or crude oil shippers and taken the advantage of the time off lease to prepare those to be ready for deployment and some of those have been cars that we have performed modifications to.
Right thank you.
And then secondly I just wanted to touch on the Element extension as well.
That $1 billion is not currently in the backlog is that correct? Yes Art this is James.
Remember orders from an agreement like Element don't create backlog orders from Element will be cars that we originate leases on.
We have $1.8 billion of leasing backlog already on our books some of that will potentially go to Element and some is to be originated most likely and some is already in our existing fleet.
So what Element does is give us confidence in capital sources as we enter the market to originate leases.
So we know now that for each of the next several years we've got a good level of sales of leased railcars to a good partner.
Great thank you.
Just actually one other one if I could and it goes back to kind of the flexibility you have in your manufacturing operations.
As you talked about in one of -- in the parts business you shuttered a facility for the moment.
But as you go forward and if you start to take down lines in the railcar side or maybe close facilities there how do you handle the labor situation? I know it's always if things were to turn on you to get quality labor back are you able to transfer labor and if so does that create a little bit of an overhang are you just kind of let everybody go and kind of make a long-term decision about closing the facility? Art Steve again.
Good question.
Certainly we've been very very successful when we ramped up our operations from 2009 to the levels we are today.
That's been a tremendous undertaking from our operations team and developing a highly productive labor force.
And it certainly are intended towards very very hard to try to keep that labor force in place.
This is where we may be pairing that back production at our manufacturing facilities.
We have some opportunities to transfer some of that labor into our maintenance services business are we are making investments expanding operations there.
So we're very very conscious of wanting to maintain our experienced and talented labor we'll do so as best we can.
Yes.
Art this is Tim.
It's also geographically a geographical question in certain communities where we have other types of manufacturing operations occurring then sometimes we can shift employees from one location to another location or we can do as Steve said is maybe shift a product and bring in a new product line.
And recently we've been shifted a plant to where it was helping in our research and development and building some of our tooling and fixturing.
So we really look at the workforce as a resource and some value that they bring and then we deal with low type demand for products we have and what work we can place in their to maintain the highly skilled people.
Thank you so much.
That's great color on that.
And thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Art.
And we will take out next question from Eric Crawford with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Thanks good morning guys.
I guess following up on Bascome's line of questioning.
I was curious about the cadence on deliveries you're envisioning for 2016.
I'm sure it's flexible but as you're envisioning it now any first half second half split would be helpful? Are you talking about cadence of railcar deliveries or what product are you talking about? Right.
Railcar deliveries yes.
Okay.
James you want to --? Sure Eric.
We're not able to get cadence at this time.
We certainly have production planning in place.
The good thing about a backlog of more than 23 000 railcars for 2016 we certainly have some good production planning visibility.
And I think I would just point back to Steve's guidance of 27 000 to 30 000 railcars next year.
But at this point given product mix in those type of things we're not able to give more specifics at this time we will do that when we get to our fourth quarter conference call.
Okay.
Fair enough.
On leasing what was the average length of lease term for the renewals in the quarter? Can you share that? We don't typically share that Eric and appreciate your interest.
I will tell you we're seeing healthy renewals both as a percentage of those cars expiring and we're also pleased with the renewal rate increases we saw in our fleet during that period.
Eric the average remaining term has been right around 3.3 3.4 years for several quarters now as you always have leases coming off and then putting on new leases and renewing that's been pretty steady for more than a year now.
Okay.
No thank you I appreciate that.
That is what I suspected but just wanted to confirm that.
And then lastly for me the profit in Energy Group was really strong this quarter.
It sounds like the utility business is still a little competitive out there.
Was it more storage or wind towers or were there any one-time items to call out there for the strength in profitability? There are no one-time items to call out this is Bill for the strength.
Overall as I said earlier on our conference call script that all the businesses did particularly good.
There is some weakness or tightness in the utility market but the rest of the business came along strong and cover the segment as a whole.
Fair enough.
Great quarter guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Eric.
And our next question comes from Thom Albrecht with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys most of my questions have been answered.
I just wanted to kind of clarify something I thought I heard.
Relative to the production or delivery goal of 27 000 to 30 000 for next year I don't know if you exactly said this or not would you expect tanks to be about the same percentage of those deliveries as they were in 2015? Tom this is Steve.
I don't think we gave an indication as to a split of tank or freight cars in those projections.
And I think I did mention that in demand we're seeing a shift to a broader array of freight cars and that would probably manifest itself in orders and production in 2016 and 2017.
Yes.
I think I did catch that but I thought I also heard that maybe the revenue per car might be similar in 2016 2015 despite the car type shift? I don't.
Or did I not hear that? I don't think you heard that Tom.
Okay.
All right thank you.
And we will take our next question from Kristine Kubacki with Avondale Partners.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
I just had a question it sounds like you do have a little bit of build slots open in the fourth quarter for 2016.
How is the pricing environment out there? I mean I know mix is a component of that that has the pricing environment softened given that things seem to be opening a little bit more in 2016? Kristine this is Steve.
Certainly it's difficult to make broad generalizations statements about pricing because different markets have different behavioral characteristics based upon leased fleet utilization based upon production backlogs.
In those areas where we have shorter backlogs and leased fleet utilizations we can expect some weaker pricing.
Where we see strong demand we're seeing good pricing.
So generally it's hard to make those generalizations and really looking at a market by market car type basis.
Okay.
And then just a quick question I had I think it's probably [indiscernible] but just I guess my question is on the orders that were placed kind of in the 2013 and 2014 timeframe that you say are for delivery in 2016 now.
I mean have you seen a critical mass of you said it shifted to more freight car specific? Where those kind of placed as tank cars and now being shifted to other car types? And then I guess a follow-on to that would be -- have you had many push out in terms of are you working with customers to delay delivery into 2017 and beyond? Thanks again Kristine for the question.
This is Steve.
We answer the last question first of.
Our projections reflect any conversations we've had with customers who are trying to accommodate their delivery time and that really is a normal course of business for us.
These railcars many times are tied to the completion of capital expansion projects and the timing of those railcars has to coordinate with production for customers so that is not an unusual activity for us.
And again that projections that we've given to you for our plans next year include any consideration in that regard.
The first part of your question we're really the orders that we're referring to orders taken in 2014 and 2015 for production in 2016 while there was significant tank car orders the first this time we also took a number of freight car orders there reflecting interest in the downstream petrochemical markets and those are also railcars that will be producing in 2016.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much for the time.
I appreciate it.
And we can take our next question from Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon good morning thank you.
My first question relates to the leasing portfolio and to the comments you just made in terms of different behaviors by different markets.
Can you just talk about broadly how much of your portfolio is exposed to -- tied to these upstream markets that are slowing versus the growing areas that you mentioned downstream petchem and compare how lease renewals are performing in each of the two areas? Thank you.
Cleo this is James.
We did not nor do we disclose specific car types in the portfolio other than that it's a very diverse portfolio.
In any given year we have a certain number of leases that expire and are up our renewal we're very successful in that respect with an average lease term of 3 to 3.5 years about 15% to 20% roll over in any given year and that's across all car types.
So as Steve said certain markets have their own characteristics in any different type of cycle.
We have given some indication of how many cars we have in flammable service which is between 11 000 and 12 000 but beyond upstream and downstream and other car types we just don't get that specific but it's a broad mix of cars and we're pleased with the diversification that our team has put together.
Maybe again I would reiterate earlier that I said we're very pleased with our renewal activity it was a high percentage of the cars that were expiring and we're very pleased with the renewal rate increases we saw on those cars.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
Then my second question relates to institutional interests.
I'm wondering what are the dynamics that in order to be in -- perhaps slowing the speed at which these deals could be signed would you be especially setting a reference point in the market at leased.
Why there may be what I perceive was a wait-and-see attitude.
Is it people are looking to see where demand shapes -- enters the demand into 2016 thinking every time China cuts rates real asset portfolios to appear more and more attractive? Cleo this is Steve.
I said first of all I think the acquisition of the GE fleets by Wells Fargo First Union continues to reflect strong interest in these types of assets.
And certainly Wells Fargo is a very very fine financial institution.
There continues to be significant institutional capital interest in investing in this asset class.
What we're really looking for is institutional investors that have a long-term perspective on the business and who are prepared to work with us on a long-term basis.
I think there's a lot of institutions who would like to buy railcars near-term really looking to develop long-term partnership's to support our railcar investment platform and those are the type of investors that we continue to talk with and as we have other partnership's developed we'll bring those to the market and make those announcements at that time.
And do you see yourselves possibly co-investing with them or you think this is of course capital to go to other areas? Clear this is James.
I don't think we're at this point ready to talk about what future plans might be.
But we certainly invested with our partners in the past and we've done investment vehicles where we're not an investor but as we said we have a large wholly-owned leased fleet a partially owned leased fleet and the nature of these transactions going forward is to be determined.
It's a very dynamic good market for us.
My last question at an industry conference last week there seem to be a very dynamic debate about boxcars with some railroads trying to encourage their customers to order homogenous type for their operations and even suggesting they might be willing to support mini bubble through encourage that replacement whereas other opinions were that we are not in a boxcar shortage but railroad speed shortage or turnover shortage.
So what do you think that particular car type shaping up in terms of demand and how are you looking to potentially participate in that? And thank you very much.
Sure Cleo Steve again.
I think is important to recognize a long-lived assets and I think decisions that are made to invest in these assets have to have a long-term perspective often many times we hear comments about what's going on in the spot market tends to influence some people's long-term perspectives.
More importantly I think with respect to boxcars is an aged fleet it has not seen much investment over recent years and inevitably I think there will be additional investment in the boxcar fleet.
I'm sorry forgot to ask about you mentioned the proposed life extension for 65 years and what could that do to orders? At this point Cleo I really don't have an opinion on that.
I mean railcars statutory life is 50 years as it is.
So that's still an awfully long time.
Perhaps when you're looking at modifications and making investment in existing cars the extended life helps the analysis.
Thank you very much.
And we can take our next question from Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
First as a clarification.
If I heard right you expect deliveries of 27 000 to 30 000 next year and 23 of those are in backlog right now; is that right? That's correct.
Is that outlook based on you maintaining current market share for new orders plus or minus? Steve you've been kind of following us for a long time you know that we don't really drive our business based upon market share.
But certainly even at these demand levels we have confidence that we can achieve our plan of producing between 27 000 and 30 000 railcars in 2016.
Right.
Well and I guess just from a planning perspective do you expect that most of the orders you take next year will be for delivery next year or are you expecting to take them across the spectrum of multiple years? I think it's most likely a spectrum over multiple years again it ties to win capital projects are being completed for our customers.
And there's an awful a lot of spending still going on in the Gulf Coast with projects coming on stream between 2016 and 2019.
And so we're going to stage our production and deliveries to meet the needs of our customers which ranges over a period of time.
Got it.
Next capital allocation question.
Obviously you have a lot of current liquidity a lot of cash flow in backlog.
I'm sure you're seeing deals come across your desk.
Can you talk about the revenue range for those deals in general from a small into the big end? Steve this is James.
You seeing us with acquisitions in the relatively small level about $20 million $30 million $40 million transactions we did early in 2014 as large as the $600 million Meyer Steel Structures acquisition we did August last year.
So we got a wide range as Tim talked about we're looking for organic growth opportunities acquisition opportunities as you said if they come across our desk.
We do have good capital that we can invest and we continue to generate good cash flow.
We've done well in the share repurchase this year in terms of how much of authorization we have used.
We have raised our dividend.
And we continue to invest in maintenance CapEx and growth CapEx internally here.
So it's a broad spectrum of opportunities in front of us and as a management team sits and works with our board we consider those things that we can go out and seek proactively and those things that we see in the market as well.
Yes the motivation for the question was just trying to think about the high-end.
Would you do $600 million plus deal or $1 billion deal if you found something attractive or do you really favor smaller deals where you can just tuck things in? This is Tim.
It's really about the quality of the fit and the quality of the company and the value that we think the entity will bring to us.
We do have a preference for larger deals.
We're very pleased with the deal we did last year.
So we'll -- we're out their fishing and we don't hesitate to bring in a big fish or if there's a smaller fish that's going to have a lot of value them we'll bring that one is as well.
Got it.
And last question you paid down about $300 million in debt this year and leverage on the wholly-owned leased fleet has been coming down.
What's the thought process behind reducing debt versus putting that cash towards the buyback or just keeping it on the balance sheet? Well Steve I think -- this is James.
Certainly some has gone to share repurchase as well as reinvesting in our leased fleet and other types of things we have done this year including organic CapEx.
The debt paid down for opportunistic there are some scheduled amortization we had some opportunistic debt repurchases early in the year that gives us a nice number of unencumbered leased railcars which is about $1.5 billion right now as you see in our 10-Qs quarter-to-quarter.
That allows us to really be able to have nice diversified offerings for our railcar investment vehicle partners.
So as those investors see new cars coming off the production line having railcars unencumbered also allows us to offer those in that same portfolio.
We would not hesitate to use some leverage as we have in the past if we have the opportunity and need the capital but right now we have been able to generate cash flow to cover those needs this year.
Got it.
Thanks for the time.
Thanks Steve.
And we will take our next question from Mike Baudendistel with Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Just wanted to ask you is there much difference in the cost structure of your various railcar manufacturing facilities? And if so is there any opportunity to produce with the decline in railcar production next year to produce fewer cars at the higher cost facilities or is that something that comes into play? Sure Mike this is Steve again.
We're constantly evaluating and optimizing our production mix different competencies different skill levels different cost and also access to market.
So those are all considerations but conceivably yes we have that ability to optimize.
Okay great.
And then also I wanted to ask you on the leasing -- the lease rates you've provided if you get to a point could you see a point next year or so where lease rates continue to come down and then it wouldn't make it economic to put additional cars in your leased fleet.
It doesn't sound like from your prepared comments that you had any changes to strategy in terms of managing your leased fleet? Mike Steve again.
It's hard to answer that question but in general I think we have to put the market conditions into general perspective.
From a historical perspective railcar productions expected to be greater than historical averages.
We still have very strong fleet utilization and we still have extended backlogs.
Typically those are underlying fundamentals for a good renewal rate increases and overall solid railcar leasing.
Obviously when you look at different car types there's different dynamics in each one of those.
Yes.
This is Tim.
Also the railcars are a long life asset as you all are talking before and during time periods where we have customers that we've done business with for quite a while and they've got good credit ratings and their wanting to place cars and the market conditions are such that we may not be able to get as much as we were able to attain in a higher market.
We'll go ahead and lease the car for shorter period of time.
We did that in the 2008 2009 2010 time period and a lot of those leases expired in the 2012 2013 2014 time period.
And we were able to renew them at higher rates.
And we look at it as a long life asset.
And so we stay in the market during pretty much good seasons and the slower time periods.
Great that's helpful.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
And we will take our last question from Bill Baldwin with Baldwin Anthony Securities.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Steve did I hear you say or am I just thinking this that you're seeing some productivity improvements in your Meyer Steel operation? I think it would be Bill.
Bill I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
We certainly have -- we now have Meyer right out of the year and have had an opportunity to have the Trinity manufacturing team assist the Meyer team with efficiencies and ling layouts where we can -- we complete what we see.
The market itself is still tight and highly competitive but I like what I'm seeing on the shop floor.
Are we fairly early on you think Bill in our learning curve there in our lean manufacturing issues there with Meyer? Is there more to come? Yes.
I think -- call it third fourth or anyways we still have got a lot of opportunity to go but I'm pleased with what we've done so far.
An amazing thing about lean is you put a new group of people looking at a production process and the ideas that they come up with.
We've been practicing this in my career for 20-30 years at least.
And our people come up with some very clever innovative ways of streamlining and reducing cost and enhancing the quality of the products so there's really never an end to that I don't think the game ever stops.
You've shown that with your manufacturing in the railcar area Tim and Steve that's for darn sure.
Yes.
Thank you.
As far as the plants that came with the Meyer acquisition Bill are you still basically operating out of those same plants or has that changed somewhat also in terms of railcar a bit? There were four facilities that came with the Meyer transaction and then Trinity had one facility.
We have announced a one notice for one shift at one of the four Meyer facilities right now just as we optimize the production for the demand that's in the marketplace as well as the delivery area for the products that are being ordered.
Okay.
And Steve I might have missed this but a couple of housekeeping items did you indicate how many cars were shipped to the leased fleet from your railcar manufacturing this quarter? I don't think I mentioned that but we certainly have that number available.
It's about 2300 so it's about -- running about 30% which is normal for us Bill this is James.
Okay.
Okay.
And do you all disclose how many cars were sold out of the fleet or is that just a dollar number? It's more of a dollar number.
Again this quarter you had a general offset you invested about $220 million you sold about $218 million so a general offset.
But we don't get quite that granular.
Okay.
Good job.
Thank you Bill.
Thank you.
Okay.
With no more questions that concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1:00 o'clock Eastern Standard Time today through Midnight on October 30 2015.
The access number is 402-220-0116.
Also the replay will be available on the Web site located at www.trin.net.
We look forward visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day and welcome to the Trinity Industries Inc.
Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.
Currently all phone lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there'll be an opportunity to ask questions during a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised today's program maybe recorded.
Before we get started let me remind you that today's conference call contains forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes statements as to estimates expectations intentions and predictions of future financial performance.
Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking.
Participants are directed to Trinity's Form 10-K and other SEC filings for a description of certain of the business issues and risks a change in any of which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Ms.
Gail Peck.
You may begin.
Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Trinity Industries' fourth quarter 2015 results conference call.
I'm Gail Peck Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Trinity.
Thank you for joining us today.
Similar to the format we have used on our recent earnings call we will begin with an update on the Highway Products litigation matter.
We will then follow with our normal quarterly earnings conference call format.
Today's speakers are Theis Rice Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer; Tim Wallace our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President; Bill McWhirter Senior Vice President and Group President of the Construction Products Energy Equipment and Inland Barge Groups; Steve Menzies Senior Vice President and Group President of the Rail and Railcar Leasing Groups; and James Perry our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following their comments we will then move to the Q&amp;A session.
Mary Henderson our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer is also in the room with us today.
I will now turn the call over to Theis Rice.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
In my comments today I will refer to Trinity Industries and Trinity Highway Products together as Trinity.
As previously reported Trinity has appealed to the Fifth Circuit the June 2015 False Claims Act judgment involving the ET Plus guardrail end terminal system.
We will file our opening brief next month with full briefing by the parties to follow.
We expect the Fifth Circuit will not issue a ruling in this case earlier than late 2016.
I would like to reiterate a few points related to this appeal.
First Trinity believes strongly in its appellate arguments we are confident that no fraud was committed and we believe there are strong legal grounds for the Fifth Circuit to overturn the judgment.
Second we stand 100% behind our product the ET Plus System and we are selling it today.
In the fall of 2015 after completing what the Federal Highway Administration termed the most thorough evaluation of a roadside device ever conducted the FHWA reconfirmed yet again that the ET Plus Systems in use today on the nation's roadways meet all federal testing criteria and performance evaluation standards.
And that the system has been and remains fully eligible for Federal-aid reimbursement.
We have also previously reported that the Commonwealth of Virginia has intervened in the state court action under the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act filed by the same party who filed the Federal False Claims Act case.
In an order entered by the Virginia court on January 27 2016 the commonwealth's case was stayed pending resolution of the Federal False Claims Act case currently on appeal.
The same party who filed the Federal False Claims Act case and the Virginia case has also filed six other state False Claims Act cases under each states law.
Each of these six states has declined to intervene in or join the case filed in their state and all six cases are currently stayed.
Please refer to www.etplusfacts.com/virginia for more information on the Virginia litigation.
Our 2015 10-K will be filed today.
In Note 18 of the 10-K we provide additional information on the foregoing and other company legal matters.
For information and details on the company's positions on these and related issues please refer to www.etplusfacts.com.
I would like to conclude my comments today by sharing a few very important facts and making a brief statement.
For over 80 years Trinity has operated with the highest level of integrity.
Our reputation for honesty and ethical business practices has beyond question and underscores the rock solid foundation on which we have built the market leading positions we earned and maintained year after year.
Trinity's Highway Products business unit has played an integral role in bringing innovative life-saving products to market.
We have aligned our sales with world-class researchers and engineers who share our vision for highway safety.
We employed dedicated workers who manufacture products like the ET Plus System to the highest levels of craftsmanship.
And we deliver market-leading products that meet rigorous standards.
I believe accusations of fraud against Trinity are unwarranted and erroneous and we will pursue every legal avenue to reverse the False Claims Act judgment.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Tim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Theis and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased with Trinity's financial performance during 2015.
For the third straight year we established records for revenues net income and earnings per share.
Our business has created value by leveraging their combined expertise competencies and manufacturing capacity to produce high-quality products for broad range of industrial market.
The most recent quarter completes an impressive five-year period in which our company has demonstrated a solid track record of growth.
During that five-year time period revenues more than tripled going from $1.9 billion to $6.4 billion.
In 2015 earnings per share and net income were 11 times greater than in 2010.
From 2010 to 2015 net income increased from $67 million to $797 million and earnings per share grew from $0.43 per share to $5.08 per share.
Our financial performance during the last five years is a great example of the potential we have as a company.
Our company is on a transformational journey and has made significant progress during the past five years towards our vision of being a premier diversified industrial company.
We've added new businesses to our portfolio with long-term growth potential and we have invested in our manufacturing footprint to increase efficiency and flexibility.
Pre-tax profit from our Railcar Leasing and Management Services operations has more than tripled since 2010.
We have also enhanced our company's earnings and cash flow through the development of the RIV platform.
Our guidance for 2016 reflects the weakening in the industrial economy that again broadly impacting our businesses late last summer.
As I stated in our third quarter conference call most of the industrial companies we serve are continuing to take wait and see approach to capital investment.
At this time it continues to be difficult to predict when demand will improve.
Our 2016 earnings guidance assumes that the economic conditions will continue throughout the year.
In this environment we're placing a high priority on cost containment and various initiatives to enhance our performance.
We will continue to reposition and streamline our manufacturing operations as business conditions fluctuate.
Over my 40-year career at Trinity I participated in a number of business cycles.
Our business leaders have a proven track record for balancing staffing levels and all types of markets.
I'm confident our businesses will respond to the shift in demand for our products.
Historically we have made strategic investments during downturn.
Our liquidity position and balance sheet strength have never been better.
In summary I'm extremely proud of our team's accomplishments during 2015 and throughout this up cycle.
Trinity's corporate business model is built on the premise that we enrich companies we own by leveraging to strengths contained within our enterprise as a whole.
Trinity's employees do a fabulous job of collaborating as they manufacture high-quality products for our customers while creating value for our shareholders.
Our operating and financial flexibility enabled us to pursue a variety of opportunities as well as successfully confront market challenges.
I'm confident that Trinity will emerge from a current period of uncertainty as a stronger company.
Our goal is to continually improve upon the superior products and services we provide to our customers and the returns we generate for our shareholders.
I'll now turn it over to Bill for his comments.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
The Barge Group's fourth quarter performance reflects several factors.
The competitive dynamics occurring within the industry a less favorable product mix and the closure of one of our facilities.
Our Barge team is doing an outstanding job of maintaining production efficiencies and reducing costs as we align our production footprint with current demand.
The Barge Group received orders for $190 million during the quarter resulting in a backlog of $416 million at the end of December.
Replacement needs for dry cargo barges drove fourth quarter orders.
Current inquiry levels indicate lower barge demand and subsequently lower manufacturing levels in the near-term when compared to the past few years.
The investments in our Barge business in recent years have increased this group's production efficiencies and positioned our Barge team to respond effectively to changes in market demand.
We are prepared to make additional adjustments to our manufacturing footprint as needed.
The Construction Products Group improved quarterly profitability year-over-year despite the slowdown that typically takes place during the winter months.
At the end of the year the Federal Government passed a five-year $305 billion funding bill for highways and other related transit programs.
The FAST Act authorizes funding through 2021 and will provide much needed stability for public agencies charged with planning transportation projects.
Our Highway Products business anticipates an improvement in market demand over the next few years.
Demand for Aggregates remains robust in the markets we serve in the South Western United States repositioning our Construction Products business during the last few years and continuing to expand our Aggregates business has benefited this group's overall performance.
We are committed to finding opportunities to expand our product portfolio and grow our market positions.
The Energy Equipment Group reported another strong quarter and ended the year with record revenues and operating profit.
The wind tower business continues to deliver solid results.
At the end of the fourth quarter the wind tower backlog totaled $371 million most of which will be delivered in 2016.
This level of production essentially fills the manufacturing space currently dedicated to this business.
At the end of 2015 the Federal Government passed a five-year spending bill that includes a tax incentive for the wind industry through 2019.
In recent years legislation for wind power tax incentives was unpredictable and short in duration causing volatility in the wind industry.
The multi-year federal incentive provides developers and their supply-chain partners the necessary time needed to plan and develop wind projects.
We are prepared to adjust our capacity should demand increase significantly.
The current market for utility structures remains highly competitive and continues to experience some capacity rationalization.
We expect revenues for this business to decline further in 2016.
Over the long-term investment forecast are positive.
The recently passed federal tax incentive for wind power is expected to drive the development of additional transmission infrastructure to bring new wind power to market.
In closing our business is responding effectively to changing demand conditions.
We believe these businesses have significant growth potential as our long-term outlook for energy and infrastructure investment in North America remains positive.
And now I'll turn the presentation over to Steve.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
The TrinityRail team completed another record quarter in terms of railcar deliveries profit and operating margin as well as its second consecutive year of record revenues profit and railcar deliveries.
In 2015 our Rail Group achieved a 20.9% operating profit margin on deliveries of 34 295 railcars.
Our Leasing Group grew year-over-year revenue and profit from operations by 11% and 15% respectively while generating significant income and cash flow from the sales of these railcars through the railcar investment vehicle platform.
TrinityRail's outstanding performance reflects the strength of our integrated railcar manufacturing leasing and services business model.
Our operating and financial flexibility and leading market position give us confidence we can effectively adapt to rapidly changing market conditions.
The weakness in the industrial sector of the economy along with declining railcar loadings improved rail cycle times and increasing numbers of railcars and storage is creating a challenging set of market dynamics.
We are aligning our production footprint to a lower rate of production while meeting our scheduled railcar backlog delivery requirements.
Our Rail Group received 2 455 orders during the fourth quarter.
The orders we receive represent a mix of tank cars covered hoppers flat cars and autoracks.
Industry orders for the fourth quarter affirmed a weaker demand trend that began in the third quarter.
In total more than 53 000 orders were placed in 2015 a healthy level by historical standards.
However industry orders in the second half of 2015 declined approximately 50% compared to the level of orders in the first half of 2015 indicating a significant shift toward a weakening demand trend.
First quarter 2016 inquiry levels continue at a weakened level.
We are seeing pockets of demand however the level of automotive related activity remains favorable.
The outlook of new petrochemical capacity coming online during the next few years is positive.
We remain optimistic regarding long-term railcar demand fundamentals as third-party independent forecast project industry deliveries in 2016 and 2017 above historical averages albeit below the strong 2015 levels.
During the fourth quarter TrinityRail delivered 8 835 railcars a favorable product mix extended production runs high levels of productivity and declining material costs contributed to a record 23.6% operating margin during the quarter for our Rail Group.
I'm very proud of our team's ability to maximize operational performance on a record level of railcar deliveries.
Our backlog of approximately 49 000 railcars valued at $5.4 billion at the end of 2015 provides good visibility for 2016 production planning.
Our current expectations for deliveries in 2016 is approximately 27 000 railcars of which approximately 90% are already in our backlog.
We project operating margins of approximately 15% for 2016 reflecting a significant shift in our planned 2016 product mix weak pricing for orders taken in Q4 2015 scheduled for production in 2016 and projected pricing for our unsold production backlog as well as cost and efficiencies associated with reducing our production footprint to align with current demand.
I am confident our operations team will execute in this environment with the same level of skill that produced record results.
Our projections assume no significant improvement in market conditions in 2016.
We're closely monitoring the industry's implementation of HM-251 tank car regulations.
Several factors including the continued low price of crude oil the reduced utilization of railcars transporting crude oil and the extended timeline for the mandated schedule for modifications have caused customers to postpone decisions pertaining to modifying railcars use inflammable commodity service.
As we have indicated previously our first priority is to ensure regulatory compliance within our lease railcar fleet.
Modifications to our lease fleet are currently in process.
I am pleased with the flexibility of our expanded maintenance service facilities which are making HM-251 modifications while also providing regulatory compliance services for our owned and managed lease fleets.
We continued to engage in dialogues with our customers a number of whom appeared to be finalizing the fleet modification plans.
The Leasing Group's performance during 2015 was also impressive reflecting solid railcar market fundamentals during the year.
High lease fleet utilization favorable lease rate pricing and new lease fleet additions contributed to annual revenue and profit from operations growth.
The leasing company ended the year with 97.7% utilization in the total of 76 765 railcars in our wholly-owned and partially-owned lease fleets.
Our total managed fleet including our wholly-owned partially-owned and investor-owned fleets now exceeds 94 800 railcars.
We expect our committed lease railcar backlog of $1.5 billion to generate further growth of our lease portfolio.
Lease expirations in 2016 reflect a broad diversification of our lease fleet as roughly 15% of our total portfolio remains up for renewal in 2016.
The weaker market environment is placing pressure on these rates and may adversely impact lease fleet utilization.
During the last several years we sold a significant number of lease railcars through the railcar investment vehicle platform.
These sales demonstrate the value we have created in our leasing business and have contributed significantly to Trinity's financial flexibility and earnings performance.
Railcar investment vehicles or RIVs are discrete investments in lease railcars developed and managed by TrinityRail for institutional investors who desire to invest capital on lease railcars.
Lease railcars are viewed by institutional investors as stable hard asset investments with an inflationary hedge component.
We continue to engage with institutional investors interested to invest in lease railcars.
Through scale of our leasing platform and our lease origination capabilities combined with our cradle-to-grave asset expertise attracts institutional investors to the RIV platform.
To meet the specific investment objectives of varied investors Trinity develops diversified lease railcar portfolios by selecting lease railcars from our wholly-owned lease portfolio or from railcars and our lease order backlog.
Further Trinity manages the asset on behalf of the investors providing administrative and maintenance services.
We have successfully developed the RIV platform over the last 10 years comprised of over $5 billion in lease railcars at original sale prices.
The RIV platform provides TrinityRail financial capacity to enhance our lease origination capabilities and lease portfolio funding diversification and provides Trinity with additional financial flexibility.
We expect to grow this platform by facilitating additional RIVs for institutional investors.
During 2016 we currently plan to expand the RIV platform by selling approximately $500 million of lease railcars to institutional investors.
We have inquiries from institutional investors to acquire railcars through the RIV platform that exceeds $500 million as such we will evaluate the possibility of additional lease railcar sales through the RIV platform during 2016 as we balance investment demand from institutional investors with the size of our wholly-owned lease fleet.
In summary the Rail Group and Leasing and Management Services Group delivered exceptional results during the fourth quarter and throughout 2015.
As we move into 2016 we are focused on controlling cost maximizing our production efficiency on reduced production levels and maintaining high fleet utilization.
We will continue to build out the RIV platform.
Our operating and financial flexibility continue to differentiate TrinityRail enhancing our position as a premier provider of railcar products and services.
I will now turn it over to James for his remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we announced our results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2015.
For the quarter the company reported earnings per share of $1.30 and revenues of $1.55 billion compared to EPS and revenues of $0.86 and $1.66 billion respectively for the same period last year.
During the fourth quarter our EPS reflected strong operating performance by our businesses and the continued expansion of the railcar investment vehicle platform which we refer to as the RIV platform.
For the full year we reported revenues of $6.39 billion and EPS of $5.08 both records for Trinity.
We ended the year with $871 million of cash on hand and have access to additional capital through our committed lines of credit at both the corporate and leasing levels.
At the end of the year our liquidity position was more than $2.1 billion.
During the fourth quarter we invested $51 million in capital expenditures across the number of our manufacturing businesses and at the corporate level.
For the full year this figure totaled $196 million.
During the fourth quarter we invested approximately $338 million in lease railcar additions to our wholly-owned lease fleet.
This number included new originations as well as some secondary market purchases.
This investment was offset by $395 million of lease railcar sales from our lease fleet.
I would like to add as a background on our RIV platform that Steve provided.
The RIV platform provides Trinity with a level of financial flexibility that is unique among diversified industrial companies.
The cash flow generated from this platform provides flexibility to reinvest in our railcar leasing and management services platform.
Our portfolio of diversified industrial businesses and in other opportunities that enhanced shareholder returns.
Expanding this platform is a core element of our strategy with the associated earnings and cash flows enhancing our financial flexibility.
In addition to financial flexibility we garner other benefits when we sell a lease railcar to the RIV platform.
When we do so we maintain the management of the railcar.
This generates recurring management fees for Trinity that are expected to grow as we continue to expand the platform.
This management role allows us to maintain closed relationships with the end users of the railcars giving us real time information on the markets we serve and our customer's ongoing needs.
As managers we also coordinate the maintenance of the railcars through our maintenance facilities and facilities owned by third parties.
The accounting treatment for sales of lease railcars can be complex and difficult for our investors to understand.
When railcars are manufactured by Trinity and sold to our leasing company they're transferred at market pricing levels.
The revenue and profit are recorded in the Rail Group.
When we consolidate Trinity's financial statements the revenue from the railcar sale is eliminated and the profit is deferred.
If a railcar is later sold from our lease fleet to an RIV or another third party the remaining deferred profit on our balance sheet for particular railcar is recognized as income at that time.
In addition we recognized the gain on the sale as compared to the book value of the railcar.
There is another accounting treatment that applies to the revenue recognition for railcar sold with leases.
This is determined by how long the railcar was in the lease fleet.
For railcars that have been in our lease fleet for one year or less revenues recognized in the leasing group.
For railcars in the lease fleet for more than one year no revenues recognized.
The profit on the sale of the lease railcar is fully recognized no matter what the length of time the railcar was in our fleet.
During the fourth quarter we sold $470 million of lease railcars to the RIV platform including $85 million sold directly from the Rail Group.
For the full year we sold approximately $1.1 billion of lease railcars to the RIV platform.
Over the last decade we've placed approximately $5 billion of lease railcars at the time of the sale to various RIVs.
In 2015 we sold almost $1.2 billion of lease railcars to RIVs and other third parties.
Of this total $260 million was sold directly from our manufacturing business.
This figure was included in the Rail Group's revenue.
Another $405 million worth of railcars were sold from the lease fleet and has only been in the fleet for one year or less so we're including in the Leasing Group's revenues.
The final $515 million of lease railcar sales where railcars that have been in the fleet for more than one year so no revenue was booked.
These proceeds were shown on our cash flow statement.
Now I will move to our guidance for 2016.
This year is expected to be more challenging in terms of the demand in the markets we serve.
Historically we achieve high levels of operating leverage as our volumes rise in the strong economic cycle.
The last few years are prime example of our ability to achieve record earnings during the solid industrial demand environment.
On the other hand we historically lose some of the operating leverage and efficiencies we gained during the up cycle as we begin the cycle down.
When this occurs we're focused on preserving as much of the momentum and benefits that we gain from the previously strong demand environment.
We have costs associated with the shifts in our product mix and rationalization of our footprint.
As a result our margins are impacted and it's difficult to precisely predict how much.
Our businesses have been highly focused on responding to the current economic conditions and have been taking the appropriate steps.
In our October conference call we mentioned that we're seeing a slowdown in the industrial markets we serve and thus hesitancy from our customers to place orders.
This trend has continued into early 2016.
When we experienced several months of persistent economic conditions we incorporate that trend into our guidance and provide our insight accordingly.
It's difficult for us to provide guidance in such a challenging environment.
At this time our guidance does not assume that economic conditions improve in 2016.
In our press release yesterday we provided EPS guidance of $2 to $2.40 in 2016.
This represents several factors.
Our current firm backlogs expectations for our operations against the weak industrial outlook and a lower level of lease railcar sales to the RIV platform.
We expect our Rail Group to deliver approximately 27 000 railcars in 2016.
This is a decrease of over 7 000 railcars from 2015.
We expect revenues in the Rail Group of approximately $3.1 billion this is a decrease of almost $1.4 billion year-over-year.
Our operating leverage will decline due to the lower level of production and certain costs associated with aligning our manufacturing footprint with demand resulting in an operating margin of approximately 15%.
In 2016 we expect to eliminate approximately $1.1 billion of revenues related to railcar sales for our leasing company and defer approximately $215 million of operating profit.
These revenue eliminations and profit deferrals result from the accounting treatment I just reviewed for sales for our manufacturing company to our leasing company.
In 2016 we expect our Leasing Group to record operating revenues excluding lease railcar sales of approximately $700 million with profit from operations of approximately $300 million.
In 2016 our forecast includes approximately $500 million of sales of lease railcars to RIVs with a profit of approximately $100 million.
As these sales are dynamic we've yet to identify which cars will be sold to the RIVs so we cannot provide guidance as to the group in which the transaction will be recorded for the accounting treatment related to the revenues and profits.
Our guidance at this time assumes the sales occurred from the lease fleet.
The demand for lease railcars among institutional investors remains high.
So we may have the opportunity for a higher level of lease railcar sales this year as we balanced the strong level of demand with our owned ownership of lease assets and market demand for new lease railcars.
We expect our Energy Equipment Group to have 2016 revenues of approximately $1 billion with an operating margin of approximately 12%.
We are pleased with the $371 million backlog we have in our wind towers business which essentially fills our production facilities dedicated to that product line during 2016.
We expect our Construction Products Group to report 2016 revenues of approximately $560 million with an operating margin of approximately 11%.
As Bill mentioned the country now has a federal highway build which provides some longer-term benefits to this group as projects began.
We continue to be pleased with the performance and opportunities within our Aggregates businesses.
Our Inland Barge Group is expected to generate revenues of approximately $445 million in 2016 with an operating margin of approximately 10%.
Low commodity prices and the strong U.S.
dollar have reduced demand for products transported in barges.
Combining these factors with lower steel prices we expect revenues and profits in this group to be lower than in the last few years.
We continue to monitor demand and line our production footprint accordingly in this group as we do in all of our businesses.
Our annual EPS guidance also includes the following assumptions.
A tax rate of approximately 36% corporate expenses of $130 million to $150 million which include ongoing litigation-related expenses.
The deduction of approximately $20 million of non-controlling earnings due to our partial ownership in TRIP and RIV 2013.
A reduction of approximately $0.07 per share due to the two-class method of accounting compared to calculating Trinity's EPS directly from the face of the income statement.
And no dilution from the convertible notes based on the current stock price.
As it pertains to cash flow we expect the annual net cash investment in railcars added to our lease fleet to be approximately $385 million in 2016.
Our guidance incorporates the guidance we discussed for 2016 from the sales of leased railcars from the Leasing Group.
Full year manufacturing and corporate capital expenditure for 2016 are expected to be between $150 million and $200 million.
Our share repurchases in 2015 totaled $115 million with no repurchases occurring during the fourth quarter.
In December the board authorized a $250 million share repurchase program through 2017 and we expect to be in the market repurchasing shares this year.
At this time we expect for our total cash flow to be positive in 2016.
In conclusion we entered this economic down cycle with the strong balance sheet and $2.1 billion of liquidity.
We continue to seek organic and acquisition investment opportunities that enhance shareholder value.
We are confident that Trinity will respond appropriately to the weak industrial markets this year as we continue to pursue our vision to be a premier industrial diversified company.
Our operator will now prepare us for the question-and-answer session.
Certainly.
And we can take our first question from Matt Elkott with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I want you guys to help me understand dig deeper into the guidance here.
I know you guided for a 20% decline in deliveries in 2016 which is I don't think anyone was expecting flat deliveries or up deliveries maybe slightly worse than expectation but it's in line with the industry.
But your margin assumption for the Rail Group is almost 600 basis points deterioration in the operating income.
And then the midpoint of the EPS is about 57% down from 2015.
So there seems to be discrepancy between the delivery decline and the earnings and margin decline.
Can you put more color into why margins are going to be so pressured? Sure Matt.
This is Steve.
I'll start with the answer.
Margin is ultimately a reflection of the product mix produced in the quarter and the productivity we're able to achieve through operational efficiencies.
We are experiencing a significant shift in our product mix with the expected railcar deliveries in 2016.
Our margin guidance includes the costs and efficiencies associated with the aligning a smaller production footprint with lower demand.
And we also are assuming weaker market prices on unsold railcar production slots.
While down from our most recent margin performance our current projections for 2016 margins compare quite favorably to prior peak margins in 2007 and 2008.
For example our 2007 annual margin was 14.6% at approximately the same level of production.
(37:24) President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The decline in shipments? And decline in shipments yes from the prior year.
All right.
So now that you guys have set the bar – reset the bar much lower for 2016 I know you – this is the first time you gave guidance but I think most people are expecting a bigger EPS number but the bar has been reset.
As you kind of look out to 2017 is 2016 looking now more like the year where pricing bottoms out because a lot of the weakness in the level of orders may be stemming from kind of wait and see attitude by customers because of all the uncertainty in the industrial markets.
So should we look for 2016 for – 2016 may being kind of the bottom for pricing which could spur some opportunistic buying from large investors? And what does that mean for deliveries in 2017? Does this mean that we're not going to see a decline or not as big of a decline in deliveries in 2017 off of this lower number? This is Steve again it's really difficult to start to talk about 2017.
Again we're looking at macroeconomic environment with significantly lower railcar loadings lower industrial output higher U.S.
dollar all impacting our business and typically when those – a large number of idle railcars are in storage you have to wait for those railcars to be absorbed in the system before we see any meaningful increase in demand for new railcars and maybe pricing traction associated with that market.
With that said as I mentioned in my comments there are several pockets of our markets that show good demand.
And we'll concentrate and focus on those but it's really difficult to talk about 2017 this early in 2016.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just one last question.
What are – do you have certain macro assumptions that are – that your guidance for 2016 is based on as far as oil prices maybe rail traffic? And when you were doing your forecast for 2016 did you have multiple scenarios and if so did you pick the kind of average scenario did you pick the more conservative scenario for your guidance? Matt Steve again.
I think we've said that our guidance as well as our plans assume no material improvement in the economic circumstances that we're under right now.
So we'll continue to monitor those economic drivers for our business and adjust our plans as those drivers might change over the course of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And we will take our next question from Allison Poliniak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Going back to that Rail Group margin I think mix and pricing and sort of that reduction of footprint were highlighted.
Anyway to rank those and obviously as everything mix it sounds like is most important maybe.
And sort of the cadence as we go through 2016 I mean are we substantially dropping in Q1 or do we sort of trend back or below that sort of year-end number? Yeah.
Good morning Allison.
This is Steve.
Clearly the significant shift in our product mix and the pricing associated with that product mix is having the biggest impact on our decline in margins.
I think we would expect that our cadence over the course of 2016 both our deliveries and margins will probably be better in the first half than it will in the second half.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just touching on the secondary market I know you guys talked about sort of you guys selling equipment but thoughts maybe from history opportunities maybe for you guys to buy some equipment at some of these newer players in the leasing market besides they really don't want to be here anymore.
I mean how does that sort of play out in your mind? Sure Allison.
Steve again we have been active in acquiring railcars in the secondary market as an important component of our RIV platform to show investors our interest in acquiring those cars along with cars that we produced new.
With the amount of institutional capital and active participants in the market it is highly competitive.
And we want to be disciplined in the railcars that we acquired to put into our RIV platform.
Sure.
And then I guess James this one is for you $2 billion of liquidity you touched a little bit on share repurchases but maybe talks on capital deployment here in this environment do you think the properties start becoming more attractive through year-to-year maybe you layout your priorities for 2016? Allison thanks.
This is James.
I appreciate you being on the call today.
In terms of priorities we certainly maintained a strong balance sheet strong liquidity and as Tim mentioned as we go through down cycles we've strengthened the company through strategic investments.
As I said we'll look at organic opportunities through building our businesses from within acquisition opportunities as we look at the pipeline evaluations of companies that would add to our diversified industrial portfolio enhance our shareholder value through that.
And then as we've talked about we've historically looked at share repurchases as a component of that as well.
So we're not able to provide any specific guidelines we have or outline what our plans out for the year but we really look at this as an all the above type strategy as opportunities for us as we look at different opportunities and valuations as we have those conversations with our board of directors.
Great.
Thanks guys.
And we can take our next question from Justin Long with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning.
So you mentioned about 15% of your lease fleet is renewing this year but could you talk about the assumption that you have baked into the guidance in terms of the change in renewal rates and utilization as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Steve? Yeah.
Justin this is Steve.
Well first of all our guidance does include our assumptions for renewal percentages as well as lease rates.
And no there's no question that there's downward pressure on lease rates given the number of available cars in certain markets.
And we would expect utilization could be adversely affected as well.
We've been very successful historically maintaining high fleet utilization in our business.
We are also be adding a number of fully utilized cars.
So I would expect that we'll have a reasonable year as far as utilization is concerned.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And in terms of renewal rate change is there any way you could speak to that in terms of the general magnitude I know it varies by car types so it's a tough question? It is Justin but our expirations are diversified amongst the number of different markets and car types.
So we don't have any specific industry concentrations that would concern me.
And I believe our sales and marketing team would be successful in remarketing our lease renewals.
Inc.</span></strong> And Steve you have a fairly elaborate business planning process that you go through in order to identify the cars that are coming up for renewals you make assumptions of what you think the renewals are going to be and those all get incorporated into the guidance that we provide.
Yeah we do Tim (sic) [Justin] (45:38) – we really do a bottoms-up analysis on our lease renewal.
We really look at each individual car and each individual rider and do our prognostications so we don't make general macro assumptions in our lease renewals that falls into our forecast we really do it very deep dive on a car-by-car lease-by-lease basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
Secondly one of the questions that have come up a lot in this environment is the potential for residual value risk for the railcar lessors especially when you look at the tank car fleet.
I'm just curious do you see this as a potential headwind? Or is your residual value assumption so low that it really won't be an issue? Steve again Justin interesting question.
I think it's so easy for us to be influenced by near-term economic conditions.
But we're talking about railcars that we expect to have 35-year life 40-year life and perhaps even 50-year life.
So we really look at these assets over a much longer-term and I think we're comfortable with the residual positions we've taken in our lease fleet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I'll leave it at that.
Thanks for the time today.
And we can take our next question from Gordon Johnson with Axiom Capital Management.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> So first I guess with respect to the Element deal in 2013 I thought that the guarantee was $2 billion in sales through the end of 2015.
That looks like roughly $133 million worth of lease railcars are sold in Q4 when we thought the number was going to be $400 million.
Are we thinking about that right? Is that just a push out? Can you guys help us understand that? Gordon this is James.
When we announced the alliance in late 2013 we said that through 2015 we were looking at about $2 billion.
I think it's strong to call that a commitment on either side.
From that perspective we were a little short to the $2 billion but we in the fourth quarter announced a new $1 billion agreement over the next several years.
So that's very fluid in our relationship with Element.
And looking at that is good dialogue.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess with respect to your shipment guidance 27 000 cars assuming the market share at 40% that's just roughly 17 000 cars for the industry.
If we look at 17 000 cars per quarter rather for the industry if you look at the last down cycle I guess shipments of cars averaged about 5 400 (48:19) cars that's in 2009.
So clearly maybe they don't get as bad as 2009 but shouldn't the guidance be slightly worse than you guys are projecting or are we thinking about that incorrectly? Gordon this is Steve.
I think the difference in your comparison is the backlog when we entered previous downturns.
We did not have the extended backlog that we currently have today.
And so I think the planning and the insights that we have in the 2016 are better than what we had at that time.
And Gordon this is James.
As Steve mentioned our 27 000 about 90% of that is already in our current backlog out of the total 49 000 in our backlog.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly just looking at the lease business the margin this quarter I think a little weaker than we expected.
Was that due to maintenance expense? And was that due to the retrofit of the tank cars? And if so how long does that take? And thanks again for the questions guys.
Good luck.
Gordon thanks.
This is Steve.
Maintenance expense in our lease fleet isn't necessarily smooth over quarters.
And then particularly in the fourth quarter we probably incurred some initial expenses and trying to make sure that annual regulatory compliance is completed.
So that may have an inordinate influence on maintenance expense in any one quarter.
And we can take our next question from Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
So on your call in October you said about 85% of the 27 000 cars that you're expecting to deliver this year.
They're already in the backlog.
And I would assume that there was still very attractive pricing on most of what you build in that 85%.
And on the call today you're pretty candid about the challenges with pricing that you already took in 4Q and the slots are still opened to be ordered for next year but only 15% of what you're going to deliver it would seem that the pricing and the margins on those orders must have fallen really dramatically to get you to the outlook that you provided on margins here.
So it's a longwinded way to kind of get into – to how competitive is pricing now? Are we looking at breakeven like levels on some of the orders that are being placed today? Or is that just getting too dire? Yeah Bascome it's Steve.
First of all I think I said 80% of our 2016 production was in our backlog during our last conference call.
That is now 90%.
I would tell you that pricing is extremely competitive in the marketplace.
Some of our competitors have much less backlog than we have working very hard and the pricing to fuel their production capacity during the year.
So the orders we took in the fourth quarter had – I would say lesser margins than what we have in our backlog.
And again we have forecast that our unsold production plants will also be a weak margin.
I mean is the delta so big that we can be talking single-digit margins on some of the stuff that's being ordered today? I don't know that I can be that specific but also keep in mind I'm highlighting a very significant shift in our product mix for 2016 a very significant shift.
Okay.
Understood thanks for the color there.
Another margin question here how much of the decline we're looking at in your rail margins for 2016? Are part of the cost of aligning the production with lower demand? So this question specifically trying to dig out what kind of restructuring type costs could be in there or other cost related to workforce adjustments that may not repeat once capacity gets level with demand? Sure Bascome Steve again.
The significant reduction in our margins from 2015 and 2016 is related to pricing and product mix.
Certainly we have costs associated with rightsizing our production foot print to meet a lower level of demand.
And again our teams are very adapt in how we handle labor issues and utilizing our facilities efficiently.
Okay.
And following-up on our earlier question on the cadence of the margins I mean you closed out 4Q 2015 with around 23% in the Rail Group maybe get a 15% for full year 2016 in sequentially declining market which you implied to the other question.
And it feels like you'd have to start the year close to 20% and end it closer to 10% or even below.
And that's such a wide delta in margins in such a short amount of time.
Are we thinking about that right is that spread too wide or would you expect to kind of a tighter range around 15% that you're guiding throughout the year on a quarter-to-quarter basis? Bascome this is James.
Yeah.
We're not at this time giving detailed pricing.
Steve talked about the cadence of deliveries stepping down.
So we wouldn't comment on the specific quarterly margins that they were projecting at this time.
Okay.
One more on margin and then I'll run.
Looking at the implied margin and what you're eliminating.
I know there is always a bit of a differential between that and what you're reporting for the entire Rail Group but the spread I think was about four points or five points higher margin in your eliminations than what you're guiding for the Rail segment as a whole.
What's driving that? Yeah Bascome.
This is James.
It can be a number of things primarily it's product mix.
The cars that are in our lease backlog versus the manufacturing backlog the external direct customers without leases.
There are certain costs that don't come through with the transferred to the leasing company with that market pricing but primarily is the mix on pricing of the specific cars that are currently identified to go to our leasing company.
Understood.
Thanks for the time this morning guys.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the time this morning.
Hi Steve you had a lot of questions thrown at you about pricing and margin but if I could just ask one last one regarding that obviously pricing and margin contend to be cyclical in this business.
But would you say the environment is rational or irrational at this point in time with regards to what competitors are doing? I think rationale is in the eye of the beholder.
Isn't it? Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
No absolutely but I feel that you guys have always been very rational in how you view things so your comment should be well taken actually? Sure well I mean clearly we've got a period of weaker demand.
I think the rationality scale probably changes based upon the type of backlog you have as the manufacturer.
So hopefully we will continue to be disciplined and rational in our approach to the marketplace given our backlogs.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
A quick question on the RIV platform.
I mean when you talk to institutional investors about the opportunities here what are they looking for how do they view the platform are they indifferent to assets are they just very focused on the type of yield that they can accrue over time? How do – and I ask that so that I can think about what their decision making process is in allocating capital with this type of investments.
Yeah thanks really good question I appreciate you're focusing on the RIV platform.
I think institutional investors first and foremost do have their yield requirements they're looking at this asset class and how it fits in their overall stack of different types of investments.
They really like the long-term nature of these assets and I mentioned the inflationary hedge component of the nature of these assets as well.
I think the other critical components they're looking at is diversification.
They want to make sure they have a diversified portfolio and so Trinity with our broad product line is able to provide that type of asset diversification in a lease railcar portfolio.
I think the other thing they're looking at is the quality of the servicer the quality of the manager someone who has as I mentioned greater degree of capabilities which from engineering through servicing the railcars and all points in between.
I think we've established that TrinityRails are a premier provider of those services.
And I guess to add they want to have confidence in our ability to be able to market and remarket the railcars over the long-term life of these assets.
And we've clearly demonstrated a strong capability in our field sales organization to maintain high-fleet utilization for these type of assets.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
When you – when I – when we think and I know it's a small portion of kind of – or a small number in the grand scheme of things.
But does management fee vary by potential investor based on what they ask you to do or if they can take on any of the stuff themselves? Good question.
We're pretty disciplined in the services that we're offering.
I think our institutional investors see the value we provide in the broad array of services that we provide.
And I think the fees that we charge are – reflect the value that we provide and the service we provide.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Last question and it's kind of a big picture question and that – and I'm asking everybody I can.
And I really appreciate your thoughts on this.
I respect your knowledge of the industry and kind of how you see these cycles and being an observer from the outside sometimes it's tough to see what's really going on but as I sit back and look at the turn in direction here and where this down cycle may settle out.
I go back and think about the – having been an observer of three or four of these cycles.
One of the things that strikes me as we kind of enter this period we're probably seeing an end of a global commodity super cycle and that's having going to have an effect on rail volumes.
Additionally we have this issue here in the U.S.
of secular decline in coal.
And over the long haul that may drive better asset productivity better utilization of assets within the rail network.
Just – I'd like to get your thoughts on how to think about this as we move forward and how these changing dynamics could change the demand within your industry and what may or may not need to occur within the industry to make things a little bit more matched I guess as we go over time from a supply demand standpoint and maybe get some players who maybe have shown a propensity to be a rational to get that rationality factor up.
And as you do so I would just ask that given the fact that I mentioned I've seen three of four of these cycles if you can comment without commenting on my age? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Tim you've asked real loaded question there.
And our portfolio is diversified enough that our business leaders see a wide variety of market and we get together once a month with the business leaders in our company and we have lunch and then we go around the room and everybody talks about their margins and what they're seeing and what they're hearing and this could be the barge markets the electric utility markets the railcar markets and the rail's has got a real broad spectrum of it.
And one thing that we've really focusing on is the demand and the inquiry levels from our customers and then the build rate of what our customers are looking on their horizon of where they're going to be putting their capital.
So we have a very robust dynamic dashboard of inputs that we've received and we try to receive it more or so from the customers' mouth and deal with their demand and where they're going in their various businesses.
And so it's not really – we take in consideration the macro global economic situations but since the customers we deal with most of them a lot of them have global footprints.
We're able to get it distilled down through their people of to what their needs are for our products.
So basically that's what gets incorporated into the guidance that we give to reflect like the statement that we made that this year we're assuming the markets going to stay at the same pace that it has been for the last six months for the next 12 months.
Once we start seeing and hearing from our customers that demand is on the horizon and you always have customers that want to do some bottom fishing and come in and make strategic purchases during down cycles and we negotiate really well with them and we align ourselves well with them.
And they usually will come to us first and say hey we're thinking about acquiring some of these products what kind of deal would you cut with us and we'll get into a negotiation with them.
That usually happens during the bottom type part of the cycle and then you end up having kind of the herd effect that other people will jump on at a later point.
So for us it's not so much a large global macroeconomic analysis it's a touch and feel and listen and hear what the customers have to say.
Steve do you want to add anything? Well yes more specific to rail I agree everything Tim said there.
It's not only the commodity super cycle we enjoyed but right now we're also suffering from the value of the U.S.
dollar and those things aren't going to stay in the position they are forever.
When we had the boom in ethanol demand I'm not sure anybody really saw that coming in 2004 and 2005.
And I don't think anybody forecasted the shale boom when we were in the doldrums in 2009 and 2010.
So what's the next big driver's going to be for demand for railcars may not be visible to us today but as Tim said we stay very very close to our customers.
We're adept at managing through these type of cycles.
And I'm confident that over the long-term we'll be very successful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bill do you have anything to add? I would echo Steve's comments and say that certainly many of the products that we sell to our customers are large durable goods that can be deferred for a period of time but that builds up demand ultimately.
And I think you're seeing just some general uncertainty in the market where companies are reducing their CapEx budgets for a period of time.
And I think ultimately that doesn't mean they don't need the product but just means they don't need the product necessarily today.
And they don't want to take that liquidity off their balance sheet at this point in time.
No.
That's a really good point Bill and something we haven't talked about today is we still have an aging North American rail fleet that will require replacement over time.
And so we'll always be well positioned to work with our customers in that regard still looking after that for new drivers of growth but you do have an aging replacement opportunity that I think that is good for our business too.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
And we are well suited to serve our customers' needs for replacement as well as be partners with them when they're going to expand and be able to move with them.
And our manufacturing flexibility is designed to take advantage of opportunities when growth is there as well as while like Bill was saying his wind power production right now is at capacity based on his current allocation.
But if he gets some demand that has been spurred from the new legislation that was passed and the production tax credit then we can easily convert some of our facilities to move in that direction.
James do you have anything to offer? No I think Art your question is a very big picture one and the good thing is we see the big picture in talking to the customers.
We certainly watch the macroeconomic factors but we have a much finer lens in having those day-to-day conversations.
Inc.</span></strong> I think all your comments and how you approach it was very very helpful and I appreciate the transparency and candor in a difficult environment that you offered us today.
Thanks.
Thank you Art.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks good morning.
I'll try to be quick here.
Are you providing any color in terms of your expectations for Element sales in 2016? Matt this is James.
We're not breaking down the sales of RIVs other than $500 million in total we're not providing allocations or where those railcars may go.
Okay.
Is it fair to assume though that the billion dollars the extension we should be thinking about that being spread out kind of ratably over the next four years or is there a potential for some of that to get pushed out just given we're in a much more challenging environment currently.
Yeah.
Again Matt this is James.
Hard to – as I said we've not specifically identify the cars or the humps (66:29) for those cars there are strong institutional investor demand Elements among those of course.
The $1 billion over four years gives us both flexibility and we'll see as we – as the year progresses what our desires are and their desires are to match up cars that go to them and cars that go to other third parties including the new fund that we've talked about in our press release earlier today.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my last question here I'm trying to get a sense for how much of the margin headwind this year within railcar is a function of the cycle i.e.
building less tank cars and less sand cars and building more free cars and kind of the ASP and the mix there to how that changes and it's a natural margin headwind.
And then how much of the margin headwind is potentially a function of shifting some of the backlog for these energy cars out further and maybe pulling forward some freight cars in the meanwhile just given current environment we're looking at currently? Matt I think I've said.
This is Steve – a couple of times today that really the significant shift in our production mix and the margins associated with that production mix really is the big headwind in our margin decline.
And I think that's much detail we'll get into on that but that's – when I say a significant shift in mix I mean it's a very significant shift.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Kristine Kubacki with Avondale Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you for squeezing me in.
I just wanted to piggyback on Art's question a little bit about RIV.
I guess I am surprised that the secondary market is hanging in there so strong and you talked about that you had inquiries over the $500 million and I was just wondering what would keep you or prevent you from selling more cars at this point is it a function of what the cars are actually in demand? Well thank you Kristine.
This is Steve Menzies.
We will evaluate opportunities to sell more railcars through our RIV platform beyond the $500 million we've talked about.
Institutional investors in my opinion the conversations that we had with them are shunning financial instrument investments and really looking for hard assets like lease railcars.
They like the asset class they like the risk profile and we're working with the number of institutions to continue to express an interest in aligning with our RIV platform.
Now I think Steve said it well I think as Steve said part of it is the level of interest out there remains strong.
We continue to balance our own portfolio needs with those of the third party investors.
So we and our investors have diversified portfolios and as we look at the order volumes our backlog and what's in our existing wholly-owned fleet we're able to select cars so be sure both of those portfolios and all of those with the investors who are well diversified.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Tim.
We're in a strong position because we've got a large reservoir when you take our backlog and our existing wholly-owned fleet to be able to select and choose from.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my question – I know you'll hate this on the margin I guess but I'm going to come out a little different way.
Can you talk – can you just answer the question about the mix shift was so dramatic this year and then going back a quarter ago it seems like we had a lot more visibility.
And I guess I'm wondering is why the shift so dramatic is it because car buyers have come back in and changed what car types? And can they renegotiate the price on that? Or are those energy cars or the tank cars that are getting pushed out are they going to be eventually build as a tank car or so how should we think about the backlog is it more fluid than we all expected I guess.
And this is James.
Kristine I don't think it's fluidity as much.
Steve talked about it in our last couple of conference calls that a lot of our crude oil tank cars specifically would pretty much to be out of the backlog by the end of 2015 that's the case.
So that's one of the significant shift that he talks about as you're moving more from tank to freight and you're moving from those high value crude oil cars and certainly the pricing environment in the last two quarters.
Your average sales price comes down and then on top of that the compounding effect of operational leverage coming down with a lower volumes as to the lower overall margins.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you for squeezing me in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Mike Baudendistel with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
The eliminations you expect in 2016 related to leasing segment were a little bit higher than I was anticipating.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how much equipment you expect to put in your leasing fleet in 2016.
And I know it's a little bit up in the year with RIV situations or maybe if you could talk about how much of the 90% of the cars – 90% of the deliveries you have booked for 2016 are going to go into the lease fleet? Sure.
Mike this is James.
Thank you.
Yeah the guidance we gave was $1.1 billion of eliminations.
So that would be the value of the cars going into the lease fleet.
We had about a little more than that in the backlog for leasing at the end of the year.
So the vast majority of that's in the backlog.
We've talked about selling about $500 million from the lease fleet to RIV is how we have that guided right now.
So that would add a net of $600 million of market value of railcars during the year.
So we would expect at this time for the fleet to grow based on that guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for sticking around guys.
Just one quick one from me.
You've been clear you're projecting recent weaker demand trends through the rest of the year.
I'm curious if you've booked any railcars or barges in the first six weeks of the year? Is there really any activity out there? This is Steve.
Steve thanks for your questions.
Yes.
We have booked orders through the first six weeks of this year.
Yes Steve this is Bill.
On the barge side we have booked orders although I would say very few at this point in time.
Inc.</span></strong> Super.
And just one follow-up for the orders that you are booking are they for delivery in 2016? This is Steve again.
Yes.
And this is Bill.
Yes as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the program back over to Gail Peck for any closing remarks.
Thank you Aaron.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay of this call will be available after 1 o'clock Eastern Standard Time today through midnight on February 26 2016.
The access number is 402-220-2686.
Also the replay will be available on the website located at www.trin.net.
We look forward to visiting with you again on our next conference call.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.