Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Review for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Great thank you Shante.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our first quarter 2011 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investor section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available on the Investors section on our website.
Thank you and now to Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you've seen our numbers and we're very pleased with our results.
At 14.1% our operating return on equity for the quarter reflected solid underwriting and investment income as well as the continuation of our strategy of returning excess capital to shareholders.
Our average annual operating return on equity since January 2005 coincidentally is also 14.1% within our overtime return objectives and meaningfully in excess of our average cost of equity over the period.
The total return to our shareholders over this period is also very strong at 86%.
In Business Insurance we're also pleased to see the continued success of the pricing strategy we have discussed with you previously as well as a continuation of improving exposure trends.
While Brian will take you through the details in both Business and Personal Insurance we were able to achieve gains in pricing evidencing our view that pricing is an active pursuit rather than a passive response.
In our Business Insurance segment almost every production indicator improved this quarter.
Retention was up we achieved pricing gains and exposure which is unit demand by renewing customers improved.
In addition we continue to increase our number of accounts during the quarter.
We fundamentally believe that a number of these indicators are the result of active management and not the result of a rising tide lifting all boats.
Our pricing strategy is premised on real value added to agents and customers and our industry-leading analytics which we apply to pricing and risk selection.
Most importantly we have applied this strategy thoughtfully and with the mindset not to be disruptive to either our agents or customers.
These analytics give us very important advanced insight into class and account profitability not only at the management level but critically at the desk underwriting level allowing us to better determine account rate needs risk selection and produce superior portfolio returns over time.
The feedback we received is that both agents and customers recognize the value proposition doing business with Travelers.
It's not the insurance agreement which anyone can write but the combination of the agreement with market-leading product breadth superior claims execution risk control skill and our extraordinary people with underwriting authority positioned in the local market.
Simply said we believe doing business with us creates value for agents and customers.
As we've been saying for some years now for a number of reasons we believe that the amplitude that is the highs and lows of the so-called pricing cycle in our industry may very well have moderated significantly.
Given our position as well as the analytic skill we just discussed we are not waiting for some change in the mythical cycle to seek improved returns.
We are increasingly optimistic about our ability to succeed in this regard given the signs we see of a more receptive environment particularly because we intend to execute this strategy in a targeted and measured way.
It is worth a look at Slide 9 where you can see the actual results of this approach.
Brian will have more to say about this later and we will discuss our view on cycles more at our upcoming Investor Day.
In short we're pleased with the quarter and we feel good about our competitive position.
We've now seen two quarters of improving rate in Business Insurance and five consecutive quarters of positive rate while growing policies in Personal Insurance.
We like what we see.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
As the data we provided shows we've produced first quarter operating income of $826 million up 31% from the prior year quarter and up 55% per diluted share translating into a strong operating ROE of 14.1%.
The major drivers of these increases in operating income and operating income per diluted share were a significant reduction in catastrophe losses as compared to the prior year quarter.
Cat losses were $122 million after-tax down from $312 million after-tax in the prior year quarter.
That said we would still characterize the current quarter as having combined weather and quake-related losses whether considered cats or smaller events that were higher than what we would consider to be typical.
And we also had tax benefits of $104 million in the current quarter that mostly related to the closing out of recent tax years and the very meaningful effect of our common share repurchase program on per share results.
Net investment income also increased due to solid performance in our non-fixed income investment portfolio.
Partially offsetting these benefits was a $37 million after-tax reduction in net favorable prior-year reserve development.
Net favorable prior-year reserve development which we once again experienced in each of our business segments was $155 million after-tax in the current quarter as compared to $192 million after-tax in the prior-year quarter.
So all in all particularly in light of the higher than typical cat and non-cat weather and quake-related losses that I previously referred to we are off to a good start for the year.
Book value per share of $59.91 increased 2% in the current quarter after repurchasing $1.1 billion of common stock and paying $155 million in dividends and increased 12% from a year ago after repurchasing $4.7 billion of common stock and paying $657 million in dividends.
Our cash flow remains very strong.
Operating cash flow was $633 million in the current quarter up from $531 million in the prior-year quarter and we could not be happier with our balance sheet.
And finally our continued strong results and financial position allowed the company to increase its quarterly dividend per share by 14% from $0.36 to $0.41.
We ended the quarter with holding company liquidity of $2.9 billion that was once again well in excess of our target but down from the $3.6 billion we held at the end of 2010.
This reduction in holding company liquidity was in line with our plan and relates back to our $1.1 billion common share repurchases in the quarter.
Entering the year our original estimate for full year 2011 common share repurchases was based upon our estimate of after-tax operating income plus $1.5 billion which translated into a particular dollar amount at that time.
Currently we have chosen not to change that dollar amount for full year 2011 share repurchases notwithstanding the first quarter's favorable reserve development which our estimates never incorporate due to it still being very early in the year and the inherent uncertainties in our business.
Brian is now going to provide some further insight into our underwriting results.
Thanks Jay.
We had a great quarter and we're pleased to be starting out the year in such a positive way.
In addition to posting strong earnings we are particularly pleased with what we are seeing in the underlying business dynamics.
Business Insurance delivered strong results this quarter.
Let me begin with operating earnings which increased over last year driven by lower cats and the tax benefit that Jay mentioned.
While cats are lower than last year it was still a very active weather quarter and cat losses were higher than what we considered typical.
In addition prior year development was somewhat less than in 2010 but still significant at $93 million after-tax.
Core underwriting margins remained solid but contracted modestly as loss cost continued to slightly outpace earned rate changes in line with our expectations.
Net written premiums grew almost 7 points year-over-year.
The increase was driven by improved pricing renewing customers purchasing more insurance as the economy improved and account growth.
Higher business receipts and/or payrolls for these customers drove increased exposure in [ph] units in our renewal premium.
Additionally audit premiums were positive for the first time since the second quarter of 2009.
Our price change or pure rate was positive quarter-over-quarter and even trended up month-to-month within the quarter.
At the same time retention rose 2 points to 84%.
New business flow remained strong while new business written premiums were down slightly from last year.
Page 8 demonstrates the significant improvement in renewal premium change that we've experienced since 2009.
Some of this is clearly driven by the broader economic environment but it is also a result of how we execute in the marketplace.
Much of the market commentary implies that there's only one marketplace and that all accounts renew at the same or similar rates.
At least for us that's not the case.
So we're not waiting for a market cycle change.
Instead we believe in a much more active strategy a strategy based on superior analytics a broad breadth of products excellent positioning in the distribution channel and great local point of sale talent.
The data on Slide 9 shows the distribution of price changes on our Commercial Accounts business in the first quarter.
This is a midsized account business with over 5 100 accounts renewing in the quarter.
In the aggregate 2/3 of these accounts got some level of increase.
But importantly there's a wide distribution of price changes with some accounts getting greater than 10% increases and others 10% decreases.
So we believe this clearly demonstrates that it's not one pricing environment and that given our competitive advantages we can target the accounts that need price and take the right actions deal by deal.
Through this thoughtful and targeted execution we can get rate where needed and minimize disruption to our agents and customers.
We believe this dynamic is one that is not well recognized or appreciated by industry observers and we believe it is meaningful.
Turning to Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment.
Operating income was up over the prior year quarter primarily due to lower catastrophe losses.
While written and earned premiums have been reduced in the current and recent quarters the work we have done to improve risk and reward in the catastrophe-prone lines in our Lloyd's syndicate successfully mitigated losses this quarter.
Net written premiums were down in the quarter primarily due to the Lloyd’s initiative I just mentioned the timing of renewal of some accounts written in the first quarter of last year that will become available for renewal later this year and the termination late last year of an exclusive distribution relationship in Ireland that we mentioned previously.
Looking at Bond &amp; Financial products.
In Surety we continue to see a market challenge for growth due largely to the continued sluggishness in construction spending.
In addition we're beginning to see evidence of more aggressive competition including relaxed terms and conditions in order to win business.
We will continue to maintain our underwriting discipline and look to grow where it makes sense.
In Management Liability while growth remains a challenge this is an area where we've invested in new product and technology and we believe we are well positioned to grow as the market improves.
Finally I wanted to give you an update on our joint venture in Brazil that we announced in November.
We continue to expect the transaction to close in the second quarter and remain excited about the opportunity this arrangement gives us to leverage our leading U.S.
Surety franchise to enter the growing Brazilian market and to expand more broadly into PNC and to do so with the benefit of a local market leader.
Moving to Personal Insurance we are pleased with our overall underwriting results and we had another quarter of solid production with continued growth in both policies enforced and net written premium.
From a financial perspective reported cats and prior year development for the segment were favorable year-over-year.
However underwriting results were impacted by a significant amount of non-cat weather that affected the industry in the quarter.
We remained pleased with the underlying profitability of the segment.
As with our Commercial Lines businesses we manage Personal Insurance consistent with our financial strategy of delivering mid-teen return on equity over time.
As such we are committed to maintaining target profitability as we look to achieve our desired growth within these confines.
To that end we have been making some targeted but aggressive rate actions particularly in the homeowner space which has been adversely impacted by weather trends in the last few years.
We believe that our rate actions are well justified given these loss trends.
In summary we feel terrific about the results this quarter.
While we are still operating in a fluid and challenging market environment we are clearly beginning to see some improvement and are cautiously but increasingly optimistic that this trend will continue.
Both execution across all our business segments and how we are positioning going forward are very strong.
With that let me turn it back to Jay Fishman for a closing comment.
Thanks Brian.
Just as I've said any number of times before a lot of our own folks listening to this call if not today then they will over the next few days.
It was a really busy first quarter for all our folks in claim and obviously given the activity in April it continues to be a busy time and they are all out there hopping.
I just want to let them know that we know that and what they are going to do today and what they do every day really makes a difference for us.
And with that let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Keith Walsh with Citi.
First question just on Business Insurance the pricing that we’re seeing here.
I guess I was definitely surprised about pricing being up and your retention being up at the same time.
Now could you just give us a little more color behind that? Was there some potentially pent-up pricing maybe from the recession or are you using -- is this expected frequency ticking up from a recovery that you're factoring into your pricing? Just maybe a little bit more color around that.
Let's tag team this a little.
It certainly Kevin (sic) [Keith] isn't driven by a concern about frequency or anything of that nature.
I'd say if there's anything in the back of at least my mind it's that it's possible that this investment return environment may turn out to be longer rather than shorter.
And as I've said on previous calls when rates change pretty dramatically pretty quickly we certainly didn't knee-jerk – have a knee-jerk reaction with respect to our pricing.
That would obviously be disruptive to both agents and customers.
And now that we're 18 24 months into it I think it's prudent that we be thoughtful of the possibility mindful of the possibility that this could be longer rather than shorter.
And so it is targeted it's moderate it's thoughtful.
And I think that that slide on Page 9 really speaks articulately to the issue 2/3 of the accounts we were successful in getting rate increases.
And yet with retention that stayed at historical levels historically high levels.
So I think it speaks to the value of the franchise.
I think it speaks to the way in which the company is regarded by agents and customers.
And I think you always have to remember -- there's a tendency of lots of folks to lump all of us together as one industry.
We are a small and middle-market company.
And if you get a point and a half of rate on $100 000 premium account that's $1 500.
And so if we do this thoughtfully and I think in a measured way we are optimistic that we can be successful.
And is there anything Brian that you would...
No I think it's -- that's the message.
Okay.
And then the second question would be if you could speak to the RMS [Risk Management Solutions] model changes on inland wind that we're seeing out there.
First of all do you use RMS? And then secondly if you could just talk to the changes in your PML in Florida Texas and the mid-Atlantic from the model changes that we've seen? Yes.
So this is Brian.
We absolutely use RMS.
But we don't use it exclusively.
We use every available model that you can think of that we’re out there working with.
So we work with a number of folks.
I'm not going to be able to give you an answer as specific as what you asked for.
It's a significant change to their model.
It's a complicated process and we've been heavily involved working with them for quite a while now.
Some of the things that they're contemplating in the model like inland exposures from the storm we'd already been looking at pretty significantly.
But there are a number of things that they are changing.
And like I said we're working with them.
So it'll be later in the year before we're going to come out with anything definitive on -- as in well into the third quarter probably before we come out with anything on what the model changes will actually mean.
So would we expect changes in your -- the way you think about capital heading into next year then? January of next year or late in the year is what you're referring to? What we've got to look at obviously is as we sort through all the changes in the model we've got to look at what that does to our expectation of losses.
As I said it's not the only model we use.
So we're going to take that output.
We're going to look at the other models.
We're to look at all of our internal data and we're going to assess where that is.
As it moves we can figure the conjecture on a bunch of different possibilities of what that could mean.
As it relates specifically to capital we will be evaluating what we think the model has done to our exposure base.
So our exposure base doesn't change the models.
Measurement of it changes perhaps.
But ultimately we'll be in discussions as I'm sure all of our counterparts will be with rating agencies and see what rating agencies think of the new models.
And we start in all of our capital planning with -- as we've said many many times before having operating company capital levels at the AA levels.
So we'll just continue to do that process.
Our next question is from the line of Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Could you give a little bit more color on the action at Lloyds and kind of what you're expecting from that business for the rest of the year? And I just have one follow-up.
Sure Mike it's Alan Schnitzer.
When you look at our experience over the recent years we've just had more really severity and volatility out of that business than we'd really like.
And so we've taken a step back just to reassess risk and reward and obviously we're starting on the risk side and taking some exposures down as we think about that and making sure that we're taking all the analytics and thought processes that we have in the U.S.
and driving it into those businesses as well.
So we started this analysis in 2009.
We worked through that and slowly we've been increasing the implementation.
And we'll be working through it for a couple of more quarters and starting to look more at the opportunity side as we start to put some of the analytics and thought process in place.
And when you look at the decrease in written premium anyway in the international if that's what you're looking at you're only about -- a third of that relates to what we're doing on the Lloyd's book.
There's another -- about a third that relates to some timing some accounts that were 18 months when written and will be available for renewal later in the year.
There's a little bit of reinsurance reinstatement premium and we've got the termination of the distribution arrangement in Ireland which will continue for the rest of this year to run through the top line although that piece won't have a significant impact on profitability.
Let me just jump in.
I think Alan just because he's leading this effort tends to kind of understate it a little bit.
We've talked for years about the nature of analytical skill and our ability to evaluate risk and reward.
In the U.S.
and all of our operations here that skill base was not nearly at the same level in our International business broadly.
But I think it was particularly true in Lloyd's although maybe not maybe it was more balanced than that.
And the effort that Alan has been doing is to bring the same level of analytics as well as the same level of interpretation of those analytics to the business that we do in our international operations.
And so ultimately it'll turn out at least initially to be somewhat smaller.
I think it will give us an awfully good platform to move ahead and to build the business with the sense of confidence the same sense of confidence that we have here in the U.S.
So it's very much a voluntary effort designed to bring that risk and reward profile in line with what we do here in the U.S.
Great.
And then I have one question in commercial accounts.
I noticed in your -- the Q you talked about margins being slightly narrower for the rest of the year in Business Insurance I believe and referencing kind of Brian's point of loss trend outpacing pricing.
And then obviously in the first quarter you saw a big increase in commercial accounts.
I'm just trying to reconcile those trends and make sure I understand on the thought process behind the outlook and then the increase in exposures in the quarter.
I think again Brian and I will tag team this.
First always keep in mind that our P&amp;L our GAAP financial statements are based upon earned premium.
And as a consequence they reflect more of the rate dynamics of the past 12 months than they do the past quarter.
You book it -- if it’s a 12-month policy you book it for 12 months and you amortize it in.
And so the rate picture that we're providing this morning is in the written premium arena which obviously will affect earned premiums down the road.
And what really you're seeing here at least in the GAAP statement is that -- and what we anticipated which is that the earned price the earned rate that's reflected in earned premium we expected that to be less than what we were contemplating for embedded loss trend for loss reserving purposes.
So as a consequence we were anticipating a modest margin contraction in Business Insurance.
And we are seeing very much that and it was actually reasonably predictable at the time.
So that's the earned piece with respect to written and there was a...
Just to restate some of the metrics and without being overly precise but we've been pretty transparent.
In the first quarter -- our last quarter our view on what we were seeing across our Business Insurance market from a loss side was relatively flat frequency and lower single digits inflation on the severity side and that has not changed.
You can see where our premium change numbers were and you can kind of make whatever estimate you want on where you think premiums changes are going to go for the rest of the year and see when you think those lines might be crossing on a written basis.
But we still got a little bit of contraction going.
So I don't know of those pieces add up for you.
Got it.
And then just – workers’ comp it looked like was a big driver.
It looks like just from the math that most of that -- the change in commercial accounts was workers comp.
I guess first question is that right? And if you could just talk specifically about the decision to pursue more business there and kind of what that means? Yes.
This is Brian again.
On the comp side that is the line across Business Insurance that's growing the most.
It's also the line across Business Insurance where we're getting the most price improvement.
And I'd say in every line within Business Insurance this quarter we got from price improvement.
But comp was definitely at the front end.
Comp’s a line that's gotten a lot of lot of publicity.
If you look at our results over the last 10-plus years now we've run a pretty significant favorable delta to the industry on a loss and combined ratio side.
So we feel great about our selection in there.
We feel great about our risk control capabilities and the claim capability that we have.
And so it is a line that we feel good about but very very select though.
Spend 30 seconds on the National Account business and the ability to export that skill.
Yes I mean we've got a very large account comp business which is primarily loss responsive as in taking credit risk not underwriting risk.
And that has enabled us over the last 20 years really the scale of that has enabled us to build claim and risk control capabilities and pricing selection tools which we would not have been able to afford to build had we just had the guaranteed cost book that we've had over the years.
So we think we've got a real scale and data advantage here and a technology and tools advantage that make a big difference in the marketplace.
So we feel good about our comp book.
An example of that is out in the claim organization.
You'll actually see nurses sitting side-by-side with claim handlers managing claim.
I don't know what do we have close to $2.5 billion $3 billion of claims under management in our National Account business? That provides two things.
Brian got it exactly right: an expertise that we can export into the smaller guaranteed cost segments and also a scale because comp is fundamentally a state-by-state business.
There are -- and you've really going to get very focused and very narrow in your analysis of it.
So the combination of the scale the expertise that exists predominantly in that National Accounts business is a real competitive advantage.
Our next question is from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Two questions for you.
First kind of following up on the last question can you talk about the potential for loss frequency to start to increase a bit as the economy recovers? I know that's kind of a broad issue but focus more on commercial I guess as well as personal.
And then second issue do you anticipate Travelers’ reinsurance costs could rise and if that were to happen would Travelers buy less coverage? On the loss frequency side Jay -- yes clearly as we talked about on the other side of the coin as the economy contracted it actually creates a favorable dynamic within the comp world in that most businesses lay off the least experienced workers first and safety gets a little bit better and you're running fewer shifts and all that kind of stuff.
If the economy really started to heat up we would see some of that.
We looked very closely we haven't seen anything yet and although the movement has been positive it hasn't been that dramatic that we think it has changed those dimensions.
Similarly as you said within all the lines including personal lines we're looking for any indications that economic growth is going to push frequency up which it naturally will.
I think the bottom line is the same across all our businesses.
We're looking really hard we haven't seen anything yet and we think it's the magnitude of the pickup in economic activity hasn't been enough to drive that yet.
But it's a great question and one that we'll be watching closely.
The reinsurance? Bill just handed me a note.
I think a better estimate of the claim -- I said $2.5 billion to $3 billion of claims under management.
$2 billion to $2.5 billion is a better estimate for claims under management in national accounts.
A combination of loss response and that which we have well due to [ph] service and guaranteed costs -- not guaranteed costs loss responsive [ph].
We don't actually buy all that much catastrophe coverage broadly speaking.
We have $1 billion retention.
In the next $1.25 billion our recovery and this is round numbers is about $500 million or so.
And that's obviously a pretax number.
So at a $2.25 billion loss we have a $500 million recovery pretax.
We paid whatever we paid for the coverage on a net recovery basis in the first event then you got to pay the reinstatement premium you actually have modest recovery in that first event.
It's really a second event reinsurance program and we don't actually buy much except the only area where it's important to us is in the Northeast.
We actually have obviously the cat bond and we have a separate Northeast wind cover that's meaningful given our exposures.
And we wouldn't expect -- I don't know how to respond to the Northeast and the bond issue longer term but in the context of the standard reinsurance market we wouldn't expect a significant increase in dollars because what we pay for the policy is actually is not all that much.
So even if it goes up some it's not going to be a meaningful change in dollars.
So do you anticipate -- I mean there's a lot of controversy right now in terms of whether all the significant catastrophe losses in Asia-Pacific are going to sort of bleed over to the U.S.? What are your thoughts there? I think you should ask the reinsurers.
I have no idea.
And our next question is from Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Not to make this all about workers’ comp but I was just curious on the non-guaranteed cost side with the economy picking up and presumably that would mean that the Dallas is under management probably go up too.
Is the outlook for the C [ph] income you generate on the business potentially going to get better over the next couple of years? The short answer Matt is yes.
We're all anxious and watch the economy and what it actually does but we're seeing a little bit of a lift and we would expect that to continue.
It's actually interesting the -- I think this is what I'm about to say is correct.
The private market workers’ compensation premium was $38 billion in 2007.
The estimate for 2010 once all the data is in is $28 billion.
10 on 38 obviously almost 25% reduction driven by the combination of lower employment and some decline in rate.
So the change in workers’ comp in the market broadly speaking has been really quite significant and it will be interesting to see to the extent that employment begins to recover to what extent that $28 billion begins to lift back up in the direction of that historical high.
Just on the -- specifically on the Management Liability piece when I was looking at the presentation in terms of the rate change there that was one that stood out relative to a lot of the channel checks and market commentaries being a bit different because most competitors I think are describing that as more competitive and rates moving down 5% to 10%.
I know some people are minimizing rate declines by changing kind of the position that they have on contracts.
So could you just maybe give a little bit more color on that book specifically in terms of just the rate and maybe it's a product issue too but...
Sure it's Alan Schnitzer.
It's tough to answer those questions because people think about Management Liability broadly again as one thing and it's really not.
We've got different business units so what we see in financial institutions behaves differently than what we see in public company liability versus what we see in private nonprofit.
DNO is different than ENO is different than employee practices liability.
So it's really hard to answer that on a portfolio basis.
If I think about what's impacting us the majority of our premium there is in our private nonprofit book so the smaller account.
And the rate dynamic there has been different and I'd say less significant than what we've seen in the larger account side.
So that's probably the distinction I would make on rate.
Okay.
And then how about on the FI and the public commercial DNO side? Can you just give a little commentary to what you're seeing there? Sure.
I'm not sure if you're -- if this is about -- if you’re talking about rate of the loss side but on the rate side...
More on the rate side.
On the rate side I think that as you get in larger account sizes almost regardless of the industry or the product line.
The larger account sizes are -- the rate environment is more competitive.
So I think the same would apply in public company liability and FI as compared to say at private non-profit book.
And our next question is from the line of Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Looking at the resolution of prior tax matters the one-time tax item? It's consolidated under the underwriting gain I guess the way you define it.
Can you sort of walk through a little bit how that hits the P&amp;L? In terms of the way we manage our expenses and income we as a rule take all of the items and allocate to the various business segments.
We don't have a large corporate component to our expense structure or our revenue structure as you can see when you look through the information that we have in our 10-K and 10-Q.
So when we have things like tax matters that get settled we go back to the segments that gave rise to them in the first place.
And to the extent there's a tax benefit it just goes right back to the segment.
So that's what drives the earnings piece of it.
As it relates to other elements of it like combined ratio combined ratio is a pretax concept.
So the tax benefit has absolutely no impact whatsoever on the combined ratio.
My apologies I misunderstood that.
Thank you for clarifying.
The second question I have is I'm looking at the historical financials.
I noticed in the past some of the previous slide from prior conference calls have different numbers than the previous ones in terms of -- is this audit premiums going back and revising the past slides? Yes you're talking about the production statistics that we might have on rate and renewal price change and exposure right? Yes.
Yes so those numbers developed just like -- not a dissimilar concept to loss numbers developing.
So as we go through we're looking at the monthly/quarterly production numbers.
We're reporting the same numbers that we look at internally as to what we think is going on with the pricing and the retention and the renewal.
But invariably they were going to be accounts for example that we believe we thought at the close of the month we'd retained and we find out two weeks later that we actually did not.
So those come out of the statistics.
So the numbers do move.
And we do put a notation on the slides as well as anywhere where we provide estimates associated with statistics that we use to run our business that these are in part actuarial estimates subject to change and when they change we restate the past.
Very good.
And finally one more question on workers comp.
Is there anything broadly speaking you can talk to how these statistics look different excluding the workers comp? No.
We don't have them.
I mean we could calculate them obviously but we don't disclose them right.
We don't disclose at that level of granularity.
[Operator Instructions] I would reiterate what I said before though is that across Business Insurance we had great improvement across all the lines of business.
So it wasn't just comp but comp had the greatest.
Our next question is from the line of Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
My two questions are cap deployment and then the direct auto initiative.
On cap deployment I just wanted to clarify that the guidance was indeed increased from the last time you guys gave us your thoughts.
Specifically it was increased by the amount of reserved releases as well as the after-tax impact of the tax scheme [ph].
Is that true? Actually I would say just the opposite.
We entered the year with a view as to what our share buybacks were going to be.
We gave you some insight in the first quarter -- in the fourth quarter press release -- I’m sorry in the fourth quarter webcast as to how to think about that.
It's very early in the year and we're at this point in time not changing our view internally as to what the overall level of buybacks are going to be for the full year 2011.
It's worth going back a little bit because this is a little -- it's unusual and somewhat out of context.
A year ago we said that we were going to stop giving earnings per share guidance in 2011.
But we also said that we would provide meaningful insight into what we plan to do from the share buyback perspective because that's a number that we believed was really not determinable from the outside looking in.
So the way that we did that back at the first quarter was to say that at least for our own planning purposes that we were assuming that the share buybacks would be our estimate of earnings plus $1.5 billion.
And that of course allowed observers to make their own estimates.
And so while it's funny to be talking about guidance of an individual item that's not tied in some way to earnings guidance what we are attempting to say is notwithstanding the results in the first quarter whatever they were at least for our own purposes at the moment we continue to assume the same dollar level that we did when we gave that information three months ago.
Okay.
But I guess from my perspective we all have different estimates of what the after-tax op income will be.
When we exit the year whatever your after-tax op income is plus $1.5 billion is what the share buyback will be for 2011.
Is that -- am I understanding it appropriately? Well the share buyback will be whatever it turns out to be right? Whatever and there's a lot of things between now and the end of the year that may in fact affect that one way or another.
But for planning purposes what we again tried to give you was at least some guidance so that you'll be able to make those estimates for yourself.
And I think -- not I think.
What we're really saying to you is not to adjust to that number on a very granular quarter-by-quarter basis if we think something has changed we'll certainly let you know.
But it's not -- it just isn't quite as formulated as the notion of earnings plus $1.5 billion.
We wanted to -- the reason we did that was we were intentionally stepping away from the process of giving earnings guidance.
And so we were trying to be as transparent as we could in the circumstance and give you as much information as we could to the extent that there are circumstances during the year that arise good or bad that cause us to think about that share buyback in some meaningfully different way we will continue to give you the insight that we're capable of giving.
Our advice here is not to overreact to your perception of the first quarter.
Great.
And then also on capital deployment could you just address the dividend.
The increase is a healthy increase.
What is your dividend policy and how did you settle in on $0.41 a share as being the right number as opposed to something else? Well you know $0.40 could’ve been right also.
It’s not -- again it's hardly that precise.
But our mindset has been to set a dividend level that reflects the fact that we're in a business that has great earnings volatility.
We always recognize that the 1-in-1 000 event could happen this year.
And it could happen twice this year.
Just because it's 1-in-1 000 doesn't mean that it's 0.
It's possible.
So our goal is to evaluate our cash flows recognizing that the share buyback has reduced the number of shares significantly overtime.
Actually I think in about half at this point we're down to about half of the shares when we started.
So we are able to increase the dividend I think thoughtfully but always keep it at a level that even looking at the tail risks of our business it would be unlikely -- I don't want to say 0 again.
We’re not a 0 basis kind of company.
But it would be unlikely to be in a position of having to make a change in that regard.
So and what we do is to the extent that there is additional capital above and beyond that we obviously deploy it in the share buyback program.
So that's the thinking.
And it really it doesn't -- it actually is not driven by a set payout ratio because our earnings can change meaningfully based upon natural events or otherwise.
It's set at a level where we have a reasonable degree of confidence that in a lot of scenarios that we would be in a position of being able to support a continuation of the dividend.
And then just on the direct business the direct auto initiative it's obviously growing very -- it looks like it's up almost 50% year-over-year just premiums.
There is a P&amp;L drag as well.
But just curious your updated thoughts on that trajectory and where this potentially could go over time? Greg and I will tag team this as well.
When we set on this venture we were very clear and transparent that this was long-term in nature.
And we are not yet at that long-term level.
We are still very much -- meaning we are still in the process of learning and learning enough to what we hope ultimately will put us in a position to be able to deploy the resources of this company in a thoughtful substantive way and actually grow that business hopefully meaningfully.
We don't yet know enough to do that.
We don't know enough about the pricing of the product.
We don't yet know enough about how to convert quotes into sales at a level that's likely to produce a long-term profitable return.
So our investment in this regard is as in effect as little as it can be while still allowing us to learn as much as we're capable of learning.
And that's a real trade-off that we decide every year.
So it's still I would say at best -- it may not be the early days it's later it's certainly further on than that.
You will see a change this year in our advertising program to be more of an “operators are standing by” type of advertising.
For those of you who aren't old enough to remember what that means it's really the decades-ago dynamic of call now.
Call now we're going to obviously not embrace the call-now dynamic but you are going to see more of a drive to action-oriented advertising.
And we'll see how responsive that is.
I think you can talk about the digital world too as long as we're at it.
Sure.
This is Greg Toczydlowski.
Just to echo Jay's comments I'll start with the assessment.
We're as encouraged today as when we started the investment around where the future value of that is.
We've spent a lot of time as Jay talked about in the advertising arena not only in creating and executing ads but trying to understand an attribute the sales across all the mediums the one that Jay just talked about was on the digital front.
We're spending a lot of time inside that arena and really working the search optimization and display-type ads and building good capability there.
And I certainly don't want to pick at your words but there is a little bit of a bias in the industry that -- I think your words were “the direct auto initiative.” If you look at the statistical supplement you'll see -- do some quick math and over 40% of the PIF is in the property lines.
And we really think that's where we -- we've a long-term strategic competitive advantage there with the breadth of our product and the strength of that property line.
And I think consumers have seen that.
So in the early days we're very pleased what -- how we're building that capability and what the profile of the customers look like.
We've also hired some two terrific leaders in the last year for that business: one out of Microsoft and one out of the direct industry not insurance but someone with real skill in building a direct response business.
And so these are all steps in the right direction to building what we hope will be a successful venture.
Our next question is from the line of Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
Know that most of the increase in your accident year ex-cat combined ratio for personal was non-cat weather.
But you had said in the first quarter excuse me coming out of last year that you expected personal lines premium – personal lines margins to be improving this year.
And I mean adjusted for the non-cat weather I'm just curious whether you still feel that way? Good morning Larry this is Greg Toczydlowski again.
Yes up to this quarter we certainly did see relatively low loss cost trends both frequency and severity.
And we saw rate outpacing that.
Clearly this quarter we could see was in the weather lines and then we really segment the data and look at a geography level and the coverage line we could see it predominantly in the physical damage coverages.
So when we looked -- that we're expecting normal weather patterns for the rest of the year we still believe in that statement that our loss cost trends will be offset with slightly more rate.
Yes and I've just observed that God has His own plan for the weather.
And while obviously that statement is always going to be measured relative to -- in particularly in the non-cat area where obviously we're out of pattern here for the first three months anyway.
Sure.
I appreciate that.
And then second question Brian your comments on Surety competition can you just elaborate a little bit? Is that just coming from the traditional players? Are you seeing any new capacity moving into that area? Larry it's Alan Schnitzer I’ll take that.
I would say that we are continuing to see a lot of capacity and just a lot more bold activity on the part of previously existing capacity.
I wouldn't say that it's necessarily new entrants into the marketplace although there's always puts and takes on that as well.
And our next question is from Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
I’ve got two questions.
The first is in looking at the Select Account business and you've had consistent renewal rate improvements there.
I guess I'm assuming that a fair amount of this business gets renewed fairly automatically with some modest increases and it's not too much of a push to get those increases.
Is that oversimplifying it? You know slightly but directionally it's right.
And we're obviously looking at that class by class so it's not -- we talk about the individually underwritten stuff and deal by deal.
I don't want to imply that this is just one big bucket.
But we are looking at industry classes and kind of bucketing it that way.
But directionally Jay you're right.
A lot of it is automatically handled.
On the express side about 80% of that business goes through without being touched by a person.
And there's obviously ability to drive a little bit of price through there that we've been successful with.
And like you said you can see the numbers on whatever that is Page 11 that would reinforce that.
And the statistics I last looked at in Select was that 80% of the accounts have not had a loss in the last 3 years and as a consequence the loss experience for an individual account is not terribly relevant but the size of the book and the ability to determine the right price for the class is what the secret sauce is all about.
And so that's what we're responding to there is the loss dynamics from a class perspective.
Got it.
And then the other question.
I forget exactly who used the word but -- maybe it was Brian when you were talking about rate increases you suggested the environment was becoming more receptive.
I think most of your discussion on the pure rate environment has been about your efforts to target selectively rates and getting the right price for the right risk but are you seeing a reaction by your competitors to act in a more disciplined fashion? Obviously it’ll vary a lot by a line of business and by size of account.
But is there any underlying trend where that might be the case? Brian and I we’re going to tag team this a little bit.
We often get asked who's stepping on the gas? There’s lot of different ways to ask that question.
And the anecdotal observation that we have to that is nobody.
We just haven't seen competition -- we just haven't seen competition where we turn back and we scratch our head.
Broadly speaking you could always find an individual account or an individual transaction that doesn't make sense to one carrier versus another.
But it's not as if we look broadly at the marketplace and we say “Gee we can't figure that strategy out.” And it's been interesting because again I think the observers to the industry have perceived that there is someone like that.
And I think -- I know there's actually been some commentary to that effect.
We haven't seen -- we don't come to that conclusion.
And I think it's evidenced in the retention rates that are universally strong amongst the best competitors.
Now ours I think if you look at the real data ours is probably the highest.
But when you look at what we think of as the great middle market accounts they're all historically at pretty solid levels relative to their own circumstances and if there were someone who were really acting that way carrier or carriers we think you'd see more churns.
This gets back to our view of the kind of the mythical cycle dynamics.
I find it interesting that people talk about it being a soft environment.
And it may be at the top line.
If you look at our earnings per share last year before tax look at all the earnings that we generate earnings per share pretax.
Last year was actually our best earnings-per-share year ever.
And you can say yes it was favorable development or it was this or it was that the negative is investment returns have been challenged but it's been interesting to us that the observation of the challenging marketplace and we acknowledge that with respect to the top line really hasn't translated through the bottom line so...
[Technical Difficulty] Real quickly Jay at the beginning as you teed it up we tend to first and foremost look at our own information.
So we look at the fact that as I said throughout this quarter and really through just about two straight quarters now month by month we've seen a little bit of improvement every month in pricing and this month we saw retention improved by 2 points and we look at the combination of those and it says we're not pushing too hard.
We hear the rhetoric and the anecdotes just like you do.
One of the things -- one of the reasons why we say we don't see the big amplitude in the cycle is that 5 years ago certainly 10 years ago in our offices there would be all those anecdotes.
Everyone would rattle off “These are the two or three markets that are behaving crazy in the world today.” And we don't get that same level of noise out of our folks.
But you're right.
We look at our own information first and we feel good about our data.
So...
And our last question is from the line of Vinay Misquith with Crédit Suisse.
Just to follow up on Jay's question before has an improving economy helped you and your ability to take rates up? I try hard to separate what we know from what we speculate.
I know the data.
I know the numbers.
Exactly why we've been successful in that strategy would be speculative on our part.
It was interesting and I -- you can look at the data when the economy was deteriorating going back now just 2 or 3 years ago we were actually able to move rate in the right direction.
Now I don't know that it ever got positive but it certainly as the time went on became less negative.
Now that was -- that would be contrary to what one would think.
So I'm respectful of the complexity of our industry and the data that comes at us.
I can only share with you that we've been -- it would be hard to overestimate the nature of engagement of the leadership in Business Insurance and Personal Insurance with the folks in the field about how to operate in this environment.
So I can tell you that the direction has been specific with clarity one would even argue intense.
That doesn't mean intense pressure but an intense involvement.
And whether that's attributable to an improving economy or the value of the franchise which is sort of the one that I personally endorse but I’ll leave that to others to speculate more subsequently.
Fair enough.
And this is a follow-up to that.
How do you see pricing versus loss cost trends for the future based on where you're pricing right now? I assume you're talking about written because earned is what it is.
And that's baked in to our -- and I say baked in it's very very predictable.
But we haven't -- just to be -- and then I'm going to turn it over to Brian.
We haven't actually done the arithmetic to sit here and say that if rate continues to improve at this level and loss trend doesn't turn when written rate would exceed loss trends.
So we just haven't done it yet.
But we're -- this is encouraging.
The last couple of quarters is encouraging.
And you...
I go back and repeat the numbers I said before about frequency and severity and then we're not making a projection of what we think rate’s going to be over the next however many quarters.
But we are encouraged with the trends that we’ve seen in the last 5 or 6 months now and you can do the arithmetic.
And we watch the loss cost closely and so any of the variables could move.
And again we've just been a company that has refrained from making predictions about rate.
There are so many variables: the economy energy prices.
All sorts of things interact with this.
And so we're real pleased with what we did in the first quarter we're feeling -- as I said in the press release cautiously but increasingly optimistic and we'll keep our fingers crossed for the second quarter.
That's kind of been -- not that it's about luck but that the environment continues to be supportive of the strategy that we're employing.
Operator thank you.
You're very welcome.
We have no more questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call back to you.
Yes thanks for joining.
As always Andrew Hersom and I are available in Investor Relations for any follow-up questions.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Thursday July 21 2011.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our second quarter 2011 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investor section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through our prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
With that Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Given the fact that we disclosed as much as we did at our June 10 Investor Day our results shouldn't be much of a surprise.
In April and May it was all weather all the time.
Total after-tax catastrophe costs for the quarter were just under $1.1 billion generating a loss for the quarter.
The tornado and hailstorms in those 2 months were unprecedented in their size scope geographic dispersion and destructiveness.
A loss of life was substantial and our hearts go out to those who been personally impacted by the events.
In that regard our immediate focus is on delivering outstanding claim service and support to those who have had losses.
Our entire claim organization is very much on the case and energized to do this right.
We're well aware of the demand that events like this place on the claim organization and we're thankful for their dedication and professionalism.
We're also well aware that events of this magnitude will happen from time-to-time.
It is critical that we price our product and manage our exposure thoughtfully.
In that regard we have great confidence in our data analytical skill and underwriting expertise.
Given the hail and tornado we experienced in the last few years we are gaining a better and more granular understanding of the tail risk associated with these types of storms.
Even in these early days following the April and May storms we are focusing on improving rate and/or terms and conditions in those geographies that may be more exposed to these kinds of storms than history has suggested.
Importantly it is events such as these that reinforce our view that the correct way of defining success in our business is to measure returns over time.
While we are certainly not pleased that we had a loss in the quarter we know we are on the right path in running our business appropriately.
There is no lack of enthusiasm or optimism here.
In that regard we are very encouraged that a number of important parameters of our business continue to improve.
In Business Insurance exposure in the quarter improved and audit premiums which were negative throughout the financial crisis turned positive in the first quarter and grew meaningfully this quarter.
Perhaps most importantly we continue to be successful in delivering written rate improvements particularly in Business Insurance.
The overall pure renewal rate gain in Business Insurance excluding National Accounts was just over 2% for the quarter demonstrating the success we are having in driving rate improvement.
Retention remains at very strong levels and all of the anecdotal feedback from our organization remains solid.
We are executing on this strategy effectively.
As we've said before we are not waiting for some mythical turn in the P&amp;C cycle to improve our pricing.
We are driving rate improvement on a measured basis particularly for those specific accounts where rate is needed to produce acceptable returns.
We are also encouraged that there are signs that economic activity may be improving.
While it remains somewhat anecdotal I was personally encouraged by the article of yesterday's Wall Street Journal on C2 in which a number of banks reported an uptick in commercial lending.
Early results from the credit card sector as well as results from the tech industry over the last few days are also encouraging.
And while it does seem that we are coming down to the wire with respect to a federal debt limit solution it may be that they are the beginnings of a bipartisan agreement.
And it is encouraging that more states are dealing with their own financial situations building foundations for an improved fiscal outlook.
Before I turn it over to Jay let me make a brief comment about our share repurchase philosophy.
Simply put it remains unchanged.
Our premise for the creation of shareholder value is that we will generate top-tier earnings and return excess capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
The fact that we had a loss in the quarter rather than our historical level of earnings impacted our share repurchases but only in the second quarter.
With less internal capital generated there's less capital to return.
On the premise that weather patterns return to more normal levels and our profitability returns to historical levels and to the extent that the capital can be put back to work in our business for growth opportunities we will continue buying back shares.
Summing up while the weather was challenging it is the business we are in.
We're doing all the right things and remain on the right track to create superior shareholder value.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
There are a few things I'd like to highlight about our operating results in the quarter.
First in early June at our Investor Day conference we disclosed an expected range of $1.0 billion to $1.05 billion after-tax and reinsurance for cat losses relating to the extraordinary tornado and hailstorm activity that had occurred in April and May.
While our current estimates for those storms remain within that range additional storms that occurred in June brought total cat losses for the quarter up to $1.085 billion after-tax and reinsurance.
Second we continue to see net favorable reserve development in each of our segments although at a lesser amount this quarter in Business Insurance than we have experienced in recent quarters.
Third x cat in TYG [ph] underwriting margins were impacted by several items in the quarter.
The re-estimation of certain first quarter non-cat winter storm losses in Business and Personal Insurance adverse current quarter non-cat weather-related losses in PI for both homeowners and auto as well as a larger number of large dollar prior losses in Personal Insurance.
Adjusting for all of these items underlying underwriting margins were generally in line with our expectations which included as we've previously anticipated and disclosed modest margin compression in Business Insurance where earned rate increases were not keeping pace with changes in underlying losses.
I'd also like to add that investment portfolio continued to perform very well.
Net investment income was down slightly from the prior year quarter as the impacts of lower fixed income reinvestment rates and lower average assets due to our share repurchase activity during the past 12 months were mostly offset by strong performance in our non-fixed income investment portfolio.
Finally our net unrealized investment gains net of tax increased by $400 million from the beginning of the quarter from $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion.
Book value per share of $59.62 although down less than 0.5 percentage point in the quarter due to the cat losses has increased 2% since the beginning of the year and 7% in the past 12 months.
Year-to-date we repurchased 1.3 billion of common stock including 237 million in the second quarter and paid $330 million in dividends.
While in the past 12 months we repurchased 3.5 billion of common stock and paid $659 million in dividends.
Our capital management strategy worked very well in the quarter and remains the same as it has been.
Despite the extremely large cat losses there was no meaningful change in our balance sheet strength between the beginning and end of the quarter.
Shareholders' equity and stat surplus was still over $25 billion and $20 billion respectively.
Debt-to-total capital was 22.5% well within our target range.
And holding company liquidity was $2.4 billion more than twice our target level.
And based upon first half results and consistent with our announcement at Investor Day we expect common share repurchases in the second half of the year to approximate $400 million in excess of second half operating income.
Finally I'd also like to point out that we successfully renewed our cat treaties keeping essentially the same structure but at a slightly higher cost.
The new treaties are outlined on Pages 19 and 20 of the webcast and are described more fully on our second quarter 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
With that Brian's now going to provide some further insight into our results.
Thanks Jay.
The obvious headline for our results this quarter was the extraordinary tornadoes and hailstorms that impacted the industry.
To give you a perspective on the magnitude of these events when measured as a percentage of our earned premiums our cat losses this quarter were 12x our 20-plus year average for second quarter cats and almost 4x larger than our next largest second quarter which happened to be last year.
So clearly the level of catastrophes we experienced this quarter was extraordinary.
And in addition to the weather events that hit the catastrophe disclosure threshold our second quarter combined ratio was significantly impacted my non-catastrophe weather events and developments on the first quarter winter storm activity.
The significant and unpredictable impact of weather notwithstanding we remained pleased with the underlying performance of the franchise and continue to see positive signs across our businesses and in the operating environment.
Beginning with Business Insurance we had another very strong quarter for top line.
Net written premiums continued their positive trend and were up year-over-year driven by increases in pricing and exposure along with modest account growth.
Retention and new business levels although down in the quarter remained at high levels.
Looking at pricing the momentum we saw in the first quarter accelerated as the rate was up 2 points compared to 1 point of positive rate in the first quarter of 2011 and negative rate in the second quarter of 2010.
We are encouraged that rate was positive for all lines of business and in fact increased in all lines of business from last quarter with workers’ compensation leading the way.
As we discussed last quarter our pricing strategy is to actively manage rate in a thoughtful and targeted manner that seeks to minimize disruption to our agents and customers.
We believe our results this quarter demonstrate that this strategy is working.
We also see momentum in exposure up over 1 point in the quarter compared to being essentially flat both last quarter and the second quarter of 2010.
This growth in exposure combined with the audit premiums that were positive for the second consecutive quarter demonstrates that the improving economic trends we noted in the first quarter have continued.
Turning to operating earnings.
We were impacted significantly by the cats that I just discussed as well as by less favorable prior-year development versus the second quarter of 2010.
Second quarter results have also been negatively impacted by approximately $40 million after-tax or about 2.2 loss ratio points for Business Insurance due to the re-estimation of certain first quarter losses primarily related to the development of non-catastrophe winter weather and to a lesser extent workers’ compensation.
Overall if you look at underlying Business Insurance margins on a year-to-date basis they are about where we expected them to be.
Before I go to the other segments I want to take a few minutes and talk about workers’ compensation because there's a lot of anecdotal marketplace conversation about the line.
Comp is one of our long tail lines of business with a duration of about 8 years on a new block and 11 years for the reserves.
We actively manage all our lines of business and in the case of workers' comp our conclusion is that in the aggregate we feel very positive about our book.
On the severity side we've not seen any substantial change in the risk.
Medical cost trends continue around in fact slightly below our expectations and lost time activity has remained stable.
We are encouraged by the reform activity already approved in numerous states and under consideration in many more.
These are obviously aggregate marketplace comments and there are certainly jurisdictions where we see more challenging environment.
And accordingly we are taking the necessary actions in those states.
For example in one state where we are seeing increased losses along with a more difficult legislative environment we are achieving rate gain significantly above the average for the line and in the case of Commercial Accounts well into the mid-teens.
We also feel good on the frequency side.
But there's more texture underneath the trend and I want to share with you how we look at it.
The graph on Page 12 of the webcast shows our workers' comp frequency for lost time claims from 2006 to the first quarter of 2011.
The green curve is actual claims frequency or more specifically the fourth quarter rolling average of our reported lost time claims at 12 months.
Through 2006 and 2007 the trend was consistent with the long-term average of about a 2% per annum decline in this measure of claim frequency.
The dotted blue line on the graph shows a hypothetical trend of reported claims if we simply extrapolate the historical 2% per annum reduction.
With the beginning of the financial crisis in 2008 the actual trend began to diverge from this historical pattern.
And by 2009 comp frequency had dropped to levels that were unusually low and in our opinion even at that time were not sustainable for the long term.
Consequently in the aggregate we were not pricing new or renewal policies assuming this unsustainable level of frequency would continue.
Off of these lows we've seen an increase of claim frequency and it is happening somewhat sooner than we had anticipated.
It's important to note that the frequency is still below the extrapolated pre-crisis trend line which again represents a 2% per annum drop in the measure.
And while it's early the most recent data is beginning to point to a flattening.
We believe that the movement of frequency trends in the last 3 years have been attributable to the economy.
And in that light recent uptick could actually be evidence of some economic improvement for the classes of business that we insure.
So bottom line although there's been some movement in frequency it's still at levels that are consistent with long-term improvement.
All in we believe the prospects to the line are sound but we're not standing on the side lines relative to pricing.
In the aggregate we are driving for rate.
And we are encouraged by the fact that our most significant written rate gains in this quarter are in the workers' comp line.
Turning to Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment.
Operating income was down modestly from the prior-year quarter reflecting lower net investment income.
Underwriting gain saw a slight decrease which is the net of a few items primarily more favorable prior-year development offset by an increase in catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather.
Excluding cats and prior-year redevelopment underlying loss margins were consistent year-over-year while expense dollars were up modestly due to the investments we continue to make in this business.
In International net written premiums were up year-over-year with strong results in Lloyd's Canada and the U.K.
more than offsetting the impact of the termination of an exclusive distribution relationship in Ireland.
In both Bond &amp; Financial Products surety results continue to be impacted by sluggishness in construction spending.
We believe we offer a unique value proposition in this business and we are very satisfied with the margins and the quality of our portfolio.
In management liability we saw significantly improved production results in the quarter and remain satisfied with our overall returns.
Finally we completed the acquisition of our joint venture interest in Brazil which gives us an ownership position in the market leader of the Brazilian surety business.
We're pleased about the opportunity to leverage our leading U.S.
surety franchise as well as our other franchises to expand beyond the surety business into the growing property and casualty markets in Brazil.
Moving to Personal Insurance.
The weather in the quarter both catastrophic and non-catastrophic drove the operating loss.
Prior-year development for the segment was up year-over-year driven largely by the favorable development of 2010 cats.
Excluding cats and prior-year development the Personal Insurance combined ratio increased by approximately 5 points quarter-over-quarter.
The majority of the increase was driven by adverse non-cat weather losses in Homeowners and even Auto some of which related to first quarter storms.
A smaller financial impact resulted from a higher number of severe fire losses in Homeowners.
Turning to production results.
We had another good quarter with both lines of business posting growth in policies in force and net written premiums.
Renewal premium change was up year-over-year in both Auto and Homeowners and other.
Retention remains near historic highs for both lines and new business is solid but down slightly from recent quarters.
So in summary while this quarter was a strong reminder of how the unpredictability of weather can drive results we remain very positive about the underlying strength of the business.
We continue to see some improvements in the market environment and we believe we are well positioned for success going forward.
With that Jennifer we'll now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Mark Gelly [ph] from Barclays Capital.
This is Jay Gelb from Barclays Capital.
I wanted to touch base on the environmental increase on the reserves and if that could have any implications for asbestos given what we saw at the Hartford? Jay this is Jay Benet.
As it relates to environmental I would say that look at the environment itself there really hasn't been a major change in the environment.
We experienced the same kind of favorable trends in claim payments that we had been experiencing.
As we've said before we extrapolate information that we have into some formulaic views of what the ultimate loss costs are going to be.
And it doesn't take a lot of change in the actual environment to make for some dollar changes in the reserves.
So while I would say we saw the same favorable trends the favorable trends were a little less than we had anticipated in our calculation.
So that was the adjustment nothing major going on.
And as it relates to asbestos we really don't have any comments to make here.
I'd say overall the environment for asbestos has not changed fundamentally from the way we viewed it last year.
And as it relates to where we are as you know we do our quarterly procedures on asbestos.
The quarterly procedures didn't lead to any kind of change in the reserve.
We also do a real detailed overall claim review that we complete annually.
We're expecting to complete that in the third quarter.
And at that time we'll see what the asbestos reserves will look.
And then a separate issue on capital management.
Am I right in thinking that the debt-to-capital level is more of a constraint in terms of how much stock Travelers can buy that at this point? If it's 22.5% now debt-to-capital what's the kind of range that the company is comfortable with? We generally talk about a range of somewhere between 15% and 25% associated with a AA rating.
And one of the things I'd point out about the 22.5% there's about a point of that that relates to essentially prefunding some future debt.
We took advantage of the low interest rate environment last year to do some retirement of our convertible hybrids that we had.
But we also had some excess that we just kept on the balance sheet to be able to use to pay off future debt.
So as a result as it relates to that range we do have lots of flexibility in the range.
And we'll continue to manage the overall capital position with that in mind with the operating company capital being first and foremost as well as the liquidity at the holding company which we've already said many many times has a target level of about $1.1 billion.
Okay.
And I just want to clarify that.
So does that mean Travelers is okay going up to 25% debt-to-cap? Or would that be too high to be at that end of the range? As far as the rating agencies' discussion if we did it in a way that took advantage of low interest rates.
Well I mean we have flexibility.
Yes but I wouldn't -- Jay this is Jay Fishman.
The question "Is Travelers okay at 25%?" implies or the question may imply that we intend to leverage up for the purpose of buying back more shares.
And that's just not how we think about managing our balance sheet where the range at least as we understand it that supports a strong AA rating in our business which is where we belong is in that 15% to 25%.
We always want to leave some flexibility to deal with unexpected issues.
We recognize the kinds of events that we saw this quarter could happen again and they could happen even worse.
And so we don't run our business at the edge.
But it's that range that really establishes the notion of that 15% to 25% range is the range that we understand is in support of a AA rating.
Our next question is from the line of Matthew Heimermann from JPMorgan.
I guess I just wanted to follow up on the asbestos question.
Can you just remind us because I don't think you report this anywhere anymore just what survival ratio looks when you adjust for buyouts and settlements? Not really a statistic I keep at the top of my head because it's not something we think is terribly relevant.
We can calculate -- we get it for you though.
And we -- the way of looking at it is a good way of looking at it so taking out the settlement activity but we just have to get the data.
Yes that's fair.
I just wondered.
I can do the raw numbers but I suspect there's probably a material difference.
So I just want to make sure I'm thinking about it correctly.
I guess the other question maybe for Brian is just could you give us a little bit more color on the rate increases by kind of core product line? And I guess I was thinking about maybe how work comp contrast with property and how that contrasts with maybe general liability and then maybe other specialty liability lines? So broadly as I said I think in a couple of spots the largest increases are in comp.
Positive increases everywhere but consistently what we in the market have been saying for probably the last year.
Property's probably at the tail end of it.
So strongest increases in comp.
When you say property you're really thinking about Business Insurance.
Yes.
It's all about Business Insurance.
Yes.
So on the first party's side and probably over the last couple of years the larger the account the more challenging the pricing environment has been.
We're seeing improvements everywhere so we're encouraged that again even on the property side it's gone from negatives to albeit small but small positives.
We're also seeing in the large property world a little bit of favorable movement on the terms and conditions rhetoric in the marketplace.
And so that's very encouraging in that business and held somewhere in between.
All right.
So if I -- just to restate what you said if I could kind of think about where comp greater than the 2 pretty much property less than 2 pretty much everything else was probably clustered around the average? Yes both yes.
As it relates to the survival ratio that you're asking about x the settlement activity it's probably close to 8%.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions.
The first is just a numbers question.
In the interest and other segment as you break it out the G&amp;A number was quite a bit higher than it had been running.
And I'm wondering what's behind that.
The second question you kind of alluded to the fact that we're obviously dealing with a debt ceiling at this point and there's been obviously some noise about a potential downgrade for U.S.
Treasury securities.
Have you thought about the implications? Or should that happen hopefully it doesn't but should it happen what it might be for you specifically maybe annuities might get downgraded as well? On the last question Jay I -- we don't know.
I mean that's the simple answer.
It's unimaginable right unthinkable that a sovereign entity that has a printing press in the basement somehow makes a decision to stop printing.
We don't -- and so I simply don't know.
We don't know the consequences of what a technical default a partial default or anything else might be.
We'll play it out as it comes.
Fair enough that's my answer too.
I have no clue.
As far as what you are seeing in interest in other from time-to-time we have some items that will impact that.
As a rule we allocate costs throughout our business segments to minimize the amount of costs that's sitting in the interest and other.
So it's got a very low base.
In this particular case there was a legal matter that was settled and it impacted it.
But it's a nonrecurring item and that's as much as we'd like to share about them.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Just going back to the discussion on asbestos one of the other companies recently added to their reserves.
And they talked about increase their claim activity against smaller peripheral insurers.
Am I understanding this correctly that you are not seeing that trend in your numbers? I wouldn't say that at all.
I'd say we've been seeing that trend a long time and our reserves are reflecting that.
But you are not seeing any comparative adverse trends? Not based on what we had expected.
Okay that's actually helpful.
The only other question I have is on the new business.
If I look back over the past 4 quarters it has trended down.
And I'm just wondering is that a function of your attempt to drive pricing? Or is that a function of competition? I would say it's hard for me to separate those a little bit.
But certainly as any carrier begins to drive for some rate improvement you're going to get some reaction in new business levels and you're going to get some reaction in retention levels.
So that's what we've seen on the Business Insurance side.
And we're very comfortable with the trade-offs that we're seeing there in the activity.
Why don't you comment on our view of the pricing with new business? Yes I think that one of the things we are encouraged by directionally is the last quarter certainly maybe 2 quarters throughout this year.
That environment we think has actually improved slightly.
And there's always a delta between as we've talked about a zillion times a delta between renewal and new pricing.
But that is -- that has shrunk over the last couple of quarters.
And so directionally we feel that's moving in the right place.
We've actually gotten a couple of things going on there.
The first is obviously as renewal pricing lifts you're working off a higher base.
And then I think importantly but I wouldn't declare a definitive trend here that's unassailable.
But importantly the spread between new and renewal has narrowed meaning that the gap between the renewal price and new price was wider.
Previously it's more narrow off a higher number.
So Brian's comment about it improving is a complex one and really is impacted by both the level of renewals as well as that spread.
And I didn't know if you were talking about just BI.
But on the Personal Insurance side we think there's some of the movement there as the economy and slowdown in new auto sales and shopping and home sales.
And then some of it is probably a little bit of reaction to our pricing strategy there.
Our next question is from the line of Brian Meredith from UBS.
Two questions here.
The first one just with respect to workers’ compensation.
You made a comment that you were pricing in line with the trend line versus -- extrapolated trend line versus back in '09.
I'm curious do reserving practices follow the same kind of pattern as pricing.
Yes.
First...
We're going to [indiscernible].
Go ahead.
Two things.
One is we were not pricing fully up on the extrapolated trend line either.
We were somewhere in between.
And what I think any carrier is going to do is they're going to look at changing trends and they've got to decide "Do I ignore it? Do I fully incorporated it? Or do I look at someplace in between?" And we were someplace in between and I -- probably my comments didn't make that crystal clear.
So we didn't fully incorporate the downturn.
And now I've -- from a reserving side yes we will reserve and price somewhat differently in that.
As we look at trends and as they emerge we should appropriately reflect the actual trends reserving for the business that's written and the accident years that those losses are coming from.
So we more incorporate into our reserving the facts that we see.
Obviously we're coming up with an estimate of what we think the ultimate is going to be out of those.
With the exception of Brian's comment in his prepared remarks that the lift off the bottom was somewhat faster or sooner.
However one wants to interpret it then we had originally assumed.
We've actually so far done a good job of ultimately picking the developed numbers pretty pretty close.
We've had a series of years of favorable development in workers' comp because our assumption about development was actually not that.
It was less than that.
And with the exception of how fast we assumed that bottoming out would move back is the only area where we missed a little.
And I do think it's actually missed a little.
I mean many of you would disagree with that.
Yes.
The other point I'll emphasize Brian is again the obvious but that's just frequency.
So on the clarity side we feel pretty good about the trends.
Terrific.
And then the other question Brian can you just tell a little bit of obviously excluding comps because you've talked about that just loss trend what's going on with loss trend in commercial and then maybe even in personal lines personal auto? Yes on the commercial side there's really been no dramatic change.
I would say on the encouraging side we continue to feel pretty good about what we see out of the tort environment and how that's been progressing.
And otherwise the trends are pretty consistent with what we've been seeing.
Greg why don't you -- on the personal lines side Greg Toczydlowski.
Sure.
Yes Brian.
Similar story on the Personal Insurance side.
Good news on the frequency side pretty much contained our loss cost trend.
We see a little bit of pressure on the severity side.
And Brian's comment really talked about that this quarter in terms of the non-cat weather driving that.
So we don't believe that's an ongoing trend.
We believe that's some fluctuations so we'll continue looking at the business more over a longer term.
Yes.
One place where we see a little difference between the commercial and the personal book quite frankly is a little bit on the frequency of the auto side.
On commercial auto we are seeing a little pickup in frequency and that we think is pretty directly related to a pickup in economic opportunity for our insured base.
And we're not seeing it on the personal lines side because we don't think there's pickup in the miles driven on the personal side.
So a little bit of a difference there but small movement.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Just sort of a quick one on workers' comp.
I'm sorry to keep hitting this but -- after the changes you made in the first quarter to that book can you talk about the difference between premium trend and loss trend? And especially given that you've seen that book increased a lot or at least written premiums has increased a lot in the second quarter.
And I just have one follow-up.
We're going to resist the temptation to make a declaration and try and compare written rate to earned loss trend.
We spent some time yesterday trying to understand that issue with real clarity.
And candidly you make so many assumptions about will written trend continue and will -- I'm sorry will written rate trend continue? And what will happen to earned loss trend that we're just going to avoid any predictions about whether written trend is running higher than earned loss trend.
And I think the numbers at least for the moment speak for themselves.
I think what we're comfortable saying and correct me because I'm -- if you think I'm wrong is not we're not losing ground.
I think that's the important comment.
We don't believe -- at least at the moment.
That can change next week.
That can change next month either way.
But we feel pretty good that we're not losing ground.
And that's I think about as far as we want to go in an outlook kind of statement about workers' comp.
Okay that's very fair.
One question on Commercial Accounts I guess I imagine a lot of the uptick there is also comp.
But you're seeing pricing or you're taking pricing higher competitively on those accounts or just in the business you're writing.
What's happening? Is it that others are not following? Or is it that people are taking their rates higher? Any notion on what's causing both a raise in rate and also the opportunity to hold business? And I see you retention but also pickup new business.
Yes I think it's -- so there's a lot there in your question.
We've talked a lot about what we do as a franchise.
And we think we've got some real market-leading distinct competitive advantages in those businesses that that customers' value and enable us to keep our business and keep it at appropriate rates of return.
I'm not sure where the broader market is when -- because I sense a little bit implied in your comment was we're doing distinctly better than the marketplace.
I would hope we are.
But I don't know exactly what those numbers are.
And just to add to that -- this is Bill Cunningham.
I think the other thing you have to keep in mind is we don't approach every account the same.
This is not a one-size-fits-all in terms of how we approach each account.
We try to be as thoughtful as we can in terms of rate need down to the risk based under the risk characteristics that we're seeing.
We manage things differently office-by-office based on what we're seeing.
Line approach may vary by state.
So it's thoughtful as weighted as we can be.
I think it's having a big difference in terms of [indiscernible].
I think one of the things that we take for granted that we tend not to speak about in these comments is the risk control approach that we take to workers' comp.
It's not an open-to-buy book.
It's not that we underwrite any comer that happens to walk into an agent's office.
There's an active and engaged risk control process a substantial engineering group that for virtually every new account in Commercial Accounts -- again if I'm overstating correct me.
But virtually every new account in Commercial Accounts we've got our own engineers out in the field actually observing the risk control practices and procedures of the accounts that we underwrite.
And I would speculate and it is just speculation that what we're ending up with is a better class of workers’ compensation business from a loss management perspective than carriers who don't bring that level of expertise to the market.
And there's an interesting phenomenon to talk about about what happens to those classes of business and their unemployment statistics and their way of dealing with injuries that's different from the average marketplace.
I do think that our risk control organization adds real value here and ends up creating a block of business a book of business that's just different from lots of other people who write more generally.
Not everyone as there are other people who bring that level of expertise also.
But I think relative to those who don't we end up with a very different managed book of business from a loss perspective.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Newsome from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> I believe from the presentation we saw at the Analyst Day that you folks have been having a pretty heavy push into the Midwest in your personalized business.
And I'd like to know given what's happened in the last quarter and we sought that -- a broader sort of secondary question should we in general think of because of the geographic changes in your book having a larger cat load overall in your personalized business? A couple of questions there and I first I'm not sure that there've been any geographic changes in particular in our book with respect to your last question.
I'm going to let Greg speak to the distribution.
But to the extent that one concludes that the tornado peril is more prevalent than it was previously it's a challenge to deal with that from a risk selection and underwriting point of view.
It's difficult for us to determine the difference between Charlotte and Atlanta and Dallas and Houston and Joplin and frankly Springfield Massachusetts in this last quarter.
So as we think about how do we manage this more effectively it really does come down to rate and terms and conditions a lot more than it comes down to geographic selection relative to trying to manage the peril differently.
It's one thing to manage coastal exposure.
We know where the coast is.
It's another to try and manage broad-based tornado exposure because it is just so random it is so random but so intense at the point of storm.
So it's a real tough one to deal with from the selection standpoint.
So Paul let me -- this is Brian.
Let me take a shot at I think addressing the broad question you're asking which is is our exposure going up here? Is our estimate of cat activity going up? Then I'm going to throw it to Greg on the specific on the geography.
I think it's fair to say for every underwriter in this industry while looking at RMS 11 and looking at the wind hail activity for the last couple of years actually but certainly this year in particular we're looking at higher rather than lower.
But we're still in the middle of evaluating that whole process.
But it's not fundamentally driven by our geographic shift.
It's driven by the obvious concerns with the changes in the weather patterns and how we impact that -- I mean integrate that.
So Greg if can you talk about geography? It moved a little.
Sure yes.
We've -- I think we've talked in the past about our agency expansion strategy.
And we have had a disproportionate amount of new agents coming in the Midwest and West just because of our heavy penetration in the Northeast.
So I think that's some of the data that we have shared with you.
We've been trying to respond to a lot of the rhetoric in the marketplace.
Is this a new normal for weather? And we just got to go back a couple of years in 2006 2007 when there was relatively no catastrophes in the marketplace over those 24 months.
And we certainly -- the marketplace wasn't saying that's a new trend at that time also.
So we're certainly not in the business of guessing what the weather is going to be in the future.
We're being very disciplined and focused around our pricing in terms of [indiscernible] and I feel very comfortable around our footprint.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith from Evercore Partners.
Two questions the first one was on workers’ compensation.
I was curious whether some of the adverse prior quarter reserve development came from workers’ compensation? Just in looking at the overall line there was no adverse development for workers' comp this quarter.
Prior year.
Yes prior year than this.
In the prior and prior quarter.
Okay great.
The second question is...
No no no.
That's the prior year.
Yes yes.
No no no.
Let me just -- because everything before January 1 of this year in any given quarter we're doing full analysis of what our reserve needs are.
There's always going to be some prior years we're going to up a little bit some will go down a little bit.
But net-net there was no prior year development of any magnitude for workers' comp.
But Brian did say in his comments because again your question I thought was quarter-to-quarter.
Yes.
Some of the re-estimation of the...
Across the year yes.
Some of it was due to the winter storms and to a lesser extent workers' comp.
What underlies that is a projected increase in the current year loss ratio for comps driven by this movement coming back to trend line faster than we had anticipated.
So there was the impact in the second quarter.
These by the way relative to a company of our size are relatively small numbers.
But what you -- what did was we upped the loss ratio of some a little bit.
For the current year right.
For the current year.
And we obviously had a catch-up in the second quarter relative to the first quarter re-estimation.
Mike did I answer it [ph] right? Okay.
Fair enough understood.
The second question is on Homeowners.
You are taking up rates 9%.
Just curious as to what reception you're getting from the regulators as well as your customers on the rate increases.
Yes.
This is Greg again.
We're as you see we've had 9% for 2 consecutive quarters.
And currently we live in a regulatory environment and so we need to get those approved either file a news [ph] or prior to approval.
And we've got very good relationships with the regulators and our distributors.
And there are always cost-based reasons around why we get the rate level and we've been successful in implementing those.
So we obviously are seeing the results around that particular product line in this quarter and believe they're warranted.
And we'll continue to watch that and be prudent with the rate going forward.
Sure.
I was just curious as to why you're not seeing sort of a drop-off in the retention ratios in Homeowners because of rate increases? Would that be because most competitors are taking rates also by some of the levels? Yes.
We clearly are operating as a function of the market and we're not the only one feeling these catastrophe losses over the last 2 years.
So there clearly is an increase in rate environment on the property side.
We watch the marketplace quite a bit in terms of the amount of filings that come through increases the decreases and the simple ratio.
And it's close to a double-digit ratio right now what the marketplace is doing in that particular line.
So clearly we're not the only one taking some rate in that particular product.
Our next question is from the line of Adam Klauber with William Blair.
You mentioned exposure growth in the Business Insurance is moving positive.
How big of an impact are payrolls on exposures increasing? In comps it's the whole game.
So it's a -- but the biggest driver in our overall results would be GL which is fundamentally driven by sales and receipts business receipts.
That's the biggest driver.
But you can look at our book and you can look at the relationship of comp.
And so payrolls have been moving up and are certainly a piece of that.
Projected payrolls.
Yes.
Exposure is a projected number that our insureds provide us at renewal.
Yes.
And then obviously it gets trued out at audit premium time down the road in the middle market.
And so what we're seeing is it's actually there are 2 manifestations of a better environment.
First is that insureds are perceiving the environment better meaning they're anticipating some payroll growth.
And then what we're actually seeing in the audit premium numbers in the aggregate.
I don't know how the audit premium relates down narrowly to workers comp.
But what we're seeing in the audit premium is that in fact the activity that our insureds economic activity ratable activity that they're experiencing over the policy period is turning out now to be more than they had originally anticipated.
So there's 2 elements to it.
They're both worth thinking about.
Great that's helpful.
And also in Business Insurance very positive that you're getting rate on the renewal book of business.
Is it a several year gradual process to get rates where you want? Actually it's a very good question and I'll ask Bill to chime in as well.
We -- the history on this is that we wrestled for a long time as to how to respond to the precipitous decline in investment rates which obviously form an important part of the profitability of our business.
And when investment rates fell in connection with the prices it obviously impacted the profitability prospectively of the business that we were writing.
The notion that we would have a knee-jerk reaction and attempt to increase prices precipitously dramatically never really occurred to us.
We always have a mindset about making sure our agents are comfortable with understanding what we're doing and why.
And that our insureds understand what we're doing and why.
And importantly we weren't smart enough to know when the investment market would return to more normal levels.
And as I commented last quarter we're beginning to contemplate the notion that the investment environment that we're in may indeed be longer rather than shorter.
That obviously back in the third quarter I think of last year set us on a path of trying to get rate on a measured basis not -- being mindful of not disrupting agents' business and certainly not disrupting insureds business.
But to do so thoughtfully.
If you've got a $100 000 account and you got a 2% rate increase it's $102 000 premium.
And hopefully we bring value enough to both the agent and the insured that that's a transaction that we can be delivered to the insured without great concern.
So far so good.
But it is so far.
And I would answer your question just saying yes we think about this as a multiyear effort.
It's not -- our strategy in the pricing environment remains intact driven to a great extent by the declining -- by the reduction in investment rates available and just thinking about the aggregate returns in our business.
Now having said that we balance that out against the notion that cost of equity has dropped dramatically over the last 3 or 4 years for most good companies anyway.
We put up a slide in the Investor Day that showed our historical cost of equity.
And then we got into an interesting question of what happens to the long-term cost of equity? Does it stay down at the levels that they're at that it's at? And therefore what levels of returns are going to be available in the marketplace before our competitors step in? And so those are all of the variables that we're wrestling with.
The conclusion of all of that though is to move for rate gains on a measured basis thoughtfully not disruptively.
Any of those concerns are dealt with by a measured pace of getting rate gains.
Our next question is from the line of Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
On the charts that you showed about renewal rate change I'm just -- given the fact there was unfavorable development on 1Q 11 does that change your prior opinions on renewal change? Or is that an absolute number or based on loss cost trends? The renewal rate change is a pure rate number.
And I'm looking over at Bill and Fred Donner a pure rate number calculated at the time of renewal.
And so it's independent of loss cost trend.
If we had a policy that was $100 000 and it's renewing with exactly the same exposure and exactly the same terms and conditions and we do our best to analyze them at this level and it's renewing at the $102 000 that's a 2% rate gain.
And so it's calculated it's expiring premium relative to renewal premium.
And it's independent of any loss trend analysis or re-estimation of loss rates.
Okay then.
Can you comment in general on where you see your current growth relative to the rate of loss growth? Yes I commented on that before.
We're going to resist the temptation to make predictions or estimations about whether the rate gains that we're getting once they are earned will then offset the loss trend that we are experiencing at that point in time.
What we're pretty comfortable saying at the moment is that we're not losing ground.
We're not losing ground.
There is a comment as there always is in the Outlook section of the 10-Q that we filed earlier today that speaks to what we expect underwriting margins to be.
Now remember that's earned.
What's in the 10-Q is purely earned.
So it has nothing to do obviously has something to do.
But it's not a direct function of written rate gains right now.
But there is a comment in the Q about what we anticipate underwriting margins to be.
But the rate change moves each quarter.
The loss trend moves each quarter.
And so any predictions that we make are going to force us to constantly go back and revisit whether we were right or wrong.
And we're going to just resist the temptation.
In my comments I said that if we look at underlying Business Insurance margins on a year-to-date basis they are about where we expected.
There's always little movements.
But we're talking real little movements here.
So rate might be a little bit better than we expected.
Loss trend might be slightly worse.
But it's netting out to about where we thought.
And are there any other unusual items besides the catastrophes in the auto combined ratio number? Or it was somewhat higher this quarter? It was really all weather-related either catastrophe or non-catastrophe had a weather impact on it.
Partly just to reinforce that it's -- I do want to say it's unusual.
But most people don't think about the fact that a hailstorm that doesn't qualify as a cat could in fact generate auto losses.
So a small hailstorm can in fact produce non-cat weather Auto losses.
And we've had experiences in this quarter of non-cat weather producing auto losses.
And can you reiterate your threshold on what's the -- where weather then becomes a cat? I don't believe we...
Yes we've never...
We've never -- I don't believe that we've disclosed that.
Our next question is from the line of Larry Greenberg from Langen McAlenney.
I'm just wondering if you might be able to talk qualitatively about Business Insurance reserve development which is positive but down from prior-period levels.
And I know the environmental was a portion of that.
But I guess more specifically I'm wondering if workers' comp might be playing a pretty significant role in that given that the trend line was favorable for a while.
Now you're saying that it's -- loss trend is moving up a bit more rapidly.
Is that a meaningful piece of the lower favorable development? And maybe anything else you might be able to add on that front.
First of all I'd go back to what we were saying earlier.
We look at our reserves in a very full-some way each quarter.
And we evaluate movements and the net result of it is what you see this quarter.
I wouldn't read too much into it in relation to their level this quarter versus prior quarters.
As it relates specifically to things like workers' comp or general liability or the other components that make it up if you go back and read through our quarterly 10-Qs which I'm not urging you to do.
But if you did it you would see that each quarter there are different elements contributing to the net favorable development.
So it's not like you look at workers' comp this quarter versus last quarter versus the fourth quarter versus the first quarter this year.
You're going to see any kind of pattern that say one particular line has been favorable favorable favorable and suddenly it's not.
It's a process that we go through that just looks at what's developing in the data.
And we make adjustments when the data suggests we should be making the adjustments.
Our next question is from the line of Greg Locraft from Morgan Stanley.
[Technical Difficulty] [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Mark Dwelle from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> A lot of my questions have already been asked and answered.
But the one topic I wanted to touch on briefly in both the rate and the volume environment on commercial are you seeing any big disparity between relatively large accounts mid-sized accounts and small accounts? We've heard a lot of commentary from brokers that there's that type of a divergence.
Yes and the answer is yes but nothing new in that regard.
These are comments you can go back over the last several years and you'll see us saying the same thing.
The smaller account business has been less subject to rate volatility than the larger account business and the middle market business falls right in between.
What I always try to reinforce to people because I do think that there's any number of folks who kind of misperceive us what it is we do we are not broadly speaking a large account casualty writer in particular.
We are a small and middle market company that comprises a substantial percentage of our Business Insurance business to the extent we do business with large accounts it really falls into 2 areas.
One is National Property where as a result of our reinsurance programs our actual net exposure is not what one would think of relative to kind of large accounts.
And then we do fee-for-service business in our National Accounts business where we're handling claims workers' comp claims for a fee.
And the nature of the risk -- it's not guaranteed costs.
It's loss-sensitive business has a very different characteristic.
But most certainly when you look at our middle market business which is larger obviously that our small commercial business you do we see a more price competitive environment and as we watch broadly speaking into the large account arena which again we don't participate in a dramatic way in a meaningful way it is indeed more competitive at that end as well.
LLC</strong> So that's probably the best explanation as to why the National Accounts' premiums would be I'll say the weakest amongst those 3 whereas the Commercial Accounts segment would really be the strongest and amongst those 3.
Yes but part of it but be careful to read into that because as you look at the loss response of -- this is Bill Cunningham that's also a function of a losses under management and largely workers’ compensation.
So over the course of the last year as frequency has dropped and the overall losses have dropped as we look at those renewals prospectively that has an impact on the premium we charge and the fee that we charge.
I wouldn't leap into the conclusion because it's a complicated answer that our National Accounts business to the extent it shows up as premiums a lot of its guaranteed costs that's showing up as premiums.
And it's not subject to the -- what's the premium basis.
Bill is expressing that as the loss content is projected to go down so do our premiums.
They go right along with it.
But by definition the profit margin on that business may not go down in the same way.
So the nature of our National Accounts business is such that it wouldn't make a lot of sense.
It's not guaranteed costs and it would be -- it's just the -- you get the incorrect assumptions.
So look at our National Accounts business at the changes and perceive that it's a function of the competitive environment.
There are carriers that have real expertise in dealing with large accounts.
And we're just not one of them.
And I'm speaking on a guaranteed cost basis.
It's just not what we do.
And our last question is from the line of the Ian Gutterman with Adage Capital.
I'll be brief.
I just had one quick question on Commercial Accounts.
I'm trying to understand but it seems there's some can contrasting trends there.
I was hoping to get some insights.
The retention pressures seem greatest in that line.
And I'm guessing maybe part of that was through the rate increases and at the same time your new business is probably one of the better lines there.
And the premium growth was obviously very strong up double digits.
So can you help me understand why retention will be getting worse at the same time new business and overall premiums will be getting better? I -- your statement is factually correct but the interpretation is a little off Ian.
We -- the fact is retention in the second quarter of 2011 was 84%.
From a historical perspective that's extraordinarily strong.
We were coming off levels of 86% and 87% in the second and third quarters of last year which is candidly one of the factors that led us to conclude that there might be opportunities to gain rate while still improving the overall quality and profitability of the business that we do.
So you're right it's dropped from 87% or 86% in the second quarter of this year to 84%.
But that's still at levels that are solid strong great terrific whatever you want -- which one to put on it.
And so at the moment while it's dropped the tiniest bit we don't perceive it at the moment unless you see it differently than I do that we've taken a meaningful dip in retention relative to what long-term profits -- relative to the way where we've managed the business to produce returns.
On the growth side of the question there's a number of things playing through there.
First in addition to having continued strong retention you've got the impact of exposure being positive on renewals.
But you've also got the audit additional premium coming through those numbers as well.
Yes.
And then their rates.
So you've got rate gain exposure gain at renewal positive audit premiums and those are the factors playing through this that are impacting the growth.
And the positive audit premium compared to negative audit premium last year.
So that's going to have an impact on that percentage growth.
Your question is still a thoughtful and substantive one.
We will always watch this as we go down this path slowly thoughtfully.
Hopefully our concept is that we can execute this without trading off substantial amounts of retention.
If in fact we overshoot and retention drops in a precipitous rate we'll obviously re-evaluate our view about how we're approaching pricing.
But the question's right.
I think you just have to put it into a historical perspective to look at it and say still on track.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back to you Ms.
Nawi.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you for your -- all for joining us today.
As usual both myself and Andrew Hersom will be available to take any additional questions.
Thank you and have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and we ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Wednesday October 19 2011.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Sussie.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our third quarter results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investor section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation and then we will open it for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
You of course all know that this was another quarter marked by significant weather.
In that context our business is strong enough to have produced $332 million in operating income and an operating return on equity of 5.9%.
For the full year we're at $781 million of operating income and an operating return on equity of 4.5%.
While this year has certainly placed considerable demands on our claim department we're very pleased that our claim teams were prepared and positioned to customers with first-rate speed.
I also couldn't be more pleased with our catastrophe claim management strategy upon which we embarked in 2005.
Our ability to respond to claimants with almost entirely internal staffs sets us apart from many other insurance companies and allows us to process claims more effectively and efficiently as well as with a higher level of customer satisfaction.
Turning to our operations our strategy is quite focused.
We are seeking improved pricing as well as improved terms and conditions on the insurance products we sell.
We are doing so not only because interest rates may remain low for some time but also given the possibility that the more active weather patterns such as we have experienced over the last few years may continue.
And the progress we are making pursuing the strategy is already evident in our Business Insurance segment.
In the quarter we achieved pricing gains across all product lines led by workers compensation and property.
The overall pure renewal rate gain in the quarter for Business Insurance excluding National Accounts was just over 3% and just over 4% for the month of September demonstrating our success in driving rate improvement.
And while we are prepared to trade volume for improve margins and profitability retention remains at strong levels and forms a basis for our optimism that we can continue to improve pricing in our Business Insurance segment.
In that regard we are particularly pleased with our results in our middle market businesses and Brian will have more to say about that later.
We also note that exposure in our Business Insurance segment remains positive and continues to improve.
In addition audit premiums have also turned meaningfully positive.
The combination of higher exposure in auto premiums as well as improved rate are important factors which allowed us to generate a significant 7% growth in net written premiums in Business Insurance this quarter.
While our strategy is the same in Personal Insurance our renewal premium change for property has been in the 8% to 9% range for some time and our renewal premium change for auto has been in the 3% to 4% range.
And the regulatory environment is such that it will take some time before our more recent actions will show in our results.
With respect to capital management we repurchased $375 million of stock in the quarter and our guidance with respect to targeted fourth quarter repurchases is considerably higher.
Jay Benet will share that with you during his comments.
Finally we're also pleased that Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded our financial strength ratings to AA although we are not reliant on the commercial paper market to fund our operations our short-term ratings are now A1/P1.
In summary the weather was again challenging but we remain bullish on our ability to deliver rate improvements and superior returns over time.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
There are a few things I'd like to discuss with you this morning so let me start with the weather.
Third quarter catastrophe losses which were driven by Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee with $394 million after-tax much higher than what we were consider "normal" and more than 5x our cap losses in last year's third quarter.
Losses related to Hurricane Irene were $253 million after-tax.
It represented only 1% of shareholders' equity.
The losses from Tropical Storm Lee was $74 million after tax.
The cats were not the only weather story in the quarter.
As Brian will discuss later both Business Insurance and Personal Insurance experienced significantly higher levels of non-cat weather-related losses that when combined with the expected impact of earned pricing and loss cost trends drove a 4.5 point quarter-over-quarter increase in our consolidated GAAP combined ratio ex-cats and prior-year development.
Turning to reserves third quarter's total net favorable prior-year reserve development was $124 million after tax down a bit from $147 million after tax in the prior-year quarter.
Once again all 3 of our business segments experienced net favorable prior-year reserve development as a result of better than expected loss experience.
Within Business Insurance reserve development included a $114 million after-tax increase to our asbestos reserves.
While the underlying asbestos environment is essentially unchanged recent payment trends have been moderately higher than we had previously anticipated.
I'd also point out that this year's asbestos reserve increase was actually less than last year's increase on a gross basis.
You will recall that last year the asbestos reserve increase was net of a reduction in the uncollectible reinsurance reserve of $70 million or $45 million after tax that resulted from a favorable ruling related to a reinsurance dispute.
Page 7 of the webcast summarizes our holdings of sovereign debt securities issued by Eurozone countries that are considered troubled: Spain Ireland Italy Greece and Portugal amounting to only $8 million as of the end of the quarter.
The schedule also shows our holdings of all securities issued by banks insurance companies finance and leasing companies and brokers and asset managers in these troubled countries consisting of debt and nonredeemable preferred stock.
These holdings amounted to only $16 million as of the end of the quarter.
Lastly the schedule shows our holdings of securities issued by other Eurozone financial institutions where the securities are not guaranteed by the sovereign country.
In total all of these Eurozone holdings represent only a tiny fraction of our $73.7 billion investment portfolio.
While our analysis of the RMS version 11 hurricane model update remains a work in process we do have some preliminary observations we would like to share with you this morning all of course subject to the completion of our works.
Based upon our evaluation of RMS 11 and other hurricane models that we use in combination with our own expensive data we currently believe that we will be increasing our expected hurricane average annual loss or AAL as well as our expected hurricane probable maximum loss or PML.
This is one of the reasons that our strategy is focused on pricing and terms and conditions.
Notwithstanding these expected increases on our hurricane AAL and PML we currently expect our total catastrophe exposure adjusted for RMS 11 will remain within our targeted equity impact range as contemplated by our existing capital structure and that as a result we are not expecting to increase our target capital levels significantly reduce our exposures or purchase additional reinsurance as a result of RMS 11.
I'll remind you this analysis is still a work in progress so these observations are preliminary.
Lastly let me mention a few key numbers.
Operating cash flow was very strong this quarter at $917 million despite the large spike in claim costs due to weather.
We ended the quarter with holding company liquidity in U.S.
dollars that are in the United States and therefore not subject to tax on repatriation of $2.4 billion.
Net unrealized investment gains increased to $4 billion pre-tax or $2.6 billion after tax and book value per share rose to $60.98 at the end of the quarter a 4% increase since the beginning of the year.
And consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy we continue to return excess capital to our shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased $375 million of common stock and paid $173 million in dividends bringing year-to-date common stock repurchases to $1.7 billion and year-to-date dividends of $503 million.
Based upon our current liquidity position and our expectations for fourth quarter operating income which as always does not include any provision for reserve development and subject to other needs that may arise such as contribution to our qualified pension plan which we currently do not expect to have to make.
We are targeting fourth quarter common stock repurchases at approximately $1 billion.
And with that let me turn the mic over to Brian.
Thanks Jay.
As we just mentioned our third quarter earnings were meaningfully impacted by the catastrophic weather events listed on Slide 4 of the webcast as well as an above-average amount of non-catastrophic weather.
Excluding the impact of weather and prior year development we continue to see margins that were essentially in line with our expectations.
The other important part of our story this quarter was the strong increases in pricing that we continued to achieve broadly across our businesses.
This is especially true in Business Insurance where net written premiums were up 7% year-over-year driven by double-digit increases in our Commercial Accounts and industry-focused businesses.
The overall increase in net written premiums included renewal premium change of 5% of which pure rate accounted for over 3%.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of positive rate increases in Business Insurance and in fact these are the largest rate gain since the Travelers-St.
Paul merger in 2004.
In addition we are achieving the rate gains broadly with increases in all product lines for the second consecutive quarter.
The workers compensation line had the highest level of rate increase and the property lines showed the most significant improvement over last quarter.
As you can see on Slide 14 the pace of rate increases both in Commercial Accounts and in the segment as a whole continued to accelerate as we ended the third quarter with segment rate at 4% and Commercial Accounts at 6% for the month of September.
Importantly we believe that these written rate levels exceed our current view of lost trend.
I know this is only one month but after speaking to you about margin compression for the last several years we believe this is significant.
And based on our preliminary view we believe we are making further progress in October.
In addition to the rate gains our top line benefited from our customers purchasing more insurance.
Exposure was up about 2% this quarter and audit premiums were up meaningfully both year-over-year and in sequential quarters.
Retention remains solid while new business is down slightly from the same period last year.
Along with our renewal pricing strategy we are also achieving better pricing on our new business.
And although this may have an impact on new business volume going forward we are comfortable with that trade-off.
Turning to third quarter operating earnings.
In addition to the significantly higher catastrophe losses and less favorable prior-year development versus the third quarter of 2010 results have been negatively impacted by some non-recurring items primarily the non-catastrophe weather largely in the property lines.
Last quarter we provided you with an update on our workers compensation loss trends specifically noting a modest uptick in frequency.
Through this quarter overall loss trend has remained stable and frequency is performing as we expected.
As always we continue to manage this line closely on a state-by-state basis.
So we continue to feel good about the underlying performance of this business and are extremely pleased with the rate gains that we've achieved and in particular the pricing momentum that occurred in the latter part of the quarter.
In the Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment operating income of $211 million was strong and consistent with strong operating income in the prior-year quarter.
The current quarter's underwriting gain was up modestly due to favorable prior-year development.
The 3.2 points of deterioration in the adjusted combined ratio is due to the impact of lower levels of earned premium and unusually low level of what we define as large losses in the prior-year quarter and an increase in infrastructure investment to support growth in the International business.
For the first time since the first quarter of 2009 our management liability business and Bond &amp; Financial Products experienced growth on a production basis.
And excluding the impact of a personal lines distribution arrangement in Ireland that we terminated last year the International business also grew on a production basis for the first time since the first quarter of 2010.
In both cases this is the continuation of a positive trend going back several quarters and we believe is the result of IT investments and other strategic efforts.
Surety volume continues to be down reflecting sluggishness in construction spending and underwriting selection.
Moving to Personal Insurance extraordinary weather events both catastrophic and non-catastrophic continue to adversely impact our financials and drove an operating loss for the quarter.
Net favorable prior-year development for the segment was somewhat less than the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding cats and prior-year development the Personal Insurance combined ratio increased approximately 3 points quarter-over-quarter in both Homeowners as well as Auto.
The majority of this increase was driven by adverse non-cat weather.
Certainly we're not going to try and predict the weather but by incorporating the last 2 years of actual experience into our long-term averages our expectation of weather losses in this business has increased.
In response we will be driving for additional rate increases as well as adjusting terms and conditions and looking for higher deductibles.
Turning to the production results both lines of business posted year-over-year growth in policies in force this quarter while net written premiums were up 3% in Agency Homeowner and down slightly for Agency Auto.
Renewal premium change and retention were strong in both Auto and Home while new business volume was down from the same period last year.
We expect new business volumes may decline modestly going forward as we continue a disciplined execution on our pricing strategy.
As in Business Insurance this is a trade-off that we are comfortable making.
Now before we go to Q&amp;A I'll turn it back to Jay Fishman for a comment.
Thank you Brian.
I just want to take 15 seconds to acknowledge an important anniversary our much appreciated and much loved partner Bill Heyman is celebrating his 20th anniversary with the company.
And consistent with Travelers' expense-minded culture I'm handing him his inexpensive and cheap Lucite plaque.
No watches here but I can't think of a better place to acknowledge 20 years Bill than in front of the people for whom you've been working all this time and doing such a terrific job.
Congratulations.
I have no idea.
Thank you.
With that operator we're going to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question coming from the line of Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on workers comp.
Obviously you saw some -- a lot of premium growth in the quarter that's been a trend this year.
Can you talk a little bit about pricing versus loss trend there? And kind of what is the geographic breakdown of that business and any problem states or states where you're seeing loss trend increase in what you're doing there? Mike this is Brian.
I'll take a shot at some high level comments and then throw it to Bill Cunningham and I'll probably preface all of this with were not going to get to granularity into talking about a specific state or market.
As we said in the comments we feel comp pricing has been moving.
It started moving before the other lines of business.
And we continue to see some decent increases there.
So we feel good about where we are pricing versus loss trend broadly in that business.
We spent a good bit of time on last quarter's call talking about what was in the end of the day a pretty little movement in frequency but we wanted to break it out.
So the loss trend continues to move as we discussed then.
Which importantly just to interrupt if you remember the conversation last quarter it was that we were moving back to the previously anticipated trend line just a little bit faster than we had expected.
So that trend line remains intact So there's no subsequent issue or problem or change with respect to the workers comp loss relative to our conversation last quarter.
So important when you look at just premium change though and this is true of comp and all of the commercial businesses what's really driving it is 3 things: The rate component and really in this order: Rate audit premium and exposure growth.
And so it's not like we're adding a ton of market share here.
We're looking at moving pricing and getting better pricing for the risks we're taking.
The other thing I'll say and then throw it to Bill is not only is it a state-by-state but it's business-by-business.
So we have a kind of a different view of small comp versus middle market comp versus large comp.
We're always trying to balance all of those.
And just a few things to add.
First and I don't know if mentioned payrolls payrolls are up.
Yes which is what's driving the exposure in the Auto premium.
Right and I guess again not getting into specific geographies for competitive reasons what I will tell you is that there are wide ranges of rate change that we're gaining and it depends on our view of a given state.
So the overall rate gain for the line continues to move in more dramatically in the states where we need it.
And we see a loss trend dynamic.
As we said last quarter we reflected in our pricing in our reserving that uptick.
And as we look at loss trend and rate gain we talk about being in front of loss trend projections comp based on our pricing today.
And I think we were there sooner on that line and the gap between rate and lost from that line is actually wider than the all lines average.
And just to clarify my comments to make sure we don't confuse anybody.
In the second quarter we increased -- lost pick for workers comp overall to reflect that acceleration into the trend line.
That loss estimate is the same one we used for the third quarter mix adjusted and everything else.
But we didn't go back.
It currently is at the level that we  reestablished it in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the Travelers Select I mean obviously commercial line is up a lot.
I mean is that a reflection of pushing your systems into larger policy sizes whether it's Select or Select Express? I was just curious to see a big lift in commercial line and I imagine a lot of that is comp.
But the Select was flat.
Is that a result of maybe to Brian's comment that pricing is up higher maybe than others? I apologize Mike.
I'm not getting the question of that was that I know of.
Research Division</strong> Well it's just that Select as a platform and new business was flat or premiums were flat whereas commercial lines were higher.
Yes okay.
The basic dynamic that's going on there as we've talked about in Select Select Express is the smaller end.
What we call Plus is the larger end.
The Plus market the larger account market is in aggregate down for us and one that we're pushing harder in from a pricing perspective.
So that's what would be fundamentally driving that.
The returns if one breaks Select in 2 it's 2 pieces Select Express the lower end Select Plus the upper end.
The returns in the Select Plus business have not been at levels that we feel comfortable just sitting on.
And that's partially because we're competing in that segment with smaller more regional companies who view the upper end of Select as their middle market.
So it tends to be a segment of the business that attracts a fair amount of competition.
The pricing dynamics there had been a little more difficult relative to a lower end more difficult.
And so we set our standards and whatever happens to the volume happens.
And if we shrink we shrink; and if we're flat we're flat it's okay as long as the business that we're pricing is being priced at a level that we're prepared to take on and live with.
Is that fair? Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Our next question coming from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> My first question is more broad.
It has to do with the P&amp;C cycle.
Jay Fishman are you calling for a broad cycle turn here? I mean you're talking about price increases in Business Insurance in particular now in excess of loss cost and positive territory for 3 quarters in a row.
Is that what you're calling for here? No sir.
In fact if you go through the comments here today you won't actually hear the words market or market cycle in anybody's commentary.
We decided a year ago -- as I've said and you've heard us speak about this in other meetings and in our investor days.
We're much more skeptical that the amplitude of the cyclicality that many of us grew up in in this business remains.
For a whole host of substances systemic reasons we just don't think it exists in the same way anymore.
And we made the decision a year ago if you recall that regardless of whether a red light went on somewhere that was going to declare a cycle turn that we were going to attempt to take our destiny in our own hands and move our own pricing.
And whatever happened would happen.
We were very encouraged as following the second quarter last year the results were moving in very much the right direction.
We were never nearly as negative as the surveys would've suggested.
We shared that data with you.
But we made progress.
And went from broadly speaking negative to positive.
Following the weather this year we decided after the second quarter to further accelerate our own efforts.
And so I'm not viewing what anybody else is doing.
I'm not declaring any change or turn absolutely not.
I'm just telling you what we're doing.
This is active not passive.
We're not reacting to the marketplace.
We're just deciding for ourselves what we're going to do in the way we're going to price the product.
And we'll see what happens.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then for Jay Benet 2 other ones.
First looking in the 10-Q in terms of the pace of the buyback for 2012 it says Travelers does not expect that we'll continue to repurchase shares in excess of its operating income in 2012.
So does that mean it could potentially be less than the operating income that's generated next year? And second why the shift especially given $1 billion share buyback pace potentially in 4Q? As you've heard us say before we've been generating excess capital we've been returning the capital to our shareholders.
We had built up excess capital.
We've been operating as I mentioned during the Barclays conference in ways to free up capital on the balance sheet either through reinsurance collections or changes in reserves that have taken place over time or looking at other things.
So I mean eventually you get to the point where you return the excess capital to your shareholders and then what you're doing through your operating earnings is creating more capital evaluating how much of that capital that you're creating through earnings you need to run the business and then from that returning the excess if you will to your shareholders either through dividends or through buyback.
So we think we're getting close to that inflection point where the excess is actually being or will have been returned and we'll be dealing with the creation of new excess through the earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jay last one.
The impact of DAC accounting changes in 2012 any potential write-down for Travelers? Actually I think if you look at the new rules closely you'll see that the new rules really paralleled what we've been doing so there's not going to be any impact from those new rules for us.
Research Division</strong> So big impact for the life companies but not for PNC or Travelers.
Certainly not for us.
I mean our DAC policy has been to DAC commissions and premium taxes essentially and nothing else.
So that coincides with the rules.
Our next question coming from the line of Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> In responding to Jay's question you said that by the year ago you decided to take destiny into your own hands and you've seeing favorable results.
You're talking about 3 consecutive quarters here of improving renewal rate trend.
But also over that same period of time I'm seeing on running margins deteriorate and it's accelerated.
Excluding cats and reserve development this insurance ratios were up 4 quarters go 100 basis points 200 basis points 300 basis points and then this quarter it's up year-over-year 700 basis points.
I'm seeing a disconnect there.
I realize one is earned premium and one is written premium.
But it's been going on for a little while here.
Can you sort of walk me through what's going on here? Sure.
Well first your first point is exactly correct.
There's an enormous difference between earned and written.
And the rate gains reflect themselves in written premiums and obviously will be earned respectively.
The comment in the press release that we issued this morning was important relative to in Brian's comments as well.
The fact that we were now at a point where if in fact these written rate gains continue that they exceed our current view of loss trend.
So that's the first written versus earned.
Research Division</strong> Well let me just say a year ago you said rates were flat and now we have 700 basis points of deterioration from stuff you wrote a year ago.
Is that a wrong way to...
The numbers are public.
My recollection is that overall rate in the second quarter of last year was still actually modestly negative.
Loss trend obviously was positive and we shared with all of you you included that we were anticipating margin compression.
We were very clear very transparent at the end of last year and into this year that we were anticipating projecting and shared with you in fact even we were giving guidance the magnitude of the margin compression that we were expecting.
And that was driven by the fact that underlying loss trend was running at a higher rate than the -- and at that point the negative rate that we were achieving.
It wasn't substantially negative but negative is nonetheless negative.
And we made progress in moving that price moving the rate up but it wasn't -- it isn't until just recently it wasn't until just recently that the numbers are such that the written rate gains now are projected to exceed current view of loss trend.
We've never said that before.
You can go back to all the transcripts and you can check.
When asked the closest I think we ever got was that we were saying it was getting close to a push.
That was about as close as we got to talking about changing margins.
And the last piece and particularly in this quarter the most important is non-cat weather.
It plays a substantive role in our quarter-to-quarter margins and in our estimates of combined ratios.
What I can share with you is this.
When you look at the underlying combined ratio now for every business segment that we are and I'm saying this exclusive of whatever catastrophe load each of us would think is appropriate but every single one of those segments for the 9 months for the year-to-date has a run rate combined ratio of under 100% some a little more then some others a little less.
But I think that what we've been sharing with everyone about what we were expecting in rate gains and loss trend is the most transparent in the business.
And I don't quite see the disconnect.
I think we've been very clear about where rate gains and loss trends have been moving.
Research Division</strong> Can you give a little detail on you said non-cat weather.
How much were the percent of the combined ratio do you think non-cat weather has been running over the past few quarters compared to where it used to be? Yes Josh so this is Brian.
I'd stepped from -- because you can pick a part that combined ratios by quarter and look at a whole bunch of different things.
But if you look at our year-to-date in Business Insurance combined ratio and the ex-cat ex-PYD number of 98.2 I would say knock about a point off of that and you've got what we view as our run rate combined.
Round number which is roughly a 2-point deterioration as you can see on the page.
It's 2.9 so knock a point off of that it's about a 2-point deterioration in the margin.
That's -- anytime you look at the quarter you've got weather spikes you've got weather compared to what weather was last year if a quarter was made -- an adjustment was made in this quarter or an adjustment was made in prior-year quarter and then we put so 3 quarters worth of the impact in one spot the numbers get wacky.
And in a given quarter there'll be an episodic large loss that's not really run rate driven.
Our best analysis as Brian says is looking at the reported ex-cat of 98.2 and we see about a point in there that's driven by what we would certainly consider non-run rate items.
Right.
And back to about 2 points of margin compression for the year.
Our next question coming from the line of Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question you mentioned on previous calls that the delta between new business pricing and renewals are shrinking.
I just wanted to know is that still the case? If can update us on that.
And the reason I really asked this is broker Brown &amp; Brown yesterday made some comments that would maybe contrast with that statement a little bit and then I've got a follow-up.
No our experience is that it is continuing to shrink a little bit.
And we would as a matter of -- I don't have a number to give you on this.
But as we've been speaking with our field people a very relevant question is okay.
We get what you're doing in the renewal rate arena but what are you doing in the new business arena? What we're instructing our field people to do is to bring that higher level of expected rate to their new business negotiations.
That's very very important.
It's the instructions that they're getting or to be as return focused in new.
It doesn't mean the returns are equivalent but to be as a return focused in new as they are in renewal.
And to the extent that new business falls off that's just fine.
No issue there.
Do you want to add any? No? And anything in Personal or FPII that you want to add or...
I don't think it's much of the dynamic in [indiscernible] Yes because you're all the same.
You have the same pricing.
It's a Business Insurance phenomenon.
What we know factually Keith is our experience the target that we're putting out and what we believe the prices that we're writing in at is the GAAP is narrowing some for us.
Whether it's unique we don't know.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for Jay you guys have done a nice job achieving and articulating the progress on rate the last several quarters.
But just more big picture.
How do you link a needed rate increases with the current yield realities? And then more specifically is the rate you're getting today commensurate with the drop in net investment income you're experiencing now and going forward? Those are great questions.
They really are.
And something that we spend a tremendous amount of time here analyzing and looking at.
So first is as I've shared with all of you before we do have a quarterly analysis that looks at renewal return on allocated capital as well as new business return on allocated capital for every product that we sell in every business.
And it's a policy view.
What I mean by it it's literally the term we use internally.
It's an analysis which attempts to say given everything we know today rate today loss trend today what is the return on that product.
About -- I got to check specifically but maybe 9 months ago we determined to update that analysis for the new yield curve in such a way that the analysis now calculates these returns as if all the new money is going in against the yield curve as it's currently structured.
Now the last time we -- meaning all the premium money.
The capital bears a percentage of the return embedded in the portfolio but the new money goes in against the old curve and we just count it back.
We have not yet updated it for what I would say are the events over the last 6 weeks because the yield curve is most certainly flattening again.
And I don't know how long it will stay but once we become convinced that that's longer rather than shorter we will update it for that.
The returns are not -- I'm not going to share with you what they are but when we know them.
We know them and we understand the impact both of the declining investment environment as well as the impact in our property lines of weather.
And obviously the long tail lines are more impacted by the investment environment.
The shorter tailed lines are more impacted by the weather.
But no matter how you look at it they were all impacted.
That gets us to driving for rate.
Because while I believe and I do believe this I believe that our accident year return on equity overall in a normal weather year whatever that means is still in excess of our cost of equity.
And I believe that it is.
We still need to begin to drive rate because the portfolio will continue to mature and roll over into the lower yields.
And we've got to make sure that we always have in mind delivering superior returns relative to our cost of equity.
So we're on it.
And that's why the urgency here for as a matter of tactics I would say it is now all about rate.
It is all about rate.
Our next question coming from the line of Gregory Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just follow up on a couple of items that obviously we've been discussing.
One is just on the potential for margin inflection.
I just want to be clear.
Has your margin already inflected? I mean effectively what you're saying is in September and October pricing is outstripping loss? And so what I'm trying to assess is margins on an accident year ex-cat ex-reserve basis core margins have been deteriorating for several years now.
Should we begin to inflect them into next year in our models? So the first important thing and we try to say it but let's emphasize it.
We're talking about written rate.
So the 4.3 points of rate that we're seeing in September in Business Insurance we believe is ahead of our current view of loss trend.
That needs to earn into the income statement over time.
And so to the extent that we can string a reasonable number of months together like that it will begin to earn in.
But that earns in the way premium earns in.
So it's 1/12 at a time.
And so we are not saying that in September the month in our income statement we saw margin expansion.
Just to be crystal clear.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I'm more thinking about next year.
So are there any businesses right now where margins are -- where pricing is below loss trend? Right now in all of our segments...
On an earned basis let's make sure we're answering the right question.
Okay yes.
On a written basis we feel that in all of our segments we are ahead of loss trend.
Maybe modestly.
Yes assuming a normalized weather if any of us know what normal weather is anymore.
But...
But the realization of that 2 things have to happen.
We have to continue to deliver at least that level of rate and also we have to keep monitoring loss trend to make sure that doesn't change because of inflation or any other element.
But that -- not even back of the envelop which is said to me when will this begin to evident itself and it doesn't mean that in the aggregate margins will at your face expand but Brian given the timing by the time we get to the second quarter of next year if this pattern continues at that point and we should test that because I'm doing this really on the fly.
But by the time we get to the second quarter I would think that in fact the combined ratio would begin to shrink all other things being the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very -- Brian were you going to comment? Or that's very helpful.
Okay Great.
And then actually just a question again you guys are very thoughtful on ROE and capital allocation.
It's tied into your management compensation.
So how are you -- it's very very difficult unless we have a substantial margin improvement next year to get to an ROE into the double digits well into the double digits.
So how do you set goals for next year given where yields are at sort of building off to Keith's question earlier? But the combined ratio is only one lever.
The other lever in investments is sort of is what it is and it's out there.
No that's -- it's again another thoughtful question Greg.
Two things.
One is that from a GAAP perspective meaning the earnings per share that we will report the investment yield continues to take time.
It rolls -- the portfolio rolls obviously but it doesn't happen all at once.
So from a pure GAAP reported perspective it's not as bad as if one did the analysis assuming the entire portfolio were currently invested at current yields.
So we have 2 separate analysis to do.
What drives our pricing is pure economics.
What current rates are available to invest new premium dollars that we bring in.
We don't kid ourselves one bit.
We understand and fundamentally discount back at today's yields in the aggregate.
And we haven't done our budget yet for next year and it's not as if management -- we don't think that we have levers to drive things differently.
And we will do it but we will be benefited in that regard by the fact that the portfolio doesn't all turnover at one instant.
And so it's always important to keep those 2 different tracks in mind.
Our next question coming from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
The first is there was another company that in their pre-announcement suggested some loss pressure in the surety business because of economic conditions.
And I was wondering if you're seeing any signs of that? And then secondly the favorable development particularly in the Financial Professional &amp; International segment was really quite strong.
And I'm wondering if you can give us more color what lines of business what accidents this year that's coming from -- what's driving that very strong favorable development? Sure.
It's Alan Schnitzer.
On the surety side we've certainly seen that the same commentary you've seen on others.
We're just not seeing that in our portfolio and I would attribute that to careful selection and we've been talking about that for a number of quarters and that would explain in part why our surety premiums have been under some pressure.
But that business is really all about discipline underwriting and risk selection and we really focused intensely on credit quality.
And we measure the credit quality of our book and we've got our own proprietary credit scoring.
And while I wouldn't say it's an all-time high when you look at it on a historical basis it's still very very favorable and it's where we would've expected to be thinking back to what our expectations were several years ago.
So there's been some movement in that credit quality but entirely within expectations and we're very comfortable with the risks in our surety portfolio.
Just to come back as you went through it quickly you said premiums were under pressure that's from a perspective of underwriting thoughtfulness a voluntary.
Risk selection and essentially seeding to the market risks that we weren't prepared to write.
Your second question related to prior development and it's hard to point to one thing.
It expands a number of action at years expands really all the geographies and there isn't one particular item or trend I'd point out as necessarily driving that.
It really is broadly base.
Our next question coming from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple here.
First Jay historically you've given us what the impact of the lower investment yield environment would potentially be on investment income going forward.
Could you give us any update on where we stand right now given the current investment yield environment? Well yes I mean in terms of the basic analysis it really hasn't changed fundamentally.
What we do -- what we've done historically is we've provided an estimate of how much of the fixed income portfolio would "mature" -- and I'll say why quote unquote in a second -- over the next 3 years.
We don't just look at the maturities as a function of what the documents say.
We take a look at given the interest-rate environment what's likely to prepay as well.
So I think in the past looking at 2012 we had said something to the effect of about $6 billion or so would roll over in the portfolio given where rates are that number will be a little bit higher possibly $6.5 billion $7 billion.
Although I will say that my own and this is my view my question not even a view I mean given what drives that meaning mortgage prepayments in this environment it's really not really clear how they're actually going to perform.
So it could actually be closer to the $6 billion.
But in any event it's that kind of a proportion of the portfolio and then the rest is we've given the rates as to what is embedded in the portfolio.
I mean generally speaking on a tax equivalent basis it's been somewhere in the 4% 4.5% range of what's coming due.
So it's anybody's guess what rate to use for a reinvestment assumption I think when we started doing this it was 75 basis points then it was 150 basis points.
I think if you look at it today it would be closer to the 150 maybe a little more so I mean pick that.
But that's basically the nature of the analysis.
Also a lot of fix income securities have periods of call protection.
Traditionally about 10 years in much the muni portfolio.
So we have to incorporate that.
And that's not really apparent to someone looking at it from the outside unless you wade through it security by security.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And are you doing anything with your investment portfolio try to limit the degradation you're going to see in the book yields? We have always operated on the principle that we'll try to get the best return the market gives us but not more than the best return the market gives us.
Actually right now we're emphasizing credit quality.
Because we think no matter which way things break it's going to be even more important than it was 2 or 3 years ago to have the highest credit quality you can.
So we're not reaching for yield.
We're taking much what the market will give us.
Brian just to build his comment further in the portfolio I don't recall it being structured any shorter from the duration standpoint than it is now.
It has gotten shorter simply by mathematical operation.
Obviously as you move along the price yield curve the slope of the tangent changes and the duration changes even if the portfolio is unchanged.
But our duration is about as short as we would want it now.
And that actually given the flat yield curve is really a place you sort of want to be at the moment.
And to the extent that we're wrong and we always consider the possibility that we're wrong and rates rise we're going to be happy we positioned the portfolio that way.
And if they don't rise we don't think we're much prejudiced.
Our next question coming from the line of Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick technical follow-up on the investment portfolio.
It's just -- the private equity securities those get marked on a quarterly basis correct? They are -- we mark some according to the audited statements from the funds themselves although obviously much of the NII from private equity is the result the realizations when private equity funds sell companies in their portfolio.
And there's a slight lag but it's not great.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Just most of those private equities -- the audited statements though are about quarterly lag right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other that which is -- that's fine.
I just wanted to make sure I had that technique correct.
And then I guess either for Brian or Jay.
You've talked about what you're doing on pricing as being very much a Traveler specific effort.
But are you seeing any signs in the field that your efforts are maybe emboldening some of your competition to potentially take the same tack? We've been so focused on our own business and our own strategy and our own steps.
I mean I've been out meeting with agents.
Brian has been out meeting with agents.
We're just -- this is -- it's absorbing all of our attention.
So the answer to that is I don't know.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the agency side on the distribution side with respect to new business are you seeing any change kind of in kind of where new business is coming from at this point? And the only reason I asked is just that there has been continued talk by some of the brokers and some of the private distributors that there's increasing churns so just was curious whether or not you're seeing any difference not really different sources bringing you new business or any differences between kind of distribution coming on renewal who's bring you renewal versus new? Yes this is Bill.
The short answer is no.
We're not seeing a change.
It will be interesting to watch.
Obviously churn is the inverse of retention ratios.
And our retention ratios remain pretty high.
I would guess listening to a few the other companies over the next few days into what their retention ratios have been will give you real insight into whether that's true or not.
From our experience the answer would be no.
But that doesn't mean it's universal.
Our next question coming from the line of Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
Just on going back to non-cat weather.
So I guess I presume that year-to-date the entire 4.3 point underwriting deterioration accident year ex-cat for personal lines that would all be attributed or primarily attributed to non-cat weather? Hey Larry this is Greg Toczydlowski.
Predominantly that's absolutely true.
Close to 80% of it is non-cat weather and we saw that on both the automobile lines and the property lines.
Okay.
And then I think when you previously had been given -- giving annual earnings guidance your suggested cat load at that time was I think around $600 million.
And from Jay's comments anybody's guess on normal weather these days I know it's probably a hard thing to peg down.
But is there any guidance you can give us on what a normal cat load is today? Well obviously when we finally get to our budget for next year we'll have a number such as it is.
The only hesitation is that we're still sort of I'd say in the midst of RMS 11 and what that does to our cat loads.
Jay said that it's going to increase some and it will as a result of that program not so much just to put us out of in effect out of policy or out of line with our capital committed to it but it is going to change.
So I just think it's early Larry.
And we'll give some thought as to whether after that work whether we feel comfortable providing some more insight.
I understand it's an important factor for everyone to understand and we obviously have made a disclosure of it in our -- not of the average annual loss but of our tail exposure in our 10-K.
So when we get there maybe we'll have a basis for saying something about what our average annual loss estimates are.
Our next question coming from the line of Cliff Gallant with KBY.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions are answered.
I guess I could ask on the property lines just to clarify the point.
You talk about rate increases being pretty strong in the high single-digit range.
But the RMS model changed again changing your weather expectations.
So how should we think about the expected return on the business? And in net is expected return still rising? Well first let me -- because I'm not sure I'm connecting a part of your question.
Let's make it clear.
RMS 11 is in effect a hurricane model.
What it's doing is it's taking our estimates of windstorm hurricane windstorm and changing it which is important in lots of property risks but not every property risk.
We have lots of property risks that are not hurricane exposed.
So RMS will have an impact obviously on our -- I think in the end what it will have an impact on is our pricing view of hurricane exposed risks.
Not everywhere because we're going to get down to the point of identifying where the changes are into very specific geographies.
This is not where we get a one-number output and we spread it for everybody.
We're going to use that model and help us drive thoughtful pricing decisions in specific geographic areas.
But it's a windstorm focused model.
In terms of pricing on property generally I don't know what we said.
We didn't say a number.
We didn't say high single-digits.
We said that...
Our largest quarter-over-quarter improvement but we didn't give you the numbers.
And what's really driving that -- and it's important because what's driving that is not yet I would say RMS 11.
What's really driving that is the experience predominantly windstorm and hail tornado and hail that we've had the last several years.
If you go back to -- I don't remember if it was last quarter or the quarter before we can either make the decision that we're really smart and we've been unlucky or we can make the decision that something different is happening whether we fully understand it or not and we should react to it.
We've chosen the latter.
And as a consequence if you look in the areas that are meaningfully tornado exposed we used to talk about tornado alley the data suggests that's not so relevant anymore.
That the people remind me all the time we have one in Springfield Massachusetts this year sucking the water right out of the Connecticut River.
So as you sit back as we sit back and just think about weather in fact we're in some cycle I'm not making any global warming statement here but maybe we're in a cycle of more active storms we've got to react and so our reacting here.
And all of -- many analysts tend to think all the time of Homeowners.
They immediately go there.
We have a substantial property exposure in our commercial book in our small commercial business and in our middle market businesses.
So the dynamic of property extends way beyond Homeowners which actually that's the reason I gave the data.
We've been achieving 8 to 9 points of what we call their renewal price change for the last several periods.
Right.
So there we have been getting high single-digits for a couple of years now.
That's right.
And that maybe where you're getting it from.
That was a comment about renewal price renewal rate change or price change in Homeowners.
But there is a full dynamic of property exposure in our commercial business where obviously for competitive reasons we're not being quite as transparent about what our particular strategies are other than to say it was the largest increase right it was the largest improvement.
Our last question coming from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a sense of how systematic the asbestos reserves charges might be.
And in the press release you mentioned the current litigation environment was driving higher settlement costs.
Is it plaintive tactics is it jury wars is it the bad economy in certain states? Just trying to get a feel for what's continuing to drive the adverse development there and what you might be able to do to try and mitigate that? I'll try to answer the question and maybe Dorian [ph] or Alan will try them as well.
But we make estimates all the time as to what our future costs regarding today.
And in this particular case we had made an estimate that would suggest that the costs would go down slightly.
And instead of going down slightly they went up slightly.
We are in a situation where -- and we think is a good thing that the miso cases are the ones that are getting tried.
It’s not like many years ago where they were whole package pre-bankruptcies and whole different set of circumstances.
But this is slugging it out on court on a case-by-case basis.
And depending upon what the situation is your defense costs are going to be either smaller or larger than what your expectations are.
And they just have been running a little bit larger than what we had previously expected when we set the reserve.
Having said that we don't view it as any fundamental change in the way the asbestos environment is operating.
Right.
And the only thing I'd add to that is there are several jurisdictions that you see an increase of the attack on peripheral defendants which really don't have a lot of liability.
But those meso cases are fairly serious.
And so we're assisting in short defend against them.
And so that's what's really driving up the defense cost.
For the record [indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Now that's helpful.
Just to clarify then so if it's your point now it is a most mesothelioma cases and that kind of the broad asbestos kind of thing then I mean how do we think about this annually? It should be a Decane [ph] liability yet you're continuing to have issues.
So is this kind of the last gasp of this as these mesos move through the system? Or should we think about this being something we have to deal with every third quarter? Well we do want to make a point that if you look at the gross reserve increase last year versus the gross reserve increase this year it was less this year than last year.
And as it relates to the population one would have to believe that there's some point in time where this drops off now just given the passage of time and the exposure periods as well as when the asbestos exclusions kicked in in terms of the way the policies were written.
Having said that whatever this decay rate is it will be what it will be and we're trying to estimate it each year.
And that's what these adjustments relate to what's the actual decay rate versus what's been anticipate in the reserve setting.
Ms.
Nawi I will now turn the call back to you.
Please continue with the presentation or closing remarks.
Very good.
Thank you for joining us today.
As always both myself and Andrew Hersom are available for any follow-up questions.
Thanks and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter and full year results conference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Tuesday January 24 2012.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Carlos.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers discussion of our fourth quarter and 2011 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplements and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of the these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investor section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available on the Investor section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased that we posted solid results in the fourth quarter with net income per share at $1.51 and return on equity of 10%.
The story for the full year of course was the remarkable weather.
Weather losses were far and away the worse in our history and as a consequence net earnings per share of $3.36 for the year were considerably lower than what we've become accustomed to.
Nevertheless we price our product for the long term and of course we don't control the weather.
There will be years such as 2006 and '07 in which weather losses are surprisingly low and of course there will be years but hopefully not too many in which losses will be high.
Also a less financially significant but nonetheless important piece of the 2011 story was the persistent low fixed-income investment environment.
A 1.5 years ago in the middle of 2010 we made the important decision that we were going to actively take steps in terms of rate terms and conditions to improve future returns in light of the insurance pricing environment and our view that it was increasingly likely that we would be facing low fixed-income yields for some time to come.
We increased those efforts in the middle of 2011 in recognition of the possibility that weather patterns might be changing prospectively for the worst particularly given the active weather we experienced in 2010 and into the first half of 2011.
We've shared with you before that we are just not big believers in magic market cycles.
We understand that our business is about one underwriter and one agent discussing one account at a time.
But we believe that our franchise were strong enough that we could seek improved profitability through improved rate terms and conditions without adverse effect to our business.
And 18 months later we have proven that to be the case in most of our commercial businesses.
We take these actions selectively where analytics suggest they are warranted and we try very hard never to be disruptive to our agents or insureds.
In our judgment the success we've experienced speaks to the value that we bring to agents and customers and the success we've had positions the company very well going into 2012.
In particular Business Insurance excluding National Accounts had a pure renewal rate gain of more than 6% for the quarter and 8% for December.
As a result given our current view of loss trends we anticipate widening of the underlying underwriting margins in Business Insurance in the first half of 2012.
In Personal Insurance the regulatory environment is such that while the progress we've made is important the real evidence of success remains ahead of us as we continue to roll out the pricing and underwriting changes that we have decided to pursue.
But I want to emphasize that the steps we are taking are not limited to rate.
There are a number of levers available to us in addition to rate as we pursue improved returns.
It include underwriting actions particularly with respect to risk selection and location as well as changing underwriting standards with respect to roofs and loss history in Personal Insurance.
We've always been attentive to our expense base and we continue to be very thoughtful in that regard.
Our commitment to improving perspective returns in Personal Insurance is no less than that which we had in Business Insurance when we began this program 18 months ago.
Every personalized franchise is unique.
Every company's agent group is different and importantly the value proposition to the insureds is quite different company to company.
We believe that we will be successful given our agents our insureds and the value that we bring.
So while the bottom line financial results this year were less than we would hoped we couldn't be more pleased and more proud of our people when we look at the progress we've made to achieve improved returns particularly given the difficult environment that continues to confront the U.S.
economy.
We have really demonstrate the value of the Travelers franchise to agents and insureds as well as the strength and diversity of the business that has allowed us to achieve all that we have over the past 18 months.
We ran the business for the long term and focus on returns over time.
We're also pleased and proud that since 2005 we've generated an average annual upgrade and return on equity of 13%.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
Let me begin by stating that we have maintained our strong cash position ending the year with holding company liquidity of $2.4 billion.
Operating cash flow is $351 million for the quarter which included unusually high claim payments that resulted from this year's severe weather and $150 million payment to our qualified pension plan that even in this very low interest environment kept our funding level close to 90%.
And consistent with an ongoing capital management strategy we continue to return excess capital to our shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased $1.2 billion of our common stock which was at the top of our previously announced range and paid $166 million in dividends bringing year-to-date common stock repurchases to $2.9 billion and year-to-date dividends to $669 million.
As was the case this quarter there have been many periods during the past several years in which our share repurchase and dividends significantly exceeded our earnings.
We achieved this by diligently and systematically identifying opportunities to free up capital returning that freed-up capital to our shareholders.
After several years of working at it the process of freeing up capital is now largely complete so we now expect the future common share repurchases will be driven more by future earnings levels taking into account capital needed for business growth and corporate needs such as death service and pension obligations.
Having said that we remain fully committed to identifying and returning excess capital shareholders whatever the source.
I'd also like to point out that all of our capital ratios remain at or better than target levels at the end of the year.
Net unrealized investment gains increased by $337 million during the quarter to $4.4 billion pretax or almost $2.9 billion after tax and book value per share rose to $62.32 a 7% increase since the beginning of the year.
So now let me turn the microphone over to Brian to go through the results in more detail.
Thanks Jay.
I'll start with Business Insurance and the real news in this segment is that the rate on the business we are writing is up significantly in the last 6 months and is now meaningfully exceeding our current view of loss trend.
Renewal premium change of 8% for the quarter included pure rate increases of over 6%.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter that Business Insurance has seen positive rate change on renewed accounts and as with recent quarters rate increase across all product lines with the largest increases in workers' comp and auto.
We are very pleased that the months within the quarter continue to show sequential improvement in pricing with December renewal premium change of 10% and pure rate increase of 8% for the segment.
And based on our preliminary look at January business pure rate gain looks pretty similar to what we achieved in December.
Net written premiums were up year-over-year driven by pricing gains and positive audit premiums.
Retention and new business levels were solid though down somewhat from recent quarters.
As we mentioned last quarter execution on our pricing strategy may impact business volumes going forward and so far we continue to remain very comfortable with a balance between improved pricing and volume.
Through 2011 this has been a very easy call.
I want to emphasize here that when we speak about pricing strategy our goal is not simply to increase the price on every account.
It's a very granular approach based on analytics where we're looking for the appropriate price for the individual risk or the class of business.
It's never been a one-size-fits-all approach.
Turning to losses.
Overall loss trend was relatively benign.
In workers’ comp we saw some higher-than-expected frequency from 2010.
In commercial auto 2009 and 2010 bodily injury and 2011 physical damage losses were above our initial expectation.
So some movement in loss trend concentrated in the 2010 accident year but more than offset by increased prices.
In summary we feel extremely positive about the results in Business Insurance.
And in our current pricing levels we believe that we will be generating underlying underwriting margin expansion beginning in the first half of 2012.
In the Financial Professional &amp; international Insurance segment operating income of $152 million for the quarter was very strong and consistent with the prior year quarter.
This caps a very good year for the segment with full year earnings up more than 4% over what was a good 2010 result.
In surety we continue to see strong margins and slightly less volume driven by sluggishness in construction spending.
We could not be more pleased that we've been able to maintain our current position as the market leader in this business during a very challenging economic environment without a meaningful increase in losses.
That we have done so speaks volumes about our ability to select risks the credit quality of this business and our approach of running this business for the long term.
Looking at management liability.
This remains a line of business where market pricing continues to be challenged but less so at the smaller end which is the source of most of our premium.
While our pricing here has lagged most of our other businesses we were able to achieve positive renewal premium change for the second quarter in a row.
This is reflective of favorable production results in our private and non-profit business and is due in part to benefits from recent technology investments.
In international net written premiums were down quarter-over-quarter due primarily to the timing of a few small reinsurance transactions and our exit from the personal lines of business in Ireland.
Over the past several years we have increased our focus on our international operations and we are pleased with the progress to date.
The quarter-over-quarter improvement in the underlying loss ratio more than offset the increase in the expense ratio which is a good sign that the investment is paying off.
In Personal Insurance.
Looking at auto profitability the story is essentially the same as discussed for commercial auto.
We've seen a moderate increase from expectations in bodily injury severity for the most recent accident years and the higher-than-anticipated level of claim frequency in severity in the physical damage coverages for the 2011 accident year.
The quarter-over-quarter impact of these items both from prior year and 2011 prior quarters was almost 6 combined ratio points.
Because of this volatility and the normal seasonality in the quarter we think a better way to focus on the run rate of the business is to look at the full year combined ratio which after adjusting for cats and prior-year development was 99.5.
This includes 1 point directly attributable to higher non-cat weather-related losses.
And so 98.5 is our view of the current run rate which is only 2 to 3 points higher than the combined ratio required to get us back to our historical target return.
As Jay mentioned we are committed to improving returns in this product in 2012 by aggressively pursuing rate and implementing local underwriting strategies.
In Homeowners and Other profits were once again down in the quarter due primarily to adverse weather.
Although the impact of the weather in the fourth quarter was dramatically less than in recent quarters it was still slightly higher than expectations driven by the unusual northeast October snowstorm.
In addition we did have some increased claim activity in the non-cat weather from earlier in the year.
As we have said many times we obviously don't know what the weather will be in 2012 but given the experience of the last several years we are managing the business with the expectation that weather losses may continue to run above longer term historical averages.
Accordingly we are taking a broad-based assertive approach to managing the property product which includes not only executing local pricing strategies but also seeking to tighten underwriting standards and changes in terms and conditions.
As examples we are underwriting for age and quality of roof re-assessing how we factor in the number and type of previous claims and implementing higher minimum deductibles for weather and non-weather claims.
Additionally we are changing a small portion of our re-insurance program to create a structure that better responds to higher frequency lower severity events.
So we are taking a lot of actions in homeowners and are confident that these actions will further enhance the long-term profitability of our industry-leading franchise.
Turning to production.
For both Agency Auto and Property renewal premium changed and retention remains strong while new business continues to trend down slightly as we accelerate our pricing underwriting and terms and conditions action.
With that I'll open it up to.
Carlos you can open it up for Q&amp;A now.
Yes ma'am.
Ma'am would you like me to read the Q&amp;A instructions now? No.
It's okay.
You can open -- you can open it up to questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Ma'am would you like me to go to the first question? Yes please.
And the first question comes from the line of Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
First Business Insurance.
You've alluded to in the press release the underwriting margin it looked like it would potentially improve in the first half of '12.
Is this more optimistic than what you guys talked about last quarter where you seem to be a lot more adamant that this would take time to earn in over the next 12 months? And then I've got a follow-up.
Well Keith this is Jay.
The rate that we earned -- the rate that we wrote -- I'm sorry the rate we wrote in the fourth quarter was obviously at a higher level than that which we wrote in the third quarter.
So going into 2012 as we look out into 2012 as it earns we are not more optimistic because that implies an attitude.
This is fact.
The fact is the rate in the fourth quarter was higher than the rate in the third.
So wherever we were in the third quarter with respect to margins we're better off today and it will simply take the time to earn that written premium into earn.
So I'd say that it's not a matter of optimism meaning feeling it's really a matter of arithmetic and fact.
We're in a better position today than we were at the end of the third quarter with respect to the speed with which those margins will expand and assuming that we continue to earn rate at this level the effect that it will have in the margin arena.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just sticking with Business Insurance.
Obviously the rates are good but let's focus on the other part of the game here.
I guess the retention in new business which are both pretty -- down pretty sharply on the new business side especially.
So what are the dynamics of not just the accounts you're keeping which we can see in the rate but what about the accounts you are losing? What's really going on there? If you could talk about new business hit rate.
Thanks.
First I would disagree categorically with your characterization of this down sharply.
The retention in Business Insurance for the fourth quarter was at 81%...
79%.
I'm sorry.
79%.
79% was commercial.
79%.
In the context of thinking about business long term that's still an exceptionally high retention rate.
I mean we've gotten used to rates in those mid-80s that frankly we've never ever seen before.
If you go back to the period in the late '90s and early 2000s and middle market retention we struggled to get it above a number that started with a 7.
So what's happening on the Business Insurance side is really -- it's just fine.
This is an easy trade-off.
The one segment of the business where retention has been lower than others has been in the larger end of Select right? You may recall that we define Select as the smallest end which is highly technological.
And then there's Express Plus which is the larger end of Select.
That category remains a more challenging pricing environment.
It has to do with the way we think that regionals compete and how they view middle market pricing.
They don't have the technology to really compete effectively at the low end of small commercial.
They don't have the infrastructure to compete effectively at the true middle market business that we define so they tend to land in that larger end segment.
We've established our own thresholds for return expectations and to the extent that we can capture business that meets those return thresholds we'll take it and to the extent somebody else decides they want to take it away from us at a lower price that's just fine.
We're -- so far this has gone better than I think any of us would have expected 18 months ago.
And the trade-off at this point between return gains and retentions as we described it is losses.
It's just fine.
What was the 81%? The 81% was...
81% was Commercial Accounts...
Commercial accounts yes...
Overall -- this is Brian.
Overall in retention x the high end of Select we are right around 80% a little bit north of 80% and we feel great about that.
On the new business front we're going to look at business in the marketplace and if we can find stuff that meets our return thresholds we're going to write it.
And in this environment we're not going to search below that.
I'd make other observation -- and it's more challenging for us in quantify it and demonstrate it but we have indicators that will support what I'm about to say.
New business pricing is also better than it was.
It's part of the measure because you simply don't have the prior-year expiring premium to compare it but we are comparing new business pricing against the manual rate that we construct.
And when you look at that pattern there are 2 things that are really encouraging.
One is that there's clearly lift going on.
And two that the gap between -- and I'm not speaking necessarily about this particular quarter but looking at it over a longer period of time here 6 8 months the gap between renewal and new has narrowed.
And so both of those things give us a pretty good sense of confidence that the pricing for new business is lifting as well.
Can't quite quantify it with the level of precision that we can renewal but we feel awfully good about it.
The one comment last comment I'd make on new is that our flow is still very solid.
So if this was a matter of we weren't getting opportunity to quote on business and we weren't quoting we'd be a lot more concerned with that.
So we feel good about the flow we feel good about our activity in the marketplace and profitably levels will be where they will be.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions both related to pricing.
Can you talk about your desire in 2012 to continue to push for rate on the commercial side? Because obviously you've achieved a certain amount of rate already.
Is that desire still very much in place? Or will you be satisfied now where the priced ROEs are and you don't need to push as much? That's question number one.
And then secondly if you could describe the dialogue you're having with agents and brokers.
Obviously your effort is to improve profitability improve returns theirs is to do the best for their clients.
How much pushback or are you getting from the agents and have you sensed a change in that pushback? Jay I'll take on the first one.
No our strategy now remains as is.
We're going to continue to do this selectively thoughtfully targeted but we are going to continue.
And our goal -- we get asked all the time "What's the target?" We don't have one.
And that's partially because some of the conditions that we're responding to were just not as clear to us as they might be.
I'm speaking specifically about weather.
I'm speaking about investment returns.
And so we're going to try and drive our products and our returns back to the historical kind of broad-based targets.
We still have a mid-teens ROE as a -- long term.
We talked about it over time but we still very much have that as a long-term target.
We are most certainly from an individual pricing basis this is important now I'm not speaking about the return on equity in the whole place I'm getting very granular with you in talking about the returns on allocated capital of individual products based upon the rate that we have in place today and our immediate view of loss trend.
We are getting closer.
We are making real progress in getting back to the levels that will ultimately convert it to mid-teens ROE on a GAAP basis.
So we got some to go yet but we are encouraged and we're going to keep driving until we find whether we can or not get back to our historical kind of return thresholds.
So that's I think the answer with what does 2012 feel like from a strategic and tactical perspective.
[indiscernible] Bill Cunningham to talk about the agent arena.
Good morning.
I would say on overall basis we look at our agent relationships as very strong partnerships and as being a strong partner not surprising them is critical.
So being upfront early in the process with our agent in terms of what we're doing on an overall basis but more importantly as Brian mentioned this is not a one-size-fits-all.
So every account communicated to the agent as early in the process as possible because our ultimate goal is together to be out with the client explaining why we need a given rate increase on a given transaction.
At the same time we do -- from time to time agents feel a need to test where we're coming from so they give them time to do that.
But I would tell you on an overall basis it has been very positive in terms of the feedback we received and how we've handled it.
And so again partnership early in the process no surprises together sitting down with the customer whenever possible and not putting them in a position where their back is against the wall is key to our partnership.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here for you.
First going back to the auto insurance results that you're seeing in the quarter.
When you talked about the 98.5 and need to get it down to a 96 I guess the question I have there is one kind of what are you doing to get it down there? Is it just pure rate? And is the market kind of receptive of the type of rate that you need to get it back down to those 96 levels? And then I have one follow-up.
Brian these is Greg Toczydlowski.
In terms of the auto strategy predominantly a rate strategy that we're focused on automobile.
When Jay and Brian talked about all the other levers that we're looking at from an underwriting in terms of conditions we're focused a little more on the property side of the house with that.
So we're monitoring our competitive position all the time and given the regulatory environment that we live in it takes a little bit of time before we can get that rate grow but we're feeling that we're continuing to see good flow and good retention numbers and we'll continue looking at that as we go forward with the business.
Research Division</strong> But obviously if you're writing at a 98.5 99 that's not your kind of an acceptable return level.
They can't get a double-digit ROE off of that right? That is correct.
We are shooting closer to that combined ratio that you threw off [ph] in 96 and we're going to be doing that through pricing.
And some of the dynamics Brian that we've been experiencing we suspect are more broad-based.
This is just one.
But it's -- some unusual -- the pattern has developed with the slowdown of the new automobile business generally.
Price of used cars has risen.
If the price of used cars has risen what's been interesting is the number of accidents that result in total losses where the car produces salvage have actually gone down.
The car relative value up.
Auto repair cost much less so more cars are being put back on the road.
And a consequence we've seen of that is an increase in sheet metal cost.
I'm not talking about new sheet metal.
I'm speaking now about replacement parts.
And that's not unique to us.
That's going to be a condition that's going to affect lots of people.
Now it may impact us a tad more because we tend to write more comprehensive coverage than some other carriers do so we may be on a more extreme side of that.
But the kinds of things that we're seeing are not things that -- it's very important are not things that indicate problems with underwriting or risk selection.
They are more episodic issues with respect to specific costs that are not I would say unique to us.
So our hope is and of course we are going to find out that we can go to the market and drive the kinds of rate increases that will bring this back just like we did in Business Insurance.
We started extremely slowly.
We started 18 months ago asking fundamentally if our folks can get 1 point.
That's what we said.
Let's see if we can get 1 point and we've built on that every month.
We're going to take that same systematic thoughtful and patient approach to auto insurance and homeowners and see what progress we can make.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then question for Brian.
When you mentioned pure rate also up 8% can you define that? Is that just rate less cost inflation? No.
When we say pure rate we're looking at the components of the premium change.
No exposure.
So it's the rate charged per -- exposure on that on the average renewal.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then how would that compare to what loss cost inflation kind of looks like in the quarter? We don't peg the exact number but we've said we're meaningfully exceeding it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Excellent.
And then just lastly Interest rate assumption when you're talking about getting rate getting close to your kind of historical kind of double-digit ROE targets what are you thinking about the interest rate environment? Mechanics on that are that all new money is discounted at the current yield curve basically where we invest money today and the surplus embedded in the business in that calculation is a more historical element premised on the fact that we have surplus that rolls off from old products and then comes on to support new.
But importantly we're not kidding ourselves the investment return.
That's all new money at all new -- at current yield curve today.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on pricing.
We've seen pricing and workers compensation and commercial auto up sharply because of high loss cost trends.
Curious about what are trends you've seen in pricing and other lines that you're pushing this year versus last year? So a couple of just clarifications on that.
The comp and the auto we have the strongest rate improvement.
It's not just because we're seeing -- or it's not because we're seeing sharp increases in loss cost there.
Obviously pricing always has something to do with the loss cost trend but it's not a sharp increase.
We saw a fairly significant increase of a couple of points really on almost every single line of business we write.
So this isn't an example where comp is spiking up dramatically.
Auto's up a lot and everything else is kind of flat.
I would say every line in the commercial space is moving comp and auto more dramatically but it's not completely out of pattern with everything else.
Research Division</strong> Are you talking about rate? Rate.
I'm talking about rate change.
And as Brian reminds all of us and you as well.
In many of our lines of business.
It's very much a state-by-state story.
There tends to be this view that it's one national rate.
It's not.
There are states where either frequency or severity underlying trends are either more concerning or less concerning than others.
So our reaction with respect to rate and what we're trying to accomplish is very much driven by the state environment specific to that particular risk.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
That's helpful.
As a follow-up what is the impact of non-cat to weather for all the segments? I believe for the personal lines it was 2 years for the full year.
Non-cat weather? I'm looking at Greg.
Non-cat weather in PI for the full year.
Can we disclose that level of granularity I guess is the question.
It's not something that we've disclosed previously.
We obviously have some view of it but the substance of that answer is functionally dependent upon whether our assumption of normal weather is right or wrong or high or low.
So rather than trying to get into a debate of how much was non-cat weather we just -- that's just -- it's internal and I'm not sure the data is all that meaningful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And just one last thing if I may what -- to what amount of rate increase do you think on the personal auto line do you think will be necessary for you to get to your level of profitability that you're targeting? Well the arithmetic is actually pretty simple.
In Personal Insurance if we want to drive the combined ratio down by 2 points we got to get about 3 points of rate above and beyond what we otherwise would because we are obviously in effect I'd say always getting rate.
That's not universally true.
But fundamentally it's a business where the renewal price change has always been positive.
I can't recall that it ever went to a [indiscernible]...
Up 2 to 3 points.
So that's really the dynamic of kind of 3 points of rate above and beyond we would otherwise get and under the presumption that loss trend stays about where it is.
So there's an all other things being equal dynamic.
But the answer to that is it's not as far away as it might otherwise see.
Now the marketplace will have to say whatever it wants to say and we're obviously aware of that.
And our influence our market consequence our breadth in Business Insurance is I think one of the attributes that's enabled us to accomplish what we did in PI whether -- we'll see whether that same dynamic holds true in personal in the same way.
But it's just not that far off.
Just jumping back to his first question because we have answered part of this in the past so on the non-cat weather.
I mean we said last quarter in Business Insurance and it's still probably about the right number is there's a point in the combined ratio of variance above a normal non-cat weather number for the year.
I said -- in the quarter it was pretty flat in BI but for the year it' still about 1 point.
In auto personal lines I said there was a point of clearly identifiable non-cat weather it might actually be more in auto.
And the Whole number I don't remember off the top of my head.
They are going to go on a same basis.
Full year property would be closer to 2 to 3 points.
Variance from a non-cat weather.
From whatever we [indiscernible] coming back to the notion of...
Whatever was normally our view of normal and weather always been.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
The first is on the share buyback pace for 2012.
Should we be thinking about buybacks being equal to net income operating earnings retained earnings can you just clarify? Well what we were trying to say was it should be looked at based on earnings so not retained earnings for sure.
And then net income versus operating income they are both income and they have tended to be relatively similar.
So we think mostly in terms of operating income but if they were large realized gains or something we would take that into account as well but that would be more episodic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just want to confirm.
And then what's the sort of maximum comfort level on debt to capital x the unrealized gains? We've talked in the past about -- for AA company like us it's being in the 15% to 25% range.
We are at a little over 23%.
Part of the 23% is actually driven by prefunding $250 million of debt that's going to mature in 2012.
So that's worth about 7 basis points in that calculation.
But being within that range is a very comfortable place for us.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the final one is on the non-fixed income after-tax earnings it was down in 4Q versus 3Q.
I'm just try to figure out what you feel would be a reasonable run rate heading into this year.
Jay Bill Heyman.
For what it's worth the quarter came in just about exactly where we thought the quarter would come in on October 1 as we look to the matrix of factors which affect returns in the non-fixed income portfolio.
I suspect the best way to make predictions about the future is to look at the bar graph.
Back a few years try to draw a mean I figured that's about what we'll make because if we couldn't make that we probably wouldn't maintain the portfolio.
For what it's worth there were no real surprises in the fourth quarter.
This was about what we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I look at that over the past couple of years probably averaging around $50 million to $65 million a quarter? I'd have to look at the bar graph.
I think on the low side of that.
This is Jay.
It's one of those things as you know it's really difficult to predict.
So whatever you put in your model there is a level of uncertainty.
We have great visibility into the fixed-income part of the portfolio but this is going to be so dependent upon what the economy does.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig into the workers comp line for a bit just get some color on the market and I guess more specifically one of your competitors in Hartford has had -- has had some trouble -- some emerging troubles grow through 2011 in that line.
Some other cracks are appearing from other competition.
I know you don't believe in the cycle but what are you seeing specifically in that line? How do they manage their books of business different? And why are you so confident that this won't begin to have some issues into '12 and beyond? Let me talk for a second about -- in a little more specific what we're seeing.
I'm not going to comment on how other companies might be managing their business but we can talk certainly about how we manage ours.
So just to be clear on workers comp what we saw this year in the aggregate continues to be a pretty strong picture for us.
So if you look at the prior years '02 through '09 every year continued to perform better than we had expected.
So positive in every one of those years.
In 2010 we did see...
Bill said to me yesterday and make sure you still believe this that if you look back to '02 the current expected loss outcome in each of the year '02 through '09 is currently lower than the original estimate at the time we made it.
Better.
Lower loss ratio better result right.
'02 through '09.
So in 2010 we did see some continuation of the increase in late reported claims that we discussed in the second quarter.
And we believe this is really a direct result of the impact of the great recession on workers comp claim reporting patterns.
And so the 2010 year was out of pattern.
But overall all years including 2010 we continue to have positive development on our overall workers comp book.
The impact of all of that is fully reflected in not just 2010 but rolled into how we look at 2011 and what we booked there.
And most importantly is completely rolled into our pricing the products today.
And given the pricing improvements that we've gotten we feel good about the returns and the profitability levels of the comp business we're writing today.
Now as Bill said before it's a state-by-state game and very very granularly managed.
And I've got a couple of other facts that I think would be helpful.
First the magnitude of the 2010 I'll call it excess claim activity to put a number on it it was under $100 million after-tax.
That's the -- that's the magnitude of that change.
And again what we see -- everything that we see tells us that those were occurring to dates incidents in '10 that didn't manifest themselves until 2011.
That's an unusual dynamic and something we haven't seen before.
Maybe it's a function of the economy and how people feel about job security and whether they raise their hands or not.
And again to Brian's point we've rolled that forward into the 2011 loss estimate book that fully and are currently incorporating that into our 2012 estimate for pricing and reserving.
And this is -- I think it's important because it will again help quantify it.
The combination of the rate gains and the loss trends and the positives and negatives and everything else our estimate of that allocated return on capital measure that we use to measure the profitability of the products in workers’ comp all-in now is low double digits.
It's low double digits.
So it's I think it's helpful to put a perspective on what we saw.
Now our view on that 2010 development is that it's more I'll call it timing rather than a permanent change.
And of course we'll see whether that's the case or not.
To get back to your other question about -- and of course you all know this you're sophisticated analyst you get it.
The issue of how one company reports versus another.
The critical element in all this is what did the company generally assumed? And so whatever experience we have in the loss arena is sort of one thing.
But what original assumptions were made is a critical element in determining the embedded health of the business and I'd come back to the ‘02 to '09 period as at least indicative of the way we view the line.
Importantly severity remains as expected that's an important element so the actual inflation dynamic there is not an issue.
And lastly and again this just speaks to the mechanics of the business and I think the integrity of the process here the delta the change that we had assumed from the '10 into the '11 year that turned out to be a good -- at least so far remains a good assumption.
The base of your [indiscernible] change some but the delta into '11 that we had anticipated turned out to be at least so far consistent.
So a tiny bit of a complicated story but you've got all the news.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions here.
One thing you haven't talked about for a little while is the direct initiative.
You mentioned and it looked like in the release about 80 basis points on a combined ratio which something about $0.30 a share if my math is right.
Clearly more significant than it was as a percentage of earnings when you launched it.
Just kind of what do you look at in the development of that business to let you know that you're creating value and that you're hitting your objective so that it eventually starts to bring in earnings as opposed create that pressure? And just one follow-up.
I'll let Doreen and Greg answer as well but I picked -- the one element that we continue to work on from an operational dynamic is we're getting pretty good at getting people through the quote process and getting quotes out.
And our next step is to do better.
Next step we're working on more than anything else right now is to do better in converting those quotes into actual sales.
And it's not immediately apparent to us that it's a function of price although it won't surprise any of you.
If you listen to all the ads the comment is those who switched saved whatever the number is $400.
No great shock.
$400 no great shock if you quote someone $400 more than they're currently paid the likelihood of switching is actually pretty low.
So to comment price is not an insignificant element there.
We have a -- I don't know exactly what to call it but we have a conversion curve.
We know -- relative to at least what the customer discloses to us their current prices is we know how far either plus or minus to that mark we -- in a large number of accounts how close we need to be to convert.
But we've got more work to do in the conversion process so that the dollars that we're spending in the media -- and we're not spending nearly what anyone else and the big players but to maximize that investment just to get more of the quotes converted into sales.
So that's our dynamic.
Some of it is we suspect I'll say reputational.
I think there are other companies that have as a result of doing this for years found a reputation for being less expensive.
Whether that's true or not is a whole other question but they've seen to have earned a reputation for it.
And we have to continue to build a reputation dynamic around the value proposition that we give.
We're never going to be great at selling half a coverage sandwich which $6.
We're not comfortable selling half the sandwich for $3.10.
That's just certainly not that who we are culturally.
We're much more comfortable providing customers with the coverage they need rather than the dynamic of how much they can afford.
That's just not us.
So we're going to keep working at this and we got our fingers crossed but we're well on our way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a little bit more on workers comp.
Just the premium line was pretty bumpy during the year.
I'm just curious.
Is that a result of pure seasonality? Is that a result of maybe some change in the competitive dynamic or just the market itself or any strategic change on your end? It's actually more just pricing and audit premium running through the numbers.
So a decent piece of that is movement of the underlying exposure of the accounts and what payrolls have been and how those have moved up.
And especially when compared to a year ago when many comp accounts had some fairly significant return premium dynamic.
So you're going from a return premium environment to an audit premium plus environment and that's probably the biggest single driver of the movement in that line.
And from our perspective it's a good thing.
Yes.
Oh yes that's definitely true.
Research Division</strong> So it's not initially a policy count it's more of a exposure per unit? Yes.
Payrolls.
The initial premium is based on an estimate.
We're coming down the road.
When the policy expires we do an audit.
If the actual payroll was less than had originally been disclosed to us then we have a return on premium if the payroll turns out to be more than what it was originally disclosed to us we have an additional billing during the sort of depths of that great recession we were in the return of premium arena as customers shed payrolls far more aggressively than they have anticipated they would.
And now they reached the stage where they were flattening out.
That brought the audit premium back to 0 and have been growing modestly.
And so what we're seeing again is now a change into the build arena of audit premium.
Research Division</strong> I mean any change in the competitive dynamic just over a year just in the larger case market that you've noticed? This is Bill Cunningham.
Nothing discernible.
I mean in a large national...
When you say large let's make sure...
You're talking large national accounts less responsive business? Research Division</strong> Like your commercial accounts business not the small not the Select or Select Express not the small and the commercial but kind of the down-the-middle commercial accounts business.
I would just say over the course of the last 12 months some of the crack that you've described and we have seen competitors pushing price and moving price in another direction in a number of states that we compete with them.
The next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker Deutsche Bank.
I'm sorry let me -- before I could take that question let me just -- because Bill used words that we understand here internally.
I think what he was saying -- you should correct me if I'm wrong but I think what you're saying is when you say cracks what you're seeing is other competitors struggling with workers comp line and not an insignificant increase in rates by other competitors as well.
We never deal with other competitors.
We get anecdotal observations from agents.
But that's what Bill is speaking about that we're particularly in the states that have been more challenging from a loss trend environment where we see other -- we understand again trying to -- we never talk you never talk with other competitors about rates in any way but we see them reaching for rate as well in that environment.
That's what our comment was.
Okay.
Next question -- Josh Shanker question please.
Research Division</strong> During the Goldman Sachs Financial Service Conference Call you dissuaded investors from taking a look at Schedule P.
Obviously now we're going to look at that.
But maybe you know more than we do and if you can walk the math on why our look Schedule P would lead us to the wrong answers and maybe if you can talk about what your reserve are going to look like when we do that following all of the 2011 numbers? First I don't think we ever dissuaded anybody from looking at the Schedule P.
I just -- go back to that Goldman Sachs conference and we were talking about the complexity of making I'll call it somewhat simplistic assumptions based upon kind of overall views.
But our Schedule P is going to reveal the things that Brian shared with you earlier.
You're going to see the 2010 accident year for workers comp had more claim frequency than we originally anticipated.
You're going to see in the auto liability line particularly I guess not particularly but commercial auto for sure is going to see 10 9 and -- 9 and 10? A tiny bit in 8 but mostly 9 and 10.
9 and 10.
And I think those are going to be the things that you'll see that -- and that's why we're providing the explanation here today so that people understand what it is they'll be looking at when they see it.
Research Division</strong> And then so far from what you're seeing looking at the beginning of the year of 2011 to where you are today those things you're seeing in 2010 have sort of reverted to the mean are not showing up this year? Well we booked the change into 2011 first of all.
In other words the base year what we do we develop loss estimates for a given year.
We started out with the immediate preceding year.
We'll make adjustments for frequency and severity that we anticipate.
So when 2010 had that $94 million after-tax increase in claim activity that I spoke about we obviously rolled that forward into our 2011 loss estimate and that's been booked and recorded.
As we look to 2012 we obviously are starting out with the base again.
But now you're asking the complicated question of that $94 million in that year how much is a timing difference that we see just from one year to the next and how much is permanent difference? But we certainly are going into 2012 eyes wide open with respect to the 2010 accident year and what its effect was.
That gets me back to my comment earlier that the estimated return on allocated capital for comp broadly speaking.
I mean before [ph] across the whole book is at the moment in the low double-digit range so it's -- and that's incorporating that 2010 development into that.
And if I could add a couple of things.
I mean there's a story line that you have to follow in our Q's where we're describing things that are taking place each quarter some of which as Jay said impact us as we look at the business going forward.
And that's when we talk about base year movement and our adjustments for current year loss picks and ultimate results for a particular year.
There are other things that take place that get reflected in Schedule P that don't impact the numbers going forward.
So if you look at some of the property line as an example what you'll see is disclosure in our 10-Qs talking about some development that's taking place one that comes to mind were the Arizona hail storms that impacted us from 2010 where we made loss estimates associated with what we have been seeing.
And then in 2011 saw a further development on those losses that get reflected in our property lines.
Those are losses that are episodic and therefore don't impact us when it comes to looking at loss fix.
So we say it's complicated those are the kind of things that we're talking about.
The granularity of information that we go through to make a determination number one are our reserves fairly stated at the end of the quarter which are at always best estimate.
And then two what do this information tells us about the past as well as the future and then trying to very granularly and thoughtfully build those into our ongoing analysis.
The important point I think we made the important point on the Goldman Sachs Day was that there seems to be a view somehow that current year reserve adequacy is a function of late.
And that concept is just foreign to us.
We don't understand it actually.
We make estimates of losses and we make those estimates of losses frequency severity and so the notion that we would not be making our best estimate because a couple of years ago rate was more challenged relative to 5 years ago when it was less challenged.
It was just completely foreign to us.
We don't get that.
So to us at least and I'm speaking just for Travelers the way we establish loss reserves are independent of whatever the rate is that's being very granularly determined and they are constantly being reviewed by actuaries internally.
And you've heard us say when we make re-adjustments to current year loss picks current year loss picks not prior year it's because we're seeing activity either up or down that was different from what we had originally expected that loss activity to be so that was the comment.
By all means dig into Scheduled P.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate and thank you very granular answers.
Just a quick numbers question.
Brian went through the math on personal auto.
What is the run rate for this U.S.
thing for annual cats per year in the loss ratio normalized? In auto? Research Division</strong> You said you were targeting 96.
You got to 98.5 but that doesn't include any normalized cats.
So I just want to also get that part.
I think at least maybe a bit.
No.
That -- go ahead answer the question.
Yes Josh.
It leads us [indiscernible] really insignificant for the auto side and put this in normal expectation.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One just to start clarifying.
Your 99.5 to 98.5 run rate was that  Personal Auto Or Personal Insurance? That was Personal Auto and the delta is the 1 point of pretty clearly identifiable weather-related activity above that pretty low normal activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
I just wanted to make sure I heard that right.
And then within FTI obviously you've been exiting the personal lines of business in Ireland.
You talked about that from a premium standpoint.
Just curious whether or not that exit is having any positive impact on the loss ratio and if so how much.
I don't know the exact number.
It should have a positive impact but it will be pretty small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of timing wise how far are we -- I mean my sense is there might be one more quarter of kind of cycling through.
Is that right in terms of timing? Maybe 2 but I think the overall personal lines of premium in 2011 was about $24 million $25 million.
It's pretty small and should tell us in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess a bigger question how customers are adapting to the rate increases? Obviously we know exposures are up on an underlying basis with the economy.
Which puts some purchase -- price pressure at least dollar spend pressure on customers who are raising rates on top of that.
Are you seeing customers either change the limits they're buying? And I recognize not all your customers may have the flexibility to do so but are you seeing any change in buying behavior? Either limits deductibles or other things clients are dealing to try to mitigate kind of the dollar impact on them? This is Bill Cunningham.
I would say we're not seeing any meaningful change in the commercial space on terms of conditions either limits or deductibles.
Where we are seeing changes in deductibles would be on the larger property end in wind exposed areas and that would on the margin but I would say across the board clients are opting more for the price increase than a deductible increase.
But again that's largely anecdotal.
But the numbers would support that it's more about the price and less about the terms and condition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then can you just help on a written basis connect the dots between what you reported for rate increases exposure increases in Business Insurance relative to what we're actually seeing show up on the net line in terms of written premium increases? I mean I get retentions down but it doesn't seem to be down relative to the positive push from those 2 things to explain kind of the delta.
It's a retention and I would say new business dynamic the new business being off of it.
I'm not sure I got the question there Matt.
I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Well based on your chart it looks like you're saying Business Insurance pricing are up 6%.
It looks like based on your chart you're showing exposure growth of somewhere between 2% and 4% which would make the range 8% to 10%.
Retention's down 4% so that takes that to 4% to 6%.
And I get new business is down a little bit but that feels more like 100 bps so I would net-net expected better growth.
Okay.
So you got audit premium spread.
Why don't you...
Research Division</strong> That was a positive delta year-on-year too though.
Yes.
Right.
So if you're trying to reconcile written premium year-over-year you've got the rate as a big improvement on a full year basis about 5 points.
You got 2.5 points of exposure.
You got retention down 5 points plus you've also got new retention business a change in new business.
The biggest driver offsetting the price gains is retention in new business the quarter.
And then you've got audit premium swinging from negative to positives.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll follow up offline because I'm not exactly following.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the colors and disclosure on the reserve issues both in change.
And you really substantial disclosures in your third quarter stat filings which I think are better than a lot of your peers.
The one question I'd have basically the follow-up on Josh's conversation and all the sort of talking we've done about workers' comp and commercial and personal auto and the challenges there.
Recent past couple of quarters have seen a lot of releases from surety as well as I think disclosures on your third quarter regulatory filings suggests that the asset funds and the liability so claims made in occurrence are funding much of the recent reserve favorable development as well as -- it potentially sound like you're maybe a UA [ph] reclassification.
And I think we use the word episodic before I'm curious should investors be looking at these as the sorts of things that we should be plugging into our models for next year as favorable offsets to potentially sort of modest favorable development and going forward in the other lines where we're talking about potential challenges? This is Jay Benet.
We've answered this question a number of times in the past.
We as a management team have this very very robust processes each quarter to evaluate what our reserve changes look like and to come up with our best estimate of reserves.
We have no guidance.
We have no views that we would have either internally or to share externally as to how reserves are going to develop.
So I think you as an analyst can feel free to think of whatever patterns you've seen whatever you're hearing from other companies.
As Jay said it's all dependent upon what a company's assumptions are what the starting point is what are the loss ratios that they have at this point in time and how things are going to develop.
So one company's development can look a lot different than in other companies.
But I think you see our history you see what we've done in terms of putting up reserves in the past how those reserves have developed.
And as I said our view is we're always at best estimate and you can come up with whatever you view you think is appropriate.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's certainly fair and expected something like that.
Just in the context of sureties obviously sort of an episodic credit-related reserve and then the commentary you guys had suggested around the excess coverage which is related to favorable traditional environment over the past number of years.
And we're just wondering if we should look at this as kind of a onetime thing and maybe you've already answer that so...
We're always building in the current view as to how an environment has changed.
So if we have certain views of the toward environment let's say several years ago that we're driving a certain level of reserves and that sort of environment has improved to date we'd look at okay where is it today and we have some view as to where we think it might go in the future and that would be the basis upon which we reserve.
But what we don't do is we don't say gee there some continuum of improvement.
Let's book 1/4 of it now we'll book a quarter next quarter and we'll keep -- and keep going.
It's always based on facts and circumstances as they exist and it's the best estimate at that point in time.
And if you go back in time in our disclosures what you'll see is the description of what's generating positive development it's changed.
It's been this line or the other line or that year in property or liability or just -- it's a very big business.
We're making estimates for multi-billions of dollars of losses every given year and things just workout somewhat differently than we had originally expected.
But it's not as if there is a pattern there that somehow is reliable.
It's just changed over the years and different line show up at different times.
If we had -- as we said at the Goldman Sachs Day our goal is to get it right.
It's not to -- I know it feels good when you have that favorable reserve development in the period that it's reported but we're pricing product every day.
And if we're going to make the most of what we got either growing our business or recognizing lost trend or adjusting the only way we're going to make really thoughtful decisions really good ones is if we get it right.
So that's our goal.
Our goal is to get it right.
It's obviously better than -- everybody says favorable better than unfavorable.
But -- and maybe that's true at the moment but when we have favorable development that means that we over-costed our product in the year in which -- from the year it relates to and maybe we could have sold more if we had a different view of costs.
So we're very driven to try and get it right.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think that's right.
I personally grew up in business always thinking that the right answer is the right answer and if they could lead you to better decisions I think you guys obviously sort of do a good job of explaining but we shouldn't count on these things going forward.
And so I don't think there's any issues there.
If I could just ask one final numbers question.
We'd like to move on to the next question.
Thanks.
We kind of gave you your tip.
Our last question comes from the line of Cliff Gallant with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the investment portfolio.
Do you anticipate any changes in strategy? And can you comment on the outlook for the non-fixed income portion of the portfolio please? Well no changes in strategy.
We have a strategy which we think accommodates a very wide range of conditions.
In terms of the outlook for the portfolio am I allowed to give an outlook? Well we sort of did.
Someone else had asked about the non-fixed income...
Well that was what we expected on an ongoing basis.
I think I'm being asked for an outlook for the quarter.
So the question is -- I guess typically we don't an outlook for the quarter.
That was it? Yes thank you.
Okay.
Well thank you for joining the call.
We appreciate the time given that we went a bit over.
But if you have any further questions please contact myself or Andrew Hersom in the IR department.
Thanks and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Thursday April 19 2012.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Tina.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our first quarter 2012 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks and responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We're pleased to report a very strong start to 2012 driven by solid underwriting as well as investment results.
In the quarter we produced net income of $806 million or $2.02 per share and generated a 13.1% return on equity and a 14.7% operating return on equity.
Even excluding the impact of net favorable prior-year development which states the returns on an absolute year basis the corresponding percentages are 9.9% and 11.1%.
Net income of $806 million compares to $839 million last year but last year included a $104 million benefit from the favorable resolution of prior-year tax matters.
As we've shared with you previously our current operating focus is simple and on course.
Given the potential for continued severe weather in the United States as well as the outlook for continued low interest rates we remain committed to improving our profitability by actively but selectively seeking price increases and improved terms and conditions on the products we sell.
In Business Insurance we continued to achieve improved pricing.
Renewal rate change in the quarter was a positive 8% up from 6% in the fourth quarter of 2011 while retention remained stable.
Importantly we believe that we differentiate ourselves from many in the marketplace by not taking a "one size fits all" approach to pricing.
In our individual underwriting businesses each customer's needs characteristics geographies and risk and loss profile is different and as such each transaction is analyzed and priced separately.
In Select Accounts analyzing the returns we earn from our insured’s industry segment in conjunction with the individual insured characteristics is critical to success.
We continue to leverage what we believe is industry-leading data and analytics to help us optimize rate and retention that is achieving higher retentions on our best customer relationships while simultaneously identifying the walk away point for our least-profitable relationships.
This differentiation is best evidenced by an analysis of rate and retention by historical loss ratio performance that Brian will share with you later.
We're very pleased how we're executing in the field and this analysis summarize and demonstrates the effectiveness of our analytics and the thoughtful way we're approaching business pricing.
In our Personal Insurance segment we continue to take the necessary actions to increase returns which include improved pricing terms and conditions.
Renewal price change in the quarter improved in automobile and Homeowners to 4% and 10% respectively.
In many states we have implemented higher deductibles and changes to underwriting terms and conditions predominantly for new business.
And while Personal Insurance new business in these states has been and may continue to be impacted for some time following these changes we are convinced we are on the right course.
I want to take just a moment to acknowledge the work our financial professional and international groups have done in recent years.
Within FP&amp;II there are numerous businesses and product lines each with its own individual story but in the aggregate we recorded a 24% improvement in profitability quarter-over-quarter and are more comfortable with our risk profile and better positioned for opportunity in our international business than we have been in the past.
Additionally the fact that our surety and Management Liability businesses have performed as well as they have is a real testament to risk management scale especially given the economic environment over the last several years.
The solid work these teams have done and continue to do is evidenced in their strong results.
Lastly I'm also pleased to report that our Board of Directors approved a 12% increase in the company's quarterly dividend raising it to $0.46 per share.
This brings our annual yield based on last night's closing price up to 3.1% from 2.8%.
Since the merger of St.
Paul and Travelers in 2004 the dividend has increased each year and over this time period has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 10%.
As always we remain committed to returning excess capital to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
I would characterize our first quarter results as being very strong and as having the following attributes: fixed income investment returns that were in line with our expectations; non-fixed income investment returns that benefited from strong equity market performance to the end of the quarter; underlying underwriting results that benefited from the significant price increases we have been achieving in recent months as well as growth in exposures and favorable audit premium adjustments; weather-related losses that were more or less within our expectations; and a relatively high level of net favorable prior-year reserve development.
Brian is going to provide comments on our underwriting results but before he does let me say a few words about our reserves and their development.
The strength of our reserves is evidenced by the net favorable prior-year reserve development we continue to experience: $200 million after tax in the first quarter up from $155 million in last year's first quarter.
While each segment once again reported net favorable prior-year reserve development the Business Insurance segment was responsible for $162 million or approximately 80% of the total.
BI's net favorable prior-year reserve development was driven by better-than-expected loss experience in general liability for the 2004 through 2009 accident years and commercial property for the 2010 accident year.
Partially offsetting these favorable adjustments was the strengthening of our commercial auto reserves for the 2011 accident year due to higher-than-expected frequency and severity.
Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance contributed net favorable prior-year reserve development of $31 million after tax in the quarter a little higher than last year's first quarter primarily due to the better-than-expected loss experience in our surety business within Bond &amp; Financial Products for the 2006 through 2008 accident years as well as in several lines of business in Canada and Lloyd's.
Turning to financial strength indicators.
All remain in excellent shape.
First quarter operating cash flows were very strong at $814 million a holding company liquidity of $2.2 billion and all of our capital ratios ended the quarter at or better than their target levels.
Net unrealized investment gains which were $4.35 billion at the end of the quarter or $2.8 billion after tax decreased only slightly from year end entirely due to movements in interest rates and credit spreads while book value per share rose to $63.81 2% higher than the beginning of the year and 7% higher than a year ago.
And finally as always we remain fully committed to identifying and returning excess capital to our shareholders.
During the quarter we returned a little over $500 million to our shareholders through common stock repurchases of $350 million and dividends of $162 million.
Brian is now going to provide further commentary on our underwriting results.
Thanks Jay.
A great quarter on many levels.
And from an underwriting perspective our GAAP combined ratio of 92.2% was 2.5 points better than 2011 and adjusting for cats and prior-year reserve development the combined was 94.6% or 1.1 points better than 2011.
So a really good start to the year.
In Business Insurance we are extremely pleased with our results this quarter.
Operating income of $612 million was up slightly from a very good quarter last year which included a $76 million tax benefit.
Pricing continued to be very strong with renewal premium change of 9% that included pure rate increases of 8%.
Importantly the improved rate that we achieved was broad based with rate increases in all product lines between 6 and 9 points with the workers comp and auto lines at the top end of that range.
Net written premiums were up year-over-year driven by these pricing gains as well as solid exposure growth and audit premiums.
By line the growth was driven by workers compensation again resulting from price and exposure increases.
For your reference Page 9 of the webcast shows the reconciliation of net written premiums quarter-over-quarter and we believe this speaks to a picture of improved profitability on the business.
Retentions remained solid up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by improvements in commercial accounts.
As you can see on Slide 11 Select Accounts retention has declined from 81% in the first quarter of 2011 to 75% in the current quarter.
As we have discussed many times our select business includes Select Express the smaller-account-sized business; and Select Plus the larger individually underwritten accounts.
In Express retention has come down modestly and is currently at 78%.
In Plus retention is down much more significantly to 71%.
In the Plus business based on our view of account and segment profitability the competition has continued to price business very aggressively and at returns we do not consider acceptable.
Accordingly our retention is the result of our active and very deliberate strategy to seek the appropriate price for each account and we are very comfortable with this volume and profitability trade-off.
So stepping back to rate and retention for all of Business Insurance we're very pleased with the results but importantly we're also very focused on how we got to those results.
By that I mean did we get the rate increases where needed? And did we retain our best business? An example of how we manage this approach is on Slide 14 which shows our rate change and retention data for commercial accounts segmented by the individual accounts' long-term loss ratio.
So the bar on the left represents our best-performing business accounts with long-term loss ratios of less than 60% and the bar on the right represents our worst-performing accounts with long-term loss ratios exceeding 90%.
You can see that the retention ratio was stronger for the better accounts and the rate change is dramatically higher on the poorer-performing accounts.
I want to emphasize 2 points.
First our actual pricing and underwriting decisions are made on individual accounts.
Secondly that this is -- this exhibit presents summarized data and we actually measure and manage our performance on a much more granular level: by business by product line by industry and by geography.
And the conclusion is we feel great about how we're executing at those levels.
Turning to loss trend.
Across Business Insurance we are seeing loss inflation at about 4% overall which is consistent with our expectations.
As with the rate story by line there's a pretty tight range around that number with workers comp and auto slightly above the average.
Looking specifically at workers comp the frequency increase we talked to you about in prior quarters has stabilized.
And in commercial auto we continue to see a modest pressure in bodily injury severity and in physical damage frequency and severity.
So in closing on Business Insurance a critical takeaway: In the quarter the earned impact of our pricing actions exceeded our current estimate of the quarter's loss trend by about 50 basis points.
And this is obviously a step in the right direction.
In the Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment we had another very strong quarter with operating income of $149 million up 24% from the prior year.
The improvement is due to lower level of cat losses as well as improved underlying margins in our international business where we believe underwriting initiatives have resulted in a better balance of risk and reward.
Looking at production Management Liability net written premiums were up 7% year-over-year as retention levels and renewal premium gains were at their highest levels in several years and new business volume was also strong.
Management Liability is an area where we've made significant investments in technology and analytics and the increased volume we are seeing shows that those investments are paying off.
In addition we are seeing the most growth in our more profitable lines.
In surety volumes continued to be impacted by decreased construction spending while in international net written premiums were down $8 million or 3% reflecting the impact of our decision to exit the personal lines business in Ireland as well as an increase in ceded premium year-over-year.
So all in a very strong quarter for the segment.
In Personal Insurance first quarter operating income excluding cats and prior-year development was $176 million up 5% from the first quarter of 2011.
The GAAP combined ratio also excluding cats and prior year was 92.3% and excluding the impact of the direct-to-consumer initiative 90.3%.
So the underlying profitability the agency business was very solid.
Looking at production.
In Agency Auto renewal premium change was 4% up 1 point from the fourth quarter and retention remained strong at 83%.
In agency property we also saw improved pricing with renewal premium change of 10% up from 8% in the fourth quarter along with continued strong retention.
In both lines new business volumes have been impacted by our pricing and underwriting actions.
Loss trends in home have remained within our expectations while in auto we continued to see severity pressures that we disclosed last quarter with a slight uptick in physical damage lines.
Given the desire to improve auto margins that we discussed last quarter and the possibly of continued unusual weather patterns we will continue to take the actions necessary to improve profitability in both auto and Homeowners.
We've filed for additional rate increases in both products in a number of states.
And in Homeowners we've also continued to implement underwriting changes along with changes in terms and conditions such as higher deductibles.
As with Business Insurance we continually measure the balance between profitability and growth in a very granular way and we remain very comfortable with our actions.
With that I'll open it for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Mike Zaremski of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on insurance pricing levels.
I know no one said that they've peaked but they clearly are in excess of loss cost trends in most lines.
Are you guys still seeing momentum there? And can you comment on Management Liability? Rates increased 4% there do you think there's momentum in that specific line of business? Yes Mike so this is Brian MacLean.
I'll start off.
And speaking specifically to Business Insurance I'd start by emphasizing and repeating what we just said that we feel good about where the market was this past quarter.
And the 8% rate 9% total price and the retention levels we're getting and specifically where we're getting it by account and by type of business we felt good about.
Our position in the marketplace right now as we move forward is we're not changing our strategy at all.
We're looking to continue to prove -- improve our returns.
You are absolutely right that we're now at a point where we're earning in something in excess of our current view of loss trends.
And we don't make long-term predictions on the market but we do have pretty good visibility into what's going to happen 60 to 90 days out.
We're obviously quoting business out there and we have a decent view into April.
And so we feel good about what we're seeing in the second quarter and from a written basis feel that the momentum is somewhat continuing.
So we feel very good about where we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly in regards to workers comp frequency stabilizing could you comment on what level it's -- has stabilized at? I don't know if we've specifically disclosed it but it's...
Research Division</strong> Would you say it's at a level that's going down in terms of the trend the absolute level of frequency? This is Jay Benet.
I think in the fourth quarter we've seen it level out.
And we really haven't seen a change in the first quarter relative to what we have been seeing so it's running within our expectations.
Nothing has really changed.
Yes I mean it's pretty close to 0 is what we're seeing and it's very stable.
Research Division</strong> And have rates pricing has that continued to improve on that line? Yes.
I mean we've -- workers comp is at the highest end of the price increases we're getting and we feel good about what we've been able to do there.
On the Management Liability side Alan...
Mike it's Alan Schnitzer.
You asked about Management Liability pricing as well.
And you mentioned before the pricing is actually up 2.
Overall RPC is up 4 and 1/2 of that's rate and 1/2 of it's exposure.
We are -- it is our strategy to continue to try to get rate in those lines where we think we need it.
And just based on our feel for the market and what we're doing 30 60 90 days out we think there's some room for that.
Our next question comes from Amit Kumar of Macquarie Group.
The first question is on the discussion on retentions.
Obviously the retentions have trended down successively every quarter.
And I'm just wondering if you keep on pushing rates do we get to somewhat of a low-70s retention number as we approach end of 2012? Or do you think that the retentions numbers are exhibiting some signs of stabilizing going forward? Yes so a couple responses to that.
This is Brian.
I'll start and then -- let me start by saying that historically when we look at retentions in our core Business Insurance at an 80% level with the right execution and the right analytics we feel that -- as a matter of fact we don't have any doubt that we can perform very well at an 80% retention.
We had said consistently going back a year or so ago when we were running at 84 85s that those were at historical high levels and we did not expect to continue to have the business there.
So we feel pretty good about where we are today from a retention perspective.
As you pointed out quarter-over-quarter it went up a blip so fundamentally stable where it is.
The other thing I would emphasize back to that exhibit we showed in the webcast: We look really hard at as retentions move up or down why they are moving up or down.
And to state the obvious but it's -- the execution on this is critical.
If we're retaining our best business and retention is softening in the weaker business because the market -- because we can't get the price increases that we think we need we're going to be perfectly fine with that trade-off.
So we don't sit here with a magic number and say if it gets to 75 we're at a panic level.
If -- whatever.
It's really about the composition of what's going on inside of it.
And this is Jay Fishman.
I'd just add 2 quick comments.
First just to clarify in Business Insurance the retention was actually stable dead on first quarter to fourth quarter.
So sequentially there that was actually a tiny bit up.
It rounds to a flat number but it was actually the tiniest bit up.
And so sequentially it is right on.
And I'd point also to Brian's comments about the Plus business.
There's no question that if we had a different strategy in Select Plus the retention could be 5 6 7 points higher but our analysis suggests that that's not the way to create long-term value.
And a lot of -- in many of these market segments in fact in most it's an active decision not a passive reaction.
We make the decision of the price-retention trade-off all the time.
And the slide that Brian showed that ties loss ratios to retention in rate is absolutely critical in the analysis particularly as you get into a granular level.
And we actually -- if you do some quick arithmetic on that slide what you'll see is the summary of that slide shows an 18-point rate increase against accounts with a historical loss ratio or long-term loss ratio in excess of 90%.
That -- the result the arithmetic result of that is a 14% decline not a 14-point decline but a 14% decline in the actual loss ratio.
I mean it's meaningful.
So it's -- as you have the analytics and the ability to look at your book of business just as granularly as we do we tend to view the retention as a result of thoughtful well-executed strategies not a target or a byproduct that's in effect for us -- on us.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Just one other question and this is a follow-up to the prior question.
In terms of California comp you mentioned that -- I'm sorry the workers comp line you said that the rates were at the highest end of the range.
And I couldn't quite discern what exactly the number was what you were alluding to what exactly that number is.
I think you mentioned the loss costs were 4%.
Just trying to understand the delta between pricing and loss cost.
And if I understand correctly what you were suggesting in the prior answer was that probably the way you look at it 2010 was the peak in terms of loss cost.
And I know you've discussed that in the past too.
So let me do a couple things and I'll repeat some of the stuff just to make it clear.
We said 8 points of rate increase between 6 and 9 by line and comp was at the high end of that.
So -- and then on the loss costs I said 4% across all of BI with a relatively tight band by product line around that.
And comp is at the high end of that.
I mean comp and auto were the 2 lines where we're seeing the most loss pressure and we're seeing the highest rate increases.
So we think there's rational behavior there.
And what Brian gave you in rate just a moment ago was the written rate increase.
And importantly he shared with you that the earned effect of the pricing strategy not just rate but that portion of exposure that acts like rate actually had an earned impact in the quarter of approximately 50 basis points higher than the -- than our current estimate of loss trend.
Right.
Now you made a comment and I wasn't quite sure where you were going but that we implied that the fourth quarter was kind of the peak of...
No the 2010.
2010 was the peak in terms of loss trend.
[indiscernible] Amit this is Gabby.
When Brian said the question we had been asked was workers comp frequency which we were saying was essentially flat.
But certainly that is never implying that workers comp loss costs are flat.
Obviously we've always talked about the severity dynamics to it.
So is it still going up overall? Or you think that it's stabilized at this level? Well the question is what is -- that you're asking is we're not exactly sure what you mean by it leveling.
Our -- when you add in frequency and severity and you look at workers compensation -- and I'll say this without checking all the facts but Gabby can.
I think in virtually every year that it's a net positive inflation rate on loss costs that even if severity -- even if frequency has been down our assumption about the combination of medical inflation and indemnity inflation both more than offset whatever the underlying assumption has been even in a declining frequency arena.
So our analysis always is that loss costs are always rising year-to-year.
Right.
And then so the pieces we're giving...
As we've already [ph] said.
Sometimes we get favorable reserve development years later and lots of you comment on that where our initial loss estimates turned out to be way too high where in one year too low and it obviously changes.
But as we initially set them we're always contemplating an increase in the inflation dynamic on a combined basis.
And I'll repeat the pieces we had given you and I think they can get you pretty close.
I mean we just said frequency was about 0 across all of BI.
Frequency Plus severity is about 4% and comp's a little bit above that.
So that I think gives you the pieces yes.
And our next question comes from Greg Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just ask about the buyback and the dividends.
A very nice increase in the dividend in the quarter but it looks to me like you -- the combined $500 million in buybacks and dividends was less than operating income.
And I just wanted to -- and perhaps you said it in your commentary but I just want to just reassess what is the guidance for capital management going forward? Is it 100% of operating income to be returned to shareholders? Yes this is Jay Benet.
We try to be as clear as we can about this in our 10-Q.
So let me just reiterate a couple of points.
First of all just in terms of the magnitude in the first quarter we did return as I said a little over $500 million $350 million in the form of repurchases the rest in terms of dividends.
Obviously we don't know the actual amount of earnings in a quarter until the quarter is over so we are buying back our shares during the quarter based on some presumption of where we'll be.
I'll remind you that and this is what is written in the Q the combination of dividends and share repurchases isn't likely to exceed the income for the year.
And the share repurchases are also going to depend on a variety of factors.
There are capital needs that we have as we grow our business.
Maintaining capital levels commensurate with ratings.
We do buybacks on the basis of having excess cash available.
So we take into account pension funding needs and other corporate needs.
So there's lots of things that go into it.
And I wouldn't read from any particular quarter the earnings of the quarter versus the amount of the share repurchases as indicative of much of anything at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then shifting gears on the core margin side excellent trends.
Everything you're saying is sort of playing out in the reported numbers.
The one thing I'm trying to tie though Brian is you mentioned earned premium is ahead of losses -- loss trend by 50 basis points in Business Insurance.
And yet if we're doing our math right it looks to me like the core margin for that specific unit actually deteriorated by 30 bps year-over-year which is -- points to a very near-term inflection point for that division importantly.
And so I'm trying to tie the "earned premium to loss" commentary with the reported number.
And I guess the question will be is there a lag? Or how should we be thinking about that in the models? And I assume when you say you're looking at the reported -- if I look at the x cats x prior-year development combined ratio for Business Insurance it was 96.4%.
A year ago in the first quarter it was 96% but importantly for the full year of 2011 it was 97.9%.
So we've got some pretty significant improvement: It's come down 4 consecutive quarters.
With all of that said in any given quarter there's going to be a lot of stuff that's going to go into the combined ratio that when I talk about that core margin expansion I'm not talking about unusual weather I would -- so I'd be taking out favorable or unfavorable weather large losses mix of business changes.
We could be moving something in the accident year that's going to distort that given quarter's GAAP combined ratio.
So I think in a specific quarter there can be a lot going on.
Obviously as we go forward we're going to speak to those things.
But the core underlying margins showed some improvement in the quarter and bodes well for the future.
And while we -- Greg this is Jay.
Thanks for the question.
It -- while we don't -- certainly don't want to make predictions about rates or anything else the one thing that is quite just arithmetic and quite predictable is the effect of written rate because you can go back you take 1/12 of the previous month plus 1/12 of the month before that and 1/12 of the month before that and you calculate the rate dynamic and you can actually calculate the rate impact on premium the earned rate impact.
Now there's a portion that's not nearly as visible to outsiders.
There's a portion of exposure that really looks like rate.
It doesn't have loss cost associated with it a change in valuation on a property.
So there are elements so we very granularly go through that.
And so on the presumption that that exposure piece stays the same quarter to quarter what we can say with reasonable assurance because things would have to change so dramatically is to be unlikely is that the earned rate impact in the second quarter earned rate will be higher than the first.
That's pretty ascertainable at this point.
We don't know obviously what our second quarter view of loss trend is and so it's very difficult to make predictions and feel like you're doing it in any substantive way but the earned rate impact is really quite discernible.
Our next question comes from Keith Walsh of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the slides on retention.
Very helpful in the pack.
Just getting back to Jay Fishman's comments earlier on Slide 14.
Can you talk a little bit about the elasticity of retention and the trade-off between raising rates on the really good loss ratio business that looks like it's sub-60 versus keeping more of it retaining more and maybe not raising rate as much? Yes that's -- it's -- actually it's a very good question and it really gets to the core of how we execute in the marketplace.
The -- first in its most simplistic form -- and you all are knowledgeable enough about our industry to understand it: If you get 1 point of rate 85% of that I'm taking 15 points of commissions and taxes direct costs if you will fall right to the pretax line.
So 1 point of rate is really quite powerful from a profitably standpoint.
Now 1 point of retention has dramatically lower impact on profitability because you have all the loss costs associated with it.
So you have the variable cost that goes up but you also have the direct loss cost that goes with it.
So it's quite easy to say that 1 point of rate is worth a multiple 5x.
And I'm guessing at that number sitting here this morning but 5x 1 point of retention.
Now the -- that theory is good until your last account.
At some point it breaks down.
But as we sit here looking at 1 point of rate on the margin versus 1 point of retention that's a really easy call as long as we're being thoughtful about how it's executed.
Now I'm going to get back to the slide you referenced.
One of the reasons why we don't at all set a corporate mandate for pricing -- and there are some we believe companies that do.
They say "You've got to get x percent on a renewal or you can't renew it." Well what happens is you'll lose your best accounts because they don't need the x percent of rate.
And in your least-profitable accounts you get the x and it needed twice x.
And so while it looks initially like you've done good work the fact is you've got underlying real adverse selection working against you.
So first on the margin when you're in an improving profitably dynamic that point of rate versus the point of retention is just such an easy call.
On the marginal dynamic that's an easy one.
And -- but importantly the ability to execute and understand where one draws the line on that chart is just critical to the actual improvement in profitability.
Otherwise you're going to have a whole series of operating dynamics that are going to look great but unfortunately it's never really going to translate into improved profitability.
So it's the combination of recognizing the trade-off between rate and retention which again on the margin is an easy one but executing it based upon the history of the account.
I'd make one other point with respect to that chart because it's really an important one and it can get lost.
This is the long-term loss ratio.
So if we -- this is the actual experience of an account up to as much as 7 years if we have the account that long because we also understand the premise that an account can be terrific performing over 2 3 4 5 years and then have an unusual loss an unusual fire.
And you certainly don't want to react dramatically to one insured loss.
We're in the insurance business we anticipate losses.
So it's not -- we're not looking at a 12-month loss performance here because again that would give you a potentially very adverse effect as well.
This -- analytics here enable us to look at the long-term profitability of an individual account.
I just want to emphasize.
This is Brian again.
One other thing I made in my comments generally but I think it's really important to understand who we are and why we think we can perform the way we do in the industry.
The exhibit that we've got is a very simplified view of how we actually manage this.
So what we actually use in our operation doesn't just have 3 segments it has at least 5 by each of our business.
So we've got our business separated by quintiles and it's got the long-term combined loss ratio plus a bunch of other factors.
So we're not just looking at the loss experience of the account.
We're looking at a lot of other things.
And we're looking at that by individual business by industry by geography.
And believe me when we see the numbers come out we go "Okay they look okay they don't look okay but let's really understand why." So your question again Jay said it is great that keeping the best business for the right reasons and taking the right actions on the more challenged business is what we have to do.
And at the end of the day that's going to result in numbers.
And if we did the right things we're going to be happy with what the numbers are.
And I -- while I can't prove this to you because I'm giving you back the reflection of conversations with agents and brokers -- we tend to forget about them in these conversations.
There's an agent or broker who represents every single account that we're dealing with here.
And that agent or broker understands the market deeply understands alternatives and choices and flexibility and in the end makes a recommendation to his client based upon the actions that we're taking.
One of the reasons and this just comes from conversation that agents continue to be supportive of the strategy here is that it's not being applied as a "one size fits all" dynamic.
When we sit down and have a conversation about an account it becomes apparent why we're having that conversation.
And we're not -- we talked earlier about never -- we're trying hard not to be disruptive to an agent's business or to our insurance business and that means getting granular enough to understand that the pricing actions fit the individual account and account strategy that you have.
And that's one of the reasons why agents can embrace it because they understand what we're doing and they understand the economics behind it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then the second question I just had on Slide 9 the new business number and the revenue roll-forward or the premium roll-forward of $423 million; retention really good keeping it stable.
It seems like this number is a little more challenged.
Does this speak to a more competitive market with lots of capacity for new business? And just how do you -- how does that intertwine with your view on expanding rates going forward? Is your question -- I'm sorry just to clarify is your question that the new business amount seems low to you? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think we would agree with that actually.
It's really very difficult to -- we remind folks all the time that the profitability of our business and its long-term value-creation is a lot more dependent on how we treat our renewal book than what happens in our new.
And the last thing that we really want is for agents to be confused to find that we're being thoughtful and disciplined in our renewal book but we're being aggressive from a pricing standpoint from new business.
I -- and so we recognize going into this that it was entirely possible as we became somewhat more urgent about profitability improvement that the new business levels could very well fall off.
Now this is a summary of lots of areas.
There are some areas where I think we've overdone it a little bit where I think we could -- I think we've been almost too conservative with respect to new business and we've got to dial up.
It gets -- it's not an overall strategy.
There are regions where we've got it just right when we look at the numbers and it's working terrifically.
And there are others where we've gotten a little too conservative and you want to dial that back just the littlest bit.
But I don't perceive it as a comment on the competitive market.
I'm sure there's some truth to that but I think the more substantive dynamic is the approach that we bring to our enthusiasm our aggressiveness or our conservatism at the point of new business.
And our next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jay looking at the overall x cat and x prior-year development combined ratio of 94.6% it's meaningfully improved from any of the 4 quarters of 2011.
And I just want to get your sense as to whether we should think of that as the right run rate going forward? Jay this is Jay Benet.
I think it's -- what Jay and Brian were talking about is the earning end of rate increases that we've been getting over the past 12 months.
And when you think about whatever estimates you're making for a loss cost trend you have to look at the amortization effectively of these written rate increases.
And you've essentially seen an upward sloping line of rate increases in that period of time.
So just arithmetically if nothing else changed if the weather was exactly the same if loss cost trends were exactly the same you would just see the combined ratio move in a favorable way based upon that amortization.
So we'll see that happens with all the things I just mentioned.
But it's not that it's reached a steady state it's reached a different state than it's been in.
And Jay I would add that one of the things we're taking for granted here as we're responding is that you understand the impact not only of catastrophic weather which you immediately pulled out but small weather such as we call it around here has had a significant impact quarter-to-quarter and even has some seasonality to it.
It's not just a property loss.
We've seen -- traditionally fourth quarter there are more auto accidents.
We can have a conversation about why that is.
And even the fact when there wasn't bad weather in the fourth quarter there still seems to be some seasonality so it's not quite as smooth as we'd all like to think.
It would sure make it easier for us to manage if it was but there is some seasonality and movement up and down so I'd resist the temptation to just say that's the number and it gets better from here.
I have no idea what the next 3 quarters will bring but I'm sure we're going to be sitting in front of you with some quarter where small weather was either much better than we thought it was going to be or much worse than we thought it was going to be.
And that's going to evidence itself in the numbers that quarter.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And my follow-up question is was there any seasonal influence on the pace of reserve releases in the first quarter? Is there a certain book of business that gets analyzed because that picked up as well versus any of the prior 4 quarters? No.
Our reserving processes are very uniform quarter-to-quarter.
So this is just getting really the fourth quarter data from last year analyzing in conjunction with everything else we've known about the reserves and seeing some very favorable movements.
As you know when you're looking at reserve development you're seeing trends you have to always determine whether those trends are real or whether there's some anomaly that's taking place.
So we do want to make sure that there's enough data that has manifested itself as being real before we make adjustments but that's something that's going to happen on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
There's really no magic about the fourth quarter versus any other quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just have actually one question about -- I know there was a case a John Mansville (sic) [Johns Manville] case that was talked about in the first quarter just in the media in an asbestos settlement there.
Did that have any impact on the reserve development in the first quarter? This is Jay Benet.
No we had no change whatsoever in our asbestos reserves in the first quarter or our environmental reserves.
Actually you can see that in all the discussion associated with the litigation and asbestos information.
There's no provision.
I'm sure we have paids.
Right.
I’m sorry.
We had no provision.
No incurreds.
We did have paids...
Research Division</strong> And then you -- I assume having asked this before is -- on the 2010 book you had some latent frequency some late-reported claims.
And I just wanted to see if we can get an update in terms of has the late-reported claim activity abated for the 2010 comp accident year? And is it too early to talk about whether or not any of that activity has manifested in the '11 accident year? So this is Brian.
And again you're talking specifically about comp year.
So no I think that we've seen the frequency dynamic relative to that business level off and so we did not see any further activity in the first quarter on the 2010 year and are not seeing a similar dynamic through 2011.
There's no change of any magnitude of -- in workers’ comp reserves for either 2010 or 2011.
Research Division</strong> And then just last one.
It was on the Slide 14 you mentioned -- what is the retention? What has been that sort of trend of retention over time if you can? And I realize there's a lot of information in that slide but are you seeing an improved retention of the business you want or stable retention of the business you want as you've taken rate over the past several quarters relative to kind of the retention of the business that you would rather not have that's on the higher side of the loss ratio spectrum? Yes this is Brian.
I would say directionally from a retention perspective this is pretty consistent what we would say.
It's the strongest retentions to the left here and this one obviously the middle bar is slightly higher.
But very solid retentions in the plus 80% and the weaker activity on the far right.
So I think directionally it's going to be similar.
Yes what we do from time to time is we look in our management information system for things that we use to manage the business and share them with you.
So this is a slide that is prepared for many of our businesses on a monthly basis that we have just compiled for you to see the granularity in which we actually manage it.
But it's not something that's showing a different view than what we would previously have had had we been putting this together for you.
The analytics are not new.
The analytics have actually been around for a long time.
This is -- particularly just given the rate environment and some of the focus that some of you have had on rate and retention we thought it would be helpful for you to actually see it and understand how granular you need to be for the strategy to be successful.
Yes.
And our next question comes from Matthew Heimermann of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First just on the Page 14 slide.
The over-simplistic view of the world might be that you'd expect lower retentions as you go up in terms of the loss ratio bands but when we look to 60% to 90% it's a little bit higher than the less-than-60% band.
I'm assuming a lot of that just has to do with mix but would love a little color there.
Yes it's Brian.
I wouldn't overly analyze the precision of the -- which bars are higher.
It was meant to be pretty much a representation of something as we've said over and over that we actually manage on a much more granular basis.
We also don't look at just the loss ratio and the loss performance so it's -- you've got a lot of other things going on there.
As Jay said it's a long-term loss ratio so...
I'd actually remind you because this is I think a pretty good example.
We have shared with you in previous quarters this goes back perhaps a year that when we bring on a block of new business what that loss ratio performance looks like and largely through the implementation of our own loss management practice we're sitting with a group of 750 professionals who are really dedicated to helping our middle-market customers lower their losses.
So if we've come into a situation that's not been managed that we've not had before it's new and they are engaging with us in loss management practices so that we actually believe that we can help them lower their loss experience in a reasonably short period of time that will have us have one view of the account versus another kind of account that simply doesn't do it.
That's another example of an important variable that goes into what our thinking about price and return acceptability is.
We're -- we -- the reason we give you a long-term loss ratio here how we look at it is because that's what we're trying to achieve: long-term loss ratio performance that creates real value for everyone by the way not just for us but also for the customer.
So that's an example of a pretty good variable an important variable that we consider as we go through the pricing analysis.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
I just wanted to make sure I was thinking about it right in terms of -- to the point you just made there might be business in there you think shifts to a better cohort in terms of loss ratio over time to the actions you think you could take.
There could be business in there that is Homeowners in the state of Oklahoma which probably is suffering from last year but you're making changes to try to -- I just want to get around some of -- I'm just trying to make sure I'm thinking about some of those things correctly.
You are although I'll point out this is just commercial accounts you're looking at.
[indiscernible] This is just commercial accounts.
So Homeowners Oklahoma not part of this but your concept is right.
But your concept is right.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
I could have said small business Alabama instead.
Okay no that's fair.
And then just on the dividend I guess one of my questions I have is if cycles have changed and we've talked about this a little bit in the past and we're now troughing out at higher levels of -- higher earnings return levels than we would have in the past how do you change -- you just raised the dividend but if I kind of look at the new dividend it's only -- if 2011 accident year earnings with kind of a 3.5% cat load is the right way to think about kind of the earnings base that would still only represent kind of a high-30s payout ratio which when you think about historical trough payout ratios or peak payout ratios for all the trough earnings seems pretty low.
So just curious how you -- how -- whether or not that impacts how you think about the dividend over time and potentially kind of what a dividend payout could look like.
First I'll tell you that we analyze it here independent of any cycle dynamics.
We just as I -- we shared with you before we're not big believers in the concept of some mythical cycle that carries everyone up and then carries everyone down.
But the nice thing about our whole capital strategy is that our philosophy is to return it all is to return all the excess capital and it's really in a combination of share buybacks as well as dividends.
And so we don't perseverate a lot about the payout ratio.
We also recognize that you can have a 1 in 500 event tomorrow and then you could have another 1 in 500 event the following week and suddenly our payout ratio would look real high.
So we always stand ready to pay claims have liquidity be available to make the payments we need to make and yet have a philosophy of we're not keeping any capital here that we don't think we can use productively.
And we could certainly have an interesting debate about whether dividends and share buybacks have preference.
And I've talked to many shareholders and I would tell you that it's split about 50-50 as I talk to them.
So it's not something that we spend a lot of time really dwelling on.
As long as we have a competitive yield an attractive yield for owning our stock and we're committed to returning the rest of the capital we think we're in pretty good position.
Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg of Langen McAlenney.
On the commercial auto reserve strengthening you had strengthening last year for that line.
It's continuing now.
You mentioned frequency and severity.
I'm wondering if given how long this is persisting whether or not it's become more of a severe -- severity issue on the margin for you guys.
Yes Larry this is Jay Benet.
The trends that we had been seeing we factor into our loss specs.
And what we saw in the first quarter based upon the analysis of the fourth quarter results was a higher level of frequency and a higher level of severity.
In the physical damage area we're just seeing higher costs associated with car repairs.
And every time you get more data you're trying to evaluate what the proper pick is.
And in some respects we're chasing it a little bit.
The dollar magnitude is not very much.
When you look at what we're seeing in commercial auto as part of the reserve development it's like $50 million.
So don't think -- on a pretax basis.
Don't think of this as some very very large item for us but like everything else we're doing we react quickly and decisively to the kind of information we see.
And as Brian said it does impact our pricing as we move forward.
Great that's helpful.
And then can you just give us a little color if there's any to be had on your lower advertising spend for your direct consumer? Clearly the underwriting loss associated with debs [ph] also came down in the quarter.
Has -- is   anything changing on the margin with the strategy there? Larry no.
Our strategy remains the same and I think this is worth just 1 minute or 2.
It's -- we made this investment as a long-term investment and I'd just start off by saying that none of us feel differently about how we believe our independent agents' personal lines business is going to act.
We know the customers we have.
We know their socioeconomic dynamics.
We know their risk management needs.
It's hard for us to believe that that class of customer is ultimately one day going to really want to take it on himself without someone advocating for choice and alternatives but we also recognize that we could be wrong.
And so we're going to -- we began to underwrite this with 2 concepts.
First a defensive one which was if we were wrong about the longer term and we wanted to be positioned to be able to respond.
And then offensively we also saw the possibility.
And we do see who the customer is who buys direct that's one of the real learnings of this.
We understand now with real clarity who it is who's buying that to the extent that change continued could we create a model that would build a successful business around it? And we started with nothing.
We started without the technology or people in seats or an understanding or a marketing program.
And over all these periods I can tell you the things that have gone just terrifically.
We have a technology platform that's solid and reliable.
We have developed a marketing approach that actually does generate response importantly things that we learn.
We figured once someone would begin a quote process they'd finish it.
And we learned in the early days not so.
That in our early days lots of the customers would start and then drop off.
That required changes in processes and people and the rest and ultimately we now have solved that problem.
We're pretty good at getting people to respond.
We're pretty good at getting responders to get to a quote.
And the next step is to get the quotes converted to sales.
And so now we're talking about not only process but pricing and competitive positioning and how the product is sold and the advice that's given.
And we're going to gear our advertising spend now to when there's something to be learned when we're making a change implementing a process and we've got to see what happens so we'll go out and we'll be more active and we'll drive activity and we'll be able -- we'll be able to see what comes back at us.
If we -- the great risk in all this and 20 years ago this happened to us once before we had a great marketing success but a financial failure.
And we're going to guard very carefully not to have that happen.
And before we begin to really step down we're going to make sure that there's a real -- a high likelihood of success financially that we can make the requisite investments start to do the spending that's necessary to drive more activity and ultimately convert it not only to sales but to sales that are priced and underwritten that produce an appropriate return.
And we're just not there yet.
We're not at that level.
But we have a talented group of people who are driving the effort.
It gets the attention of the senior leadership here.
It's 1 of the 2 most strategic initiatives that we have.
It's not a backwater activity it's front and center.
I'm proud of what we're accomplishing but we're not going to make the real bad misstep of being convinced that we're ready to go before we are.
So it's just going to be cautious and we're going to keep learning and we're going to keep going.
But I wouldn't read anything into the timing of our spending other than what's tied to the underlying process changes from which we're trying to learn.
Jay could I add one thing? This is Doreen Spadorcia.
And I just wanted to make one other comment.
In addition to that we will have a lumpy spend.
It's not going to be a set amount of dollars that you'll see every month.
For example we're looking at local heavy-up in the next few quarters so you may not even see us on national TV.
But in particular states where we know we've got a broad product appetite and match we'll be in those places.
In addition we are spending quite a bit of time on digital marketing.
Again things you might not see and the cost structure might be different but very targeted again to the kind of customer that we match with so again to Jay's point that we can push that conversion rate up.
So you just won't see probably big national spends but we are doing marketing.
Thank you.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Gabriella Nawi for any closing remarks.
Very good.
Thank you Tina.
Thank you for joining us all today.
As always Andrew Hersom and myself are available in the Investor Relations department for any follow-up.
Thanks and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Thursday July 19 2012.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Andre.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our second quarter 2012 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Given the active weather pattern we saw in the second quarter we're pleased to report solid performance driven by continued strong underwriting results and investment income.
In the quarter we produced net income of $499 million or $1.26 per diluted share including $357 million of after-tax catastrophe losses or $0.90 per diluted share.
Year-to-date return on equity is now at 10.5% and operating return on equity is nearly 12%.
The weather losses in the quarter though much improved from last year's extraordinary $1.1 billion level are still much higher than historical experience would suggest.
It was not too many years ago that $357 million in after-tax cat losses is what we would have expected for a full year.
Today weather events and their impact on local communities and our policy holders seem to be a constant news headline.
In this quarter alone there were tornadoes across the Midwest wildfires in Colorado there were hailstorms in Texas and most recently violent thunder and windstorms across the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic.
Brian will discuss our cat losses with you in more detail.
But once again I want to extend my personal and professional thanks to our 13 000-person-strong claim organization who continue to be called upon to do extraordinary work in difficult circumstances and they continue to make all of us very proud.
I just want to say thanks.
The continued high level of weather losses along with the continuing decline in interest rates validates our strategy to drive improved rate terms and conditions and therefore lift underwriting results.
That strategy is on course and is now very much visible in our earnings.
Net income excluding catastrophe losses net favorable prior-year development improved an impressive 16% from the prior-year quarter driven primarily by higher earned pricing.
In the quarter we were again successful in achieving rate gains across all of our business segments.
The Business Insurance rate increased over 7% and Personal Insurance renewal prices increased in both Auto and Homeowners by 6% and 11% respectively.
And in FP&amp;II rates increased in both our Management Liability businesses and our International businesses 5% and 4% respectively.
This is all positive and importantly as Brian will demonstrate we are leveraging our analytics to realize improved profitability by achieving rate in a targeted fashion where it is needed.
And one more topic to cover before I turn it over to Jay.
We spent a lot of time thinking about the appropriateness of our financial objective of achieving a mid-teens operating return on equity over time particularly in the light of the continuing decline in interest rates as well as the possibility that weather patterns may be different from historical trends.
As it relates to interest rates we observed that the 10-year treasury is now at 1.5%.
We thought it was low when just a year ago it was just under 3%.
And as for weather one only has to look at the experience of the last couple of years to understand that mother nature is having her own say about weather patterns.
On the positive side we've been successful in achieving significant rate increases and have taken underwriting steps which when combined with the rate gains are already producing meaningful improvements and profitability.
We are committed to continuing to take these steps.
On a historical perspective our over-time returns on equity have been amongst the best in the industry particularly over the last 7.5 years.
However we have said previously that achieving a mid-teens ROE is not currently achievable in the short-term.
To be clear that means right now and likely through the immediate future.
However we continued to embrace our long-term financial objective as an aspirational goal.
And in that regard we will continue to take the steps necessary to meet that goal as it is stated over time.
We are very pleased with the profitability improvements we have already achieved and based on written rate gains and our expectations of loss trends are likely to continue to achieve at least over the near-term.
Our entire organization embraces this goal and it is embedded in the DNA of this place more deeply than most would suspect.
Consequently we continue to direct our underwriters to continue to move forward and also with the -- I'm sorry we continue to direct our underwriters to continue to move forward.
We will do so selectively with the goal of not disrupting our agents brokers and customers but also with the goal of producing superior returns over time.
If and when we become convinced that the environment will no longer allow us to achieve this goal again over time we will change it.
But for now we remain committed.
To sum up this was a very good quarter that was unfortunately impacted by elevated weather losses.
The underwriting and pricing actions we've been taking in our businesses are consistent with our strategy of generating superior returns.
We are very pleased with our progress and momentum to-date.
And we will keep moving forward.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
Looking beyond cat losses I would characterize our second quarter results as strong.
As Jay already indicated underlying underwriting results showed margin improvement in each segment including expanding margins in Business Insurance and we continue to see our reserves develop favorably.
As for investment results non-fixed income investment returns were strong this quarter driven by private equities in real estate while fixed income investment returns were in line with our expectations given the low interest rate environment.
Other items to note: First we reduced our debt-to-capital ratio in the quarter as we used holding company cash to repay $250 million of maturing debt.
The debt-to-total capital ratio now stands at 22.3% down from 23.1% at the beginning of the quarter.
Second we modified our cat coverage by modestly reducing our General Cat Treaty and increasing our Northeast coverage.
Effective July 1 maximum recovery under our Gen Cat Treaty was reduced to $400 million from $525 million and the attachment point was increased to $1.5 billion.
Also effective July 1 we renewed our $600 million Northeast Gen Cat Treaty with the same $2.25 billion attachment point as in the prior-year.
And finally effective June 6 we entered into a 3-year reinsurance agreement with Long Point Re III a newly formed entity that issued $250 million of cat bonds providing us with Northeast hurricane coverage on specified lines of business which is subject to a $2 billion retention.
After which we can recover 50% of covered losses up to $250 million.
All of this was accomplished at a cost that was effectively the same as in the prior year.
For your convenience we've shown the structure of our cat coverage on Page 21 of the webcast and a complete description is included on our second quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier today.
And finally all of our financial strength indicators remain in excellent shape.
Given seasonal cash flow patterns and recent cat losses second quarter operating cash flows remain strong at $451 million a holding company liquidity of $1.98 billion and all of our capital ratios were at or better than their targeted levels at the end of the quarter.
Net unrealized investment gains which ended the quarter at $4.57 billion before tax increased by over $200 million in the quarter and book value per share rose to $64.90 4% higher than the beginning of the year and 9% higher than a year ago.
And as always we remain fully committed to identifying and returning excess capital to our shareholders.
During the quarter we returned a little over $530 million to our shareholders with common stock repurchases of $350 million and dividends of $181 million.
Brian is now going to talk about our underwriting results.
Thanks Jay.
Before I get into the segment results I'd like to take a minute to discuss the impact of catastrophes in the quarter.
In total there were 13 industry cats 7 of which were significant for us.
While our cat losses this quarter were much lower than the unprecedented levels of 2011 they were considerably higher than what we would've expected based on long-term historical experience.
Although thankfully we didn't have the headline-grabbing events of last year to put all this into perspective the application of state market shares to our catastrophe losses and estimates reported by competitors would imply an industry loss over $10 billion.
At this level but for last year's results this would have been the worst second quarter for weather losses in history.
Particularly in light of the significant and unpredictable impact of weather we remain very pleased with the performance of the franchise particularly the underlying margin improvement that we are seeing across our businesses.
Beginning with Business Insurance.
Operating income excluding cats in prior year development is $488 million up more than 9% from the prior-year quarter.
On the same basis the combined ratio improved nearly 3 points year-over-year driven largely by earned rate increases exceeding loss cost trends along with fewer large losses.
Net written premiums were up 5% year-over-year driven by strong pricing gains as well as by growth in exposures and audit premiums.
Retention remained solid and was in line with the first quarter at 79% while new business of $451 million was down from the prior-year quarter but up from the recent quarters.
Renewal premium change for the quarter was 9 points which included pure rate of 7%.
You can see on Slide 10 that although this looks like a drop of a full point in rate from last quarter the more precise numbers show that we went from rate increases of 7.5% last quarter to 7.4% this quarter.
So essentially unchanged in the aggregate.
The rate increases continued to be broad-based with all product lines between 7 and 9 points with workers comp and auto still at the top of that range.
With the 7.4% average price increase and given our current view of loss trend which remained at about 4% we continued to significantly expand written margins in the quarter.
For over the last 6 months we're encouraged that we've been able to achieve real margin improvement while at the same time delivering solid retention and new business volumes.
I want to emphasize as I did last quarter that to really understand how good the results are they need to be analyzed at a granular level.
On Slide 14 we have updated with second quarter data a summarized example of how we approach this.
The slide shows our rate change and retention data for Commercial Accounts segmented by the individual account's long-term loss ratio.
The bar on the left represents our best performing business accounts with a long-term loss ratio of less than 60% and the bar on the right represents our worst-performing business accounts with long-term loss ratios exceeding 90%.
The results show that retention is stronger for the better business and the rate changes dramatically higher on the poor performing accounts.
The data is fairly consistent with last quarter with the most significant change coming in the greater than 90% loss ratio band where pricing increased about 1 point while retention increased 7 points.
We believe this suggests more opportunity to improve profitability prospectively.
To help bring home the execution of this -- how the execution of this strategy has positively impacting profitability consider a simple example of an account in the middle band on Slide 14.
Prior to this year's rate actions assume the account had a loss ratio of 75%.
As you can see on the slide our average rate actions in this band are 11% and assuming loss trend of 4 after the written change has fully earned in the loss ratio on this account would improve to approximately 70% a drop of 7% on the loss ratio in a single year.
I want to emphasize a few points.
First although this data is real it is an illustration in that the exhibit presents summarized data and we actually measure and manage our performance on a much more granular level by individual business product line industry geography et cetera.
Second actual pricing and underwriting decisions are made by individual underwriters on an individual account basis.
What you should take away from this is that a simplistic look at the aggregate rate number without understanding this granular level -- this level of granularity does not give you a complete picture of how profitability was impacted.
This is a complex process that requires a tremendous amount of data and it is a core competency of ours.
And this is why we are confident about the path we're on.
Going forward we will continue to execute our pricing strategy in this manner.
And right now we see opportunities to improve the rate and retention trade-off especially on our least profitable business.
In the Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment we continue to see strong results with operating income for the quarter of $182 million an increase of 11% from the second quarter of 2011.
After eliminating the effects of catastrophes in prior-year development loss ratios have now improved for 6 consecutive quarters.
This improvement is due largely to our efforts to achieve a better balance of risk and reward for attritional losses as well as large losses and catastrophes.
Turning to production in Bond &amp; Financial Products surety volumes were down modestly from prior year quarter and continued at a level that reflects reduced construction spending.
In our Management Liability business which comprises about 35% of the Financial Professional &amp; International segment we continue to show strong premium growth in production metrics.
We achieved meaningful and accelerating rate increases in this business and are encouraged that retentions remain high.
Overall a great quarter for this franchise.
In Personal Insurance weather continues to have a significant impact on our results with after-tax cats coming in at $190 million for the quarter.
Excluding cats and prior-year reserve development operating income of $164 million was up 34% from the second quarter of 2011 driven largely by elevated non-cat weather and fire losses in the prior year.
Excluding these items underlying loss results for both Auto and Home were essentially flat year-over-year.
In Home the story is all about weather volatility and the resulting need to improve margins.
In Auto there is also a weather dynamic that is not insignificant but the bigger story is the continued pressure in losses that the industry is experiencing particularly the increased severity trend for both physical damage and bodily injury claims that we've been addressing for several quarters.
Accordingly we continue to improve pricing in Auto and both pricing and terms and conditions in Home.
Renewal premium change in the quarter increased in both Auto and Homeowners to 6% and 11% respectively.
Given our commitment of lifting returns in this segment we are seeing lower new business volumes as anticipated and we are very confident in our strategy.
With that let me turn it over to Gabby.
Thank you.
Andre we are ready to begin the question-and-answer period please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mike Zaremski with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I've been hearing you and others talk about terms and conditions changes within Homeowners.
Can you update us on that initiative? Specifically how far along in the process are we? And can you detail what the main initiatives are? I believe they're on the deductible side.
Yes.
Mike this is Brian.
Let me start.
Yes clearly the main initiative is the deductibles.
We've been pushing this -- I would say we started about 12 months ago.
We've been pushing more dramatically in the last 6 months.
We've got just about 40 states now where we are pushing higher deductibles than we have historically had.
And that is the main initiative.
In some places -- in most places it is heavily on the new business side of the equation.
So it's not as much broadly across the renewal book although in the more troubled areas it's even there.
We're pretty encouraged by fairly recent activity it's gotten.
And there was actually an article in The Wall Street Journal online the other day about insurance deductibles soaring and talked about kind of a widespread movement to get deductibles up.
So that is clearly the biggest area.
Also from the underwriting and terms perspective I think we and some other companies are looking hard about how we cover roof hail losses.
And so there's an underwriting dynamic about being more -- doing a better job of selection on the age of roof the quality the type of roof et cetera.
And also looking at how we could potentially be changing the coverage around covering roof losses.
Those are probably the biggest areas.
The only thing I'd add which Brian made brief reference to but I think over time will matter is a change in our underwriting process to actually exclude homes that have roofs that are of a particular age compared to -- and it varies based upon the type of roof it is and its structure but setting up a hard-line standard to the extent that the age of the roof exceeds x number of years or x percentage of its useful life we won't underwrite the home at all.
And I don't know how many states that's in Brian.
I don't know if you know either.
Yes.
I don't know.
Research Division</strong> So I mean do you -- is this -- 40 states seems like a lot so should we -- I mean should we expect -- I mean in your increasing rates in Homeowners in excess of I think 8% 9% 10% plus you're making deductible changes should we expect a -- is the expectation meaningful improvement down the road? I'm trying to think of what -- what exactly do you mean by meaningful? Research Division</strong> In terms of the margins.
It just seems like there's a lot going on there.
Just more than just rate.
It's Jay Fishman.
I think 2 things.
First the rate side is not only new but also renewal.
And so the impact of the rate is taking effect in the book right now.
What is completely unpredictable is the weather.
And the weather losses are such a meaningful part of Homeowners losses that for us to speak about anticipating improvement implicitly implies an assumption about weather.
And I would tell you that importantly here the actions that we're taking on rate we're doing fine pleased with the retention in the Homeowners book.
To the extent the change in deductibles are predominantly in new business we anticipated and are seeing a drop-off in our new business as other competitors have not yet become -- have not changed as much as we have.
But the article that Brian referenced a moment ago about soaring deductibles was interesting to us.
So I'd say that yes we feel very good about the rate actions and the renewal book and that's looking pretty solid to us.
And we will ultimately see what happens with our new business on the -- driven by the change in deductibles in those states.
But you're right Mike together they should have a meaningful impact on margins.
The big variable is what the weather's going to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good that's very helpful.
And then lastly if I look at Slide 10 on Business Insurance and the renewal rate change on 1Q 7.5% 2Q 7.4%.
I believe you guys have a pretty decent line it's 30 60 days out on pricing.
Do you think you've reached an absolute [ph]  Level of rate increase that we should maybe think about rates moving downward? Yes so let me -- it's Brian again Mike.
Let me take a shot.
And again I'd start by reemphasizing that 7.5% rate 9 points of price and 4 points of trend we're getting some pretty good margin expansion at these levels.
But I get your question which is where is it going? And I'll start with the caveats we always give.
We don't have a magic crystal ball so we're not going to make any long-term predictions.
With that said a couple of comments.
We've talked for a long time that the 2 main things that are driving pricing improvement at this time are the lowering interest rates and the increased weather volatility.
Certainly nothing happened this past quarter that mitigated those 2 factors so there's a lot of reason why there should be something sustaining it.
But the thing that I'd reinforce is to us it isn't about a magic number.
Believe it or not we do not have an aggregate target for a pure rate number that we are shooting for.
We've got about a million accounts every year so 1/12 of those coming through every quarter.
And it really is a very granular -- how we approach it.
No broad brush answer.
And so what we really really focus on is the execution underneath and are we getting the right rate increases on the right accounts.
Our goal is not to get higher rate.
Our goal is to improve profitability.
Now we understand that in the aggregate more rate is better than less in that venture.
So it's hard for us to pinpoint exactly where.
I mentioned in the distribution slide the fact that we had 1 point higher rate in our worst-performing business and 7 points higher retention suggests that there's more opportunity there.
If that is in fact the case we'll be encouraged.
But we're going to execute on a very granular level.
I'll add just a couple of comments because I think it is so important.
It really speaks to the fundamental strategy.
We've got underwriters out there who are looking at all these individual accounts every day.
Brian is right almost a million business accounts over the course of the year.
We've got 1 underwriter doing an evaluation of an individual account or an individual class of business and suggesting pricing.
We have accounts that produce very attractive returns.
We have accounts that produce much less attractive returns.
How the mix actually shows up this month -- which accounts are coming due are they weather exposed are they less weather exposed have they been consistent with our loss expectations have they not been -- is really going to determine what the individual underwriter decides as it relates to that account.
Though it's -- our look at 7.5% versus 7.4% is that you can't conclude much of anything from that.
And I'm not even sure in the aggregate it's all that relevant.
The breadth and we've shown this before the breadth of account of pricing changes in our account base is really quite remarkable.
It goes from accounts that are getting 10% or more of rate reductions all the way up to accounts that are getting 10% or more of rate gains.
And so it's really left to the underwriters.
What we will say is that we're not hearing anything anecdotally from our field organization that would cause us to believe that continuing to improve profitability is becoming meaningfully more challenging.
We ask that all the time.
We're just not hearing a message back that says "We're beginning to find this competitively difficult." The feedback from the field organization is actually pretty encouraging and it's one of the important reasons that we have confidence that we can continue to move forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question for Jay or Jay just on the non-fixed income portfolio.
I read in the 10-Q you expect income in the second half of this year to be more consistent with the second half of last year which would have a lower after-tax yield than what you guys put up in the first half of this year.
Is that driven more by how returns are reported on that asset class? Or more a statement on where those returns should be relative to current interest rates? And I've got a follow-up.
Yes this is Jay Benet.
We don't have a crystal ball to see how the alternative investment portfolio is going to perform but in looking at what took place during the quarter we did have a very strong quarter with regard to private equities and real estate in particular.
But I'd say in the case of private equities it was geared more towards the first half of the quarter than the second half of the quarter.
I mean you're seeing as well as we are what's taking place in the economy and the -- in the markets.
So in looking out at the second half of the year we were just more or less looking at the performance of the portfolio in the second half of the second quarter and saying things seem to be moderating a little bit from where they were in the first half of the quarter and where they were in the first quarter.
So it's hard to predict as we said.
And we'll see what happens.
But we're not forecasting a precipitous drop.
We're just saying take a look at the first -- the second half of last year as some indicator as to where the second half of this year might be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question for Brian and I know you've already alluded to this on Slide 14.
It appears you may have some runway here on the above 90% combined ratio business to really drive rate.
Maybe another way of asking this question is there a more optimal spread in retention between your worst-performing business and your middle- or best-performing accounts? Because it seems like it's a pretty tight spread and you can really drive a lot more rate on that worst-performing if you could talk to that a little? Yes.
So the thing I would emphasize like I said in the comments is -- so the picture we're showing there is a real summarized version of how we do this.
And so as we look at it I would say directionally what we've seen in the last 90 days is to exactly that point more opportunity on the worst-performing business whether that's combined ratio over 90 or however we measure it in different businesses.
And it gets back to what Jay said is driving that.
Potentially there is a more optimal balance in the retentions there.
We've got to see how account by account how that all plays out.
But we're very focused on improving the profitability specifically on those accounts and retaining our best business at the best possible terms conditions and price.
This is Jay Fishman.
In some of our business we're looking at these numbers on a decile basis that granular.
In some we're looking at it on a quintile basis that granular.
But when you look at the page that you're looking at this is only 1 quarter to 1 quarter and sequentially.
And I'd hesitate to overreact or over-predict because you just don't know what happened in the field on so many individual accounts.
But to see a lift in retention in that 90 and above on a summarized basis with only 1 point of lift in rate suggests that there's -- it'd be a useful bucket for us to focus on over the next quarter and see if we can make better -- effect more better profit improvement actions in that bucket.
But it is only 1 sequential quarter to another and I wouldn't overreact to it or overstate its significance.
It's an indicator an important indicator but only 1.
Research Division</strong> And just quick follow-up that 90% or higher combined ratio what percent of your business is that currently? I don't have that exact number so...
I don't know that we've ever disclosed it either.
And it varies by the way by month.
What comes due? That was the other part of this that is so important.
That competitive perspective isn't something that we want to share.
But the mix isn't the same quarter-to-quarter which obviously affects not only the retention but also the rate gains.
It keeps moving.
But from a competitive standpoint I just don't think that's something that we'd like to share.
And I would just say because I think you said combined ratio first of all it's loss ratio.
And you can look at our aggregate loss ratio obviously it's a relatively small percentage.
Or else our aggregate loss ratio wouldn't be where it is.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
I guess just staying on that discussion on Slide 14 which is obviously very helpful.
If you sort of look forward and if I understand this correctly you're saying that the slope of the rate change line will change but the retention percentages even if they grow they would not continue to grow at this one-off this quarter what we saw? Is that a fair assumption? I mean that number will not continue to climb meaningfully on a retention basis.
First -- again Jay Fishman.
We're reluctant and not unwilling to but reluctant to make predictions because it is so granular and it's so account by account.
But broad base you'd look at the loss ratio over 90% and what we saw was a 1 point increase in rate from the first quarter and a meaningful increase in retention.
It may be that we should have a somewhat higher rate and a even lower retention so I don't think that we're -- in fact I'll say it definitively we're not predicting anything.
We're not predicting a change in the slope nor are we predicting a change in the retention.
This is again only 3 months on a million business accounts a year.
What we're trying to do from all the data that we see is interpret behavior and then we sit down with the management with Bill Cunningham and the rest of the Business Insurance team.
And we have a serious discussion about the way the strategy is being executed.
And what Brian was suggesting -- what Brian said was that we look at that data and you see we see an opportunity to do it better.
What form that takes what the relative mix of retention versus rate is not -- I don't know I don't know.
We're going to see what accounts come up next quarter.
It's not the same accounts.
It's a new group of accounts.
With a new set of demands and a new set of attributes.
But you look at what in that small section in the quarter we say "Alright there's an opportunity there to do it better and therefore improve profitability at a different pace." At a 90% and above loss ratio it's hard to argue that we're making money any serious money.
I mean this is loss ratio only.
So it may be that allowing more of it to non-renew is a step in the right direction.
Remember even though it's above 90% it goes all the way out.
We have accounts that have loss ratios that are worse than 90%.
So you're getting into very granular decisions about what you retain and what you don't and what rate demands you put on the book.
One quick thing if I got your question too.
Just to make sure that you don't overblow the arithmetic here by thinking that "Gee the retention ratio went up a lot in that bucket and it might come back down." That is by far the smallest of the 3 buckets.
We are also at the same time focused on the left-hand bucket of hoping to keep a little bit more.
We could have retention come down significantly on the 90% and above go up slightly on the under 60% and the net of that might be flat retention or even increased retention.
So be careful with the overanalyzing the arithmetic.
In its simplest form not every account in the book returns the same.
And ultimately the analysis is individual account or class performance what we've already accomplished from an earned rate -- from a written rate perspective what will become earned prospectively and then what steps do we take on what comes up for renewal next month next month next month.
We're always looking 30 60 90 days out.
So it's not the same accounts.
It's going to be a new group of accounts.
And we will figure out what the best course of action is.
Yes that's very helpful.
The only other question I had is on and maybe I missed this on the reserve addition in -- on the environmental side.
I noticed in the Q you talk about new claim levels increasing for I guess the mid-1980s policies.
Maybe just expand on that a bit.
And is that just a one-off? Or is that something which is beginning to tick up? Yes they're actually -- this is Jay Benet.
They're actually not increasing.
What we see is each year a flow of new claims coming in.
And the flow has been decreasing.
When we do reserving we make estimates as to the level of decrease that we're going to see in future claim activity.
And in relation to the actual flow the actual flow has been a little higher than our assumptions have been but they have been decreasing.
And given the nature of the coverage that these things relate to a lot of these things relate to policies that were written decades ago.
So that's what we're trying to communicate in the Q.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I'd love to ask a follow-up question around severity trends.
You guys mentioned helpfully I think Brian the 4% rate you're seeing overall.
And I'm wondering if you could give us some color on your major drivelines of business? What you're seeing in terms of if you want to sort of model rate need versus pricing you're taking? What's your best assumptions we should be using for loss trends? And then also there's been a lot of conversation broadly within the industry around severity acceleration lately around BI.
But we'd love to see because you guys have exposure to a lot of different lines sort of what you're seeing? And if we should be thinking about the emerging issues there starting to work their way into either casualty lines or workers compensation or even some of these sort of higher layer and sort of less slip-and-fall type stuff? Let me start and take a shot and you threw a lot of stuff in there.
So again just to make sure that we're grounded the 4% trend that we're talking about is in BI.
I would say...
Business Insurance.
Business Insurance I'm sorry.
Across the entire place we didn't see anything dramatically changed this quarter.
So whatever I'm going to say about severity trends is the same thing we've been saying for the last several quarters.
In Business Insurance we've talked to you starting I don't know probably a year ago now on the workers comp trends.
Those have kind of leveled off but they've leveled off at a higher than traditional rate.
So that's one of the places that we're continuing to watch it.
Again no deterioration this quarter but...
Auto across both personal and commercial are places that we are looking at.
The bodily injury severity is something that is driving through the Auto results.
Again this is both personal and commercial lines.
And it's really on the medical side running clearly higher than medical inflation the medical CPI more hospitalizations.
And on the personal lines side a significant uptick in pedestrian losses et cetera.
I don't think we're the only company talking about that.
On the -- also on the Auto side the physical damage side from a personal line the increased value of used cars has had a significant ripple through the physical damage coverages and the cost -- repair costs and replacement and total loss valuations are up fairly dramatically.
Again those didn't tick up higher in the quarter but they continue to run higher than normal rates that we would see.
And then we've got all the dynamics running through property which is primarily a weather frequency issue.
But those are the big drivers that we're looking at.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful Brian.
Within the medical -- the various medical related lines is this sort of a economically driven sort of customer utilization of P&amp;C insurance sort of growing? Or is it -- do you think it's something due to hospitals and medical providers maybe in a sort of a post-Obamacare in world starting to figure out how better to cost shift to the insurance industry? Yes.
So hard to know exactly.
We don't believe it is fundamentally people trying to find health coverage through our products in a fundamentally different way.
On the Auto side it appears to be driven by more serious accidents and more serious injuries.
Now we could debate the causes of that and distracted driver et cetera distracted pedestrians across the board.
And we and the industry are trying to figure those things out but we don't believe it's fundamentally people trying to access our products for coverage in a way that they haven't historically done.
We do believe that this issue of distracted drivers importantly and distracted pedestrians crossing the street while reading a device and getting hit having accidents.
That's a real factor going on here.
And how to sort it all out and figure out the implications of it quite difficult.
But we're spending a lot of time with it.
Those are 2 societal trends that we believe are clearly showing up in the numbers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's really helpful.
Jay if I could just ask one question.
You made your point -- you made a point early on about sort of a challenge of getting back to a mid-single -- mid-double-digit ROE.
When you talk to your largest agents and you sort of think about sort of positioning them is there a consensus among customers buyers and the people who'll ultimately pay for this that that's a realistic goal and something that the industry should be able to shoot for? Or is your comment that actually -- should we take that to be that's just probably just an unrealistic thing in this environment? That's really a great and interesting question.
I do speak to agents a lot.
One of the things when I talk about anecdotal observations it's not just from our own folks but it's talking to agents about their interactions with customers.
Remember we're quoting an account.
It's the agent or broker who's actually having the conversation with the agent.
And I -- we never really talk about returns -- agents.
It's just not something that they really think about or contemplate.
When I ask the really good ones what the nature of their conversation with their customers are what I often hear is a conversation around -- that the agent tells the customer -- "I tell the customer notwithstanding the increase they are still paying less than they paid for coverage in 200X whatever X is." So the cumulative effect of the rate declines over those last few years notwithstanding the increases -- I hear things like "I tell them that they're still paying less than they paid in 2009 or in 2007." And that the conversation between the agent and customer is okay.
I will tell you that we have not had much angst or pushback from agents or brokers.
And believe me if we were being disruptive to their business we would hear it.
There is no doubt in my mind that we would hear it.
You can go back a couple of years ago when we started this and we identified as an important factor not being disruptive to agents brokers or customers.
That was step #1 for us.
And so far so good.
I don't think agents -- we don't talk about returns on account.
Agents know when an account has had attractive loss performance and when it's had poor loss performance.
They're on top of their accounts they know.
If we execute our strategy thoughtfully and intelligently here we're having conversations about accounts that have had worse than anticipated performance and that's where the rubber really meets the road.
And there's -- they understand and they talk to their customers and they understand.
I think that's one of the reasons why we've been able to execute this as successfully as we are.
It has not been one-size-fits-all approach to the pricing.
It's been very account- or class-driven.
The one thing I would add -- this is Brian -- is that and completely agreeing with Jay our agents and customers don't think about our ROEs.
They do the agents clearly and the middle market and above customers do understand the impact of investment yields on our business.
And so we can have conversations around given the decline in the investment yields logic would say the insurance product the underwriting should be more profitable.
They understand that dynamic.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question would be I think in aggregate most people's view of reserves right now is that they're still [ph] generally redundant but I think -- I also think that some of the recent accident years is where there are some current concern to.
So given we're still seeing some pretty significant favorable numbers coming out of your book just be curious if just how the 2010 2011 accident years are performing within the context of that? Yes.
This is Jay Benet.
In the quarter we didn't see any movement of any magnitude associated with the 2010 2011 accident years other than what we talked about in the releases.
Some of the cat losses that we had put up last year developed a little favorably.
But at this point in time as we've said before whatever we are seeing in terms of loss trends and claim activity we're building into our loss specs we're building into our reserves we stay very current in that in a quarter-by-quarter basis and nothing new has come up in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any -- and how about -- would 1Q be the same comment? I think in the first quarter we talked about some development that had taken place in the 2011 accident year.
Part of it is -- as we refine our calculations about particular years there are some -- I don't know I'd call it almost arithmetic or administrative adjustments that we make.
But there was nothing alarming nothing causing us to shift the view as to profitability associated with a particular type of product.
We did last year strengthen 2010.
Last year yes.
Just to reaffirm that.
So in 2011 we did take actions to strengthen the 2010 year.
And I think in the aggregate that 2010 last year in the aggregate did develop negatively.
We don't know that there was any other year that in the aggregate has developed that way prior to '10? No.
No.
And what Jay is really saying...
And year-to-date 2010 we haven't made any...
Any adjustments.
So the changes that we made last year for 2010 continue to look okay.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
That's right.
That's in part why I was asking the question.
The other -- I guess and Jay Brian I don't know which of you wants to go first on this but can you just maybe talk about kind of the nature of the competition you're seeing right now? And I guess there have been some broker comments about regionals generally being more price-friendly than maybe some of the national carries.
I don't know if that necessarily is really all that different from what we normally hear.
But I guess part of the reason I'm asking that question is when we go back to the cohorts you show the fact that you've got maybe more rate opportunity vis-a-vis retention in that last cohort is that all that unusual relative to what you'd expect to see in an environment where prices are probably moving up? Or is that -- or do you think in your minds that's actually somewhat unique? No.
So part of our hesitancy here is well we obviously don't have perfect transparency into what our competitors are doing.
We -- I would say to your point not fundamentally different.
Your comments about how regional companies are acting relative to national companies I would say is by and large the normal environment and that seems to continue.
I think...
By that I mean because we're -- I would say that we don't feel out of pattern.
I'm putting -- I'm seeing if those are words that fit your instincts right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I think that's a great way to phrase it.
We don't feel out of pattern broadly speaking.
Every account always stands up on its own.
And there is individual discussions about an individual account.
Most of them are okay sometimes they're not sometimes there are issues or problems or a history.
But conversations are unique to the individual account.
But we don't feel out of pattern.
We don't hear anything anecdotally that suggests that we're out of whack here.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the cohort too just kind of maybe having more opportunity to push rate.
And that last cohort is that kind of within the pattern as well? Yes yes.
We'd say it's not unusual.
Underwriters don't like to lose accounts.
They are sales people.
They are thoughtful technical smart sales people but they're sales people.
And they don't particularly like to lose accounts.
So part of the process here is to cause them to feel secure that our goal is to improve profitability.
Volume will be what it will be as long as we are in the broad framework moving down the road to improved profitability.
And importantly culturally here you won't hear criticism from senior folks about an account that was lost.
If an account wasn't renewed it's just fine as long as the process behind it was thoughtful and engaged the agent and was reasonably done.
And so it's not unusual in that -- in those more difficult cohorts as you describe it.
It's just a little more challenging to get underwriters to feel that confident about that group as they do about any other group of accounts that they're working on.
And this is Jay Benet again.
I just wanted to just add something to what I said about reserves.
Gabby reminds me that we did say in the first quarter as it related to the 2011 accident year we did strengthen commercial Auto a little bit.
That would be the one place that's...
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question is again once again on Slide #14.
Just wondering how those bars have shifted in the sense that have you achieved greater profitability on the 60% to 90% and more than 90% loss ratios? And is that the reason why pricing is flattening because less of the accounts are performing badly? Well that's actually -- it's a good question.
We -- because we talk about that actually right here is there -- does there come a time where the returns in the business are such that we're simply not seeking that kind of rate increase that we might have before.
On a theoretical level I'm sure that's -- the answer to that is yes but we've not hit that yet.
We're not -- we are not at the point where there's a fundamental shift in strategy -- pricing strategy going on because we've hit some artificial barrier.
There are no such artificial barriers.
And I would resist the temptation as you've described it to say that rate is flattening out again.
Even we can't make that statement knowing everything that we know.
It's which accounts came due what were the returns on the individual accounts what were the rate needs.
It would be inappropriate to draw a conclusion -- good or bad -- from one quarter to the next.
We'll have a better sense as we get into the third and fourth quarter as to what's actually happening.
That I think is the meaning in the context of how we're continuing.
Is the improvement in profitability going to continue to [indiscernible] itself in rate or in some other way? And the goal here as Brian said before is not to increase rate.
It's to improve profitability.
That's the goal.
And it's -- so it would be a mistake I think to draw a flat conclusion from 7.5% versus 7.4%.
What we do know is that if we look historically at the slope of that line we feel very good about it.
And that's the magic.
That's the -- it's so easy in our business to not know enough that an increase in rate yet a modest decrease in retention not have it convert to improved profitability.
It's not just getting rate and maintaining retention it's getting rate for the right accounts retaining the right ones not retaining the wrong ones.
And so it is indeed that granular to come to a conclusion of whether we are making progress on improving profitability and we have a high degree of confidence that we are.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
You've been good on raising rates.
I'm just curious you've a softening on the economy.
How do you think that's going to impact your ability to raise rates? Again that's a sort of an outlook kind of question.
When we started this -- this is interesting and it's a legitimate question -- one of the things we were concerned about was the ability to raise rate in a difficult economic environment.
I'm not sure that the environment got that much better or so far it's getting that much worse.
I think when you look broadly at it it is largely kind of about the same.
We do see pickup in exposure that's been a plus.
We do see a turn in Auto adjustments that were negative and have now become quite positive that's a plus.
It will -- we will certainly be challenged if in fact exposure begins to drop.
Real exposure not disclosed at the front but disclosed and then subsequently audited.
It will be certainly more challenging to continue to improve profitability in that environment.
And exposure has been modestly positive.
Maybe even a little more than modestly.
But it's been nicely positive.
And so yes I think if exposure really changes not sort of the talking heads discussion of the economy on cable news but if our accounts really begin to have less demands for insurance it will be more challenging I'm sure to continue on in the process.
Not impossible but more challenging.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one last thing if I may.
[indiscernible]  On the personal/Auto severity side.
There was some discussion on high severity.
Just a question on whether it seemed that ticked up in the last couple of quarters? Or is it similar to what you were seeing maybe over the last 1 year? We talked about in the fourth quarter and probably going back to the third quarter and fourth quarter of last year and very slightly into the first quarter of this year what we've seen the last quarter was pretty flat with what we've been seeing before.
But it's running at an elevated level at a higher than historical norm level.
Our final question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to circle back on a couple points.
First on the return on equity goal if we look at the return on equity contribution from investment income it's running in that 9% to 10% range.
In this sustained low interest rate environment how much downside do you see in that aspect of contribution? Then I have a follow-up.
First I'd make an observation that portfolio continues to mature at about $6 billion to $7 billion a year talking about the fixed income portfolio.
So there is more repricing that will occur.
It is not -- the current returns and in fact the decline over the last 12 months is not insignificant going from a tenure of 3 to 9 more precisely to 1.5.
That will continue to have an impact.
So it's -- the fixed income portfolio all other things being the same yield will continue to decline.
It will decline modestly period-to-period because only $6 billion to $7 billion mature.
But it will continue to decline and that will indeed put -- make it more difficult.
Jay you're exactly right make it more difficult to achieve that mid-teens ROE.
Certainly in the near-term which is why I said in the near-term one of the reasons important is the investment environment.
You can't do it today.
It's just not achievable.
Now the question is do we return back at some point to what we all would consider a more normal environment whatever that is and how quickly does that occur? We've been at this level for actually a long time already.
It was September -- the crisis was in '07 Lehman Brothers' issues were September of '08.
We're up to 4 years now since that happened.
This has been a long haul.
And I have no crystal ball other than to think that rates are going to stay at this level for at least the intermediate term.
Certainly everything we're hearing from the Feds suggest that.
But yes it will just make it more challenging.
No question.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then maybe for Brian.
Around that Business Insurance rate increase level 7.4% can you give some discussion in terms of the range you're seeing around that midpoint by major line of business whether that's property workers comp GL Auto? Yes.
I mean it's actually pretty tight.
The...
Tight by business quite broad by account.
Right.
So tight by line when you talk about -- and as I said in my comments Comp and Auto are still running at the highest comp price change levels but that's at about 9 points and -- but I think the lowest is about 6.5.
So every product line is running at a decent rate increase.
To Jay's point the distribution by accounts is dramatic.
So one point I'll make to just contrast how things move.
Rough numbers but if I look at our Commercial Accounts business a year ago about 35% of our accounts were at 0 or a price decrease and about 15% were getting 10% or more increase.
That is actually flip-flopped.
So right now about 35% of our Commercial Accounts renewals get a 10-or-more percent increase.
But still 15% are at 0 or a negative.
So it's a very granular execution.
So there there's a really broad range.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Very much.
This does conclude the Q&amp;A session for today.
I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Nawi.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
We wish you a good day.
And as always Andrew Hersom and I are available for follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Thursday October 18 2012.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our third quarter 2012 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today as we report a very strong third quarter.
Net income was $864 million or $2.21 per diluted share producing a 13.6% return on equity.
Operating income was $867 million or $2.22 per diluted share a record for the quarter for operating income per share.
Operating return on equity for the quarter was 15.5%.
Our earnings were driven by superior underwriting results as well as solid investment income.
From an underwriting perspective we benefited from lower weather-related losses net favorable prior year reserve development as well as the cumulative effect of rate gains we have achieved over nearly 2 years.
In Business Insurance excluding National Accounts written rate increased to nearly 8% with retention increasing as well to 81%.
In Personal Insurance renewal prices increased in both Auto and Homeowners to 9% and 12% respectively while retentions remained stable.
Also in Personal Insurance we continue to execute on improving terms and conditions along with pricing and while we are experiencing lower new business volumes we are taking the right actions in order to improve our profitability and returns.
In FP&amp;II rate increases continued to improve in our Management Liability businesses reaching 6% in the quarter while maintaining stable retentions.
We continue to be pleased with the execution in each of our segments.
While we are encouraged by the success we are having executing our granular pricing strategy I'll remind you that it is not just about the headline numbers that is what is happening underneath the numbers is the real story.
Our success is premised on really understanding which accounts or lines are in need of improvement and which ones meet or exceed our expectations.
Brian will take you through Slide 13 in more detail but the conclusions from this slide are positive.
We initially showed you this analysis several quarters ago as an illustration.
It is a very summarized look at what we do at a very granular level and it is also important that you understand that loss ratio performance is only one of the metrics we use to manage our portfolio.
And even on this very summarized basis the analysis demonstrates real progress.
It is the package of analytics that we deploy that is illustrated on Slide 13 that gives us the confidence that we will get the right combination of rate and retention on the right accounts that will translate into increased profitability.
As we've said before we remain committed to taking the steps necessary to improve returns.
This means leveraging our data and analytics across all of our businesses to underwrite and price each of our products very thoughtfully.
We continue to assume that our operating environment has changed.
Notwithstanding the benign weather we saw in the third quarter Mother Nature seems to be increasingly unpredictable and we believe the low interest rate environment will continue to impact our business for the foreseeable future.
Therefore we will continue to seek improved pricing and take those underwriting steps necessary to improve profits and produce higher returns on capital.
This remains business as usual for us.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Let me begin by echoing Jay's comment the third quarter operating income of $867 million and operating ROE of 15.5% were very strong and along with the timing of certain payables drove extremely strong operating cash flows of $1.5 billion for the quarter.
As Jay indicated third quarter operating results benefited from a relatively low level of both cat and non-cat weather-related losses when compared to both the prior year quarter and to what we would consider normal for the third quarter as well as a significant amount of net favorable prior year reserve development.
Operating results also continued to benefit from earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends in 2 of our segments Business Insurance and Financial Professional &amp; International insurance as well as a relatively low level of large loss activity.
In addition our investment portfolio had another quarter of solid performance driven by real estate partnership and hedge fund returns and the non-fixed income portion and fixed income investment returns that are in line with our expectations.
Another item I would like to mention is that our net favorable prior year reserve development included an addition of $114 million after tax on a net basis to our asbestos reserves.
Coincidentally the same amount added to our asbestos reserves on a net basis in the prior year quarter.
On a gross basis the current quarter's asbestos reserve addition was actually $24 million less than in the prior year quarter.
Although the underlying asbestos environment remains essentially unchanged from recent periods payment trends have been modestly higher than we had previously anticipated resulting in a need to modestly add to these reserves.
Turning to financial strength.
All of our indicators remain in excellent shape.
Holding company liquidity of $2.04 billion and all of our capital ratios were at or better than their target levels.
Our debt-to-total capital ratio now stands at 21.9% down from 23.4% at the beginning of the year and well within its target range.
Net unrealized investment gains ended the quarter at $5.08 billion before tax increasing by over $500 million during the quarter while book value per share rose to $67.81 9% higher than the beginning of the year and 11% higher than a year ago.
And during the quarter we returned $529 million to our shareholders through a combination of dividends of $179 million and common share repurchases of $350 million bringing our total dollars return to shareholders to $1.57 billion year-to-date.
I should also note that due to the strength of our year-to-date operating results we have generated more excess capital than we have returned to our shareholder so far this year which is strictly a matter of timing.
Our strategy of returning all excess capital to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and common share repurchases remains unchanged.
As such we expect that the dollar amount of our common share repurchases during the fourth quarter will be somewhat higher than the $350 million quarterly run rate of share repurchases we have been doing in recent quarters.
With that let's turn to Brian.
Thanks Jay.
So very strong results.
And from an insurance operations perspective I believe there are 3 key takeaways that apply across all 3 business segments: First we're really pleased with the progress we've made on our strategy to improve margin both in the quarter and year-to-date; second given the interest rate environment the weather volatility and loss trend we need to continue to execute on this strategy; and finally we see opportunity for better results in those areas of our commercial business that are at the lower end of the return spectrum and in the case of Personal Insurance where weather losses have been most challenging.
With that let me go to the specific segment results.
Beginning with Business Insurance.
Operating income was up 85% year-over-year with catastrophe losses lower and favorable prior year development higher.
Excluding these impacts operating income was $549 million up nearly 36% from the prior year quarter and the combined ratio improved more than 6 points.
The strong results this quarter were driven primarily by earned rate increases in excess of loss cost trends and lower non-cat weather-related losses.
Looking at the production statistics starting on Page 9 we saw renewal premium change pure rate and retention all increased in the quarter.
Renewal premium change was 9.3%; rate 7.8% and retention was above 81%.
The rate progress that we continued to achieve was broad-based with increases between 6% and 10% across all lines led by Workers' Compensation and Commercial Auto.
These increases in pricing along with the growth in exposures and audit premiums helped to drive net written premiums up 5% year-over-year.
New business was somewhat lower in the quarter as it has been for the last several quarters.
Over time pricing on the new business we've written has improved.
But given our strategy to improve margins we remain very comfortable with the volume tradeoff.
We're obviously pleased with the aggregate production results but are even more pleased when we look at our execution on a more granular basis.
Slide 13 shows our renewal rate change and retention data for Commercial Accounts for both the second and third quarters segmented by the individual accounts long-term loss ratio.
We have shown you this data before but are now adding a comparison to last quarter.
The bars on the left represent our best-performing business accounts with long-term loss ratios of less than 60%.
And the bars on the right represent our worst-performing business accounts with long-term loss ratios exceeding 90%.
For context the bulk of our business is in the less than 60% loss ratio band while about 15% falls in the greater than 90% band.
You can see on the slide that for our best-performing business rate has held steady while retention improved modestly from the second quarter.
In the middle tier rate improved over 2.5 points while retention increased nearly 5 points.
And for our worst-performing business rate increased over 1 point to 18% while retention improved slightly.
What this data tells us is that we're doing a great job of retaining our best business improving the profitability of the middle tier and that we have an opportunity to potentially get higher rate increases on our poor performing accounts.
So as we've said many times it's not a one-size-fits-all strategy and you can see that very clearly in this data.
As you evaluate the slide it emphasizes several points: First actual pricing and underwriting decisions are made on an individual account basis and include many additional dimensions beyond loss ratio; second the exhibit presents highly summarized data and we actually measure and manage our performance on a much more granular level by business product line industry and geography; and finally key to this analysis is our ability to measure returns on allocated capital at the individual account level for these individually underwritten businesses.
Slide 13 focuses on Commercial Accounts which is our largest individually underwritten middle-market business.
But our focused pricing and underwriting approach also applies to our commercial flow business Select Express which is the small account end of our Select business.
If we were to display the Select Express business in a similar fashion as we did for Commercial Accounts you would get a broad array.
In terms of loss ratio the CMP product would be in the middle tier.
And similar to the middle tier for Commercial Accounts we're improving profitability in the case of Select Express with renewal premium change on CMP in the mid-teens.
Our monoline Commercial Auto product within express which is less than $100 million of written premium would be at the poorer performing end of the spectrum.
And so where our data analytics suggest for the Select Express book we are focused on underwriting and pricing actions.
Again this is another example of how we apply our powerful analytic tools to drive superior results.
In the Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment we once again posted strong results with operating income for the quarter of $180 million.
This is down year-over-year due to a lower level of favorable prior year reserve development.
In Bond &amp; Financial Products net written premiums were down just slightly quarter-over-quarter as the continued decrease in surety volumes was partially offset by higher volumes in our Management Liability business notably in those areas that are producing higher returns.
In Management Liability renewal rate change which came in at 6% for the quarter has increased sequentially in each of the last 5 quarters.
It also increased from month to month within the quarter.
Management Liability retention was a strong 86% in the quarter.
In International net written premiums were up 24% or $66 million on a constant currency basis.
1/3 of that is due to lower surety volumes in Canada and our exit from personal lines in Ireland.
Nearly 1/3 is due to policies that were written last year with terms of around 18 months and so they didn't come up for renewal in the quarter and a smaller piece or about $12 million is due to disciplined underwriting in our businesses in Lloyd's in Canada.
The risk and reward work we've done in international continues to pay off as the underlying loss ratio continues to trend favorably.
In Personal Insurance results for the quarter benefited from a year-over-year decrease in the level of catastrophe losses along with an increase in favorable prior year reserve development.
Excluding cats and PYD operating income of $190 million was up 23% from the third quarter of 2011.
This increase along with the related improvement in the underlying combined ratio is largely attributable to favorable non-cat weather.
As we seek improved returns in this segment we are particularly pleased with the significant pricing gains we continue to achieve in both Auto and Home.
Auto renewal premium change was 8.7% for the third quarter up over 3 points from the second quarter while Homeowners was up over 1 point to 12.4%.
Turning to Auto margins.
We've achieved a meaningful written rate increase over the past few quarters which are just beginning to earn in.
In terms of loss trend severity continues to run at mid-single digits while frequency when mix adjusted is about flat.
So we're pleased with the progress we've made to this point but see the need to remain disciplined in our pricing strategy going forward.
In Homeowners the story continues to be about weather.
Roughly 60% of our loss dollars in Homeowners are driven by weather.
So obviously frequency and severity trends for this line are also driven by the weather.
Because of the volatility in weather in addition to the 12% renewal premium change that we achieved in the quarter we continued to aggressively pursue terms and conditions changes that both reduce risk and improve returns.
The rollout of these modifications is ongoing but our progress to date has been substantial.
In the last 12 months we've made underwriting guideline changes and increased deductibles in more than 40 states.
So we feel good about the progress but we see the need to continue to push these levers going forward.
With that let me turn it back over to Gabby.
Thank you.
Andre we are ready to start the Q&amp;A session.
And if I could please ask participants to please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide a breakout of the reserve release by business line within the commercial line.
So the $208 million outside of the A&amp;E just wondering where that broke out and specially with Worker's Comp wanting to see if that was net redundant and especially in recent accident years.
Yes this is Jay Benet.
So we look at what's taking price in terms of reserve development in Business Insurance.
As we said it's net about $41 million.
And if we look at the components of that property as a big component if we look at favorable loss development where did it come from the recent accident years 2011 was a big driver of that.
And we also had some better salvage and subrogation recoveries in some of the older years than we had expected.
Some other areas CMP same sort of thing in terms of the property-related items.
Worker's comp actually developed a little favorably mostly due to some of the tabular claims that we had for accident years 2010 and prior.
We had some strengthening of Commercial Auto given some of the claim severity that we've been seeing in recent accident years that we've been talking about.
But net-net as you saw everything was on -- was favorable.
Research Division</strong> And I guess I mean did that -- I appreciate the color.
I mean so the Worker's Comp was stable which is I think unique to Travelers.
But kind of stepping back I mean how should we think about where the reserve trends going overall.
For the industry overall I think the expectation is that redundancies would diminish.
Travelers has had an excellent reserve result.
But as this goes forward should we think of this redundancy as winding down? We don't make any predictions whatsoever about where our reserve development is going.
We make our best estimate every quarter and we stand by that.
And then as the data develops as more information comes in we adjust the reserves accordingly.
Research Division</strong> And just one more on comp and then the accident year '11 was there -- was that also favorable or was that deficient? In the quarter it was essentially breakeven.
It was a tiny bit -- we had a tiny bit of strengthening in the 2011 accident year in the third quarter.
It was under $10 million.
So this is kind of the quarterly analysis that we do to get things right and effectively given the size of the reserves we're talking about rounding them.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The underlying combined ratio improvement within the BI segment clearly very healthy.
Can you provide any color on which lines of business within the segment are exhibiting the most and/or least margin improvement? This is Brian Mike.
I would say it's pretty broad based.
As we've said comp and auto have been getting the most rate increases but the range across the lines is 6% to 10%.
So everybody is getting some significant rate.
As Jay Benet just mentioned Auto is one of the lines we're seeing a little more heat so we need the rate there.
But I think that by and large it's been really across the board with our products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of -- if you're getting -- what kind of rate increase are we getting in commercial auto then? Because it seems like we've been -- it feels like you guys have been getting healthy rate increases for a while now and you're still talking about margins not being that great in that line.
Yes.
I think about 9.
Yes 9 points in auto and comp was around 10 so those were at the top end of the spectrum.
Which I think it's consistent with what we've shown in the past.
We've talked about and others have talked about the bodily injury trends in the auto business both commercial And Personal.
And so that's been one of the reasons why we're getting those increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up in regards to rate increases across all of the segments.
Is there a dynamic of stronger momentum in some of the longer tail lines that are more impacted by the low interest rate environment? And are you at all surprised at how well retention is holding up in the face of the rate increases? I don't think there's any -- yes obviously as anybody looks at the economics of the product the longer tail lines which would be more significantly impacted by the investment yields that factors into how we think about it.
I'm not sure it factors into how the customers think about it so we work at it.
And on the retention thing I would go back to our comments on Slide 13.
So we're obviously pleased that aggregate retention is going up but it's really the texture underneath that we obsess about and are we keeping the right accounts.
So honestly I'm not really surprised that we've been able to execute in a way where we're keeping the best business.
And...
And certainly -- it's Jay Fishman.
And while the interest rate environment certainly plays a meaningful role in the evaluation it is just one factor.
And I'd make an observation that our Worker's Comp portfolio broadly and of course you can get different conclusions in different businesses but broadly speaking has actually been doing better.
I'm not sure Brian how you might characterize it better than what we perceive the rest of the industry to be or it just hasn't been -- it hasn't been in a situation where the rate need there has been enormous.
I'm not sure how to exactly characterize it.
But we're starting from -- we're starting from a position in Worker's Comp that was not as problematic as I think sort of conventional wisdom might have thought.
Well you can look at our line results for a good number of years and our performance in Worker's Comp has been significantly better than the industry.
We think that's due to a lot of things.
Risk selection.
We think our claim model around medical management is the best in the business and all that stuff really matters.
Well Gabby hosted an Analyst Day where there was a considerable amount of time spent in the nuts and bolts of Worker's Compensation management.
And really I think demonstrated clearly or at least attempted to demonstrate clearly the real competitive advantages that we bring to the Worker's Compensation line.
So again it's not that we're -- we are just not all in the same situation or the same environment.
And so I'd resist the temptation to just leap to the conclusion that long really needs help and short doesn't.
It's just more -- unfortunately more complicated than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I agree that you guys did demonstrate very well that you have guys have a best-in-class Worker's Comp business at Travelers at the Investor Day.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> You guys have done a great job of taking rates pretty significantly.
Just curious what you're seeing so far in the fourth quarter? And the reason I asked is because you've taken rate starting fourth quarter of last year.
So I just wanted to see if you're successful in getting significant rate on rate.
Yes Vinay this is Brian.
Let me take a shot and I'll start with we say it all the time but we're not prognosticators here.
We're not going to guess at what's going to happen in the future.
I'd point to 2 things.
Number one is what we saw in the third quarter we were encouraged by.
So the results that we were able to post the texture underneath the results and the dynamic and the feedback that we've gotten from our agents and our customers.
Anecdotally as we look at what we're working on in the fourth quarter because we've obviously got some view of that but it's anecdotal is similarly encouraging.
So we continue to see a little bit of progress here.
And at the end of the day whether it will be up a little or down a little we don't know.
But the anecdotes right now feel pretty good.
But we're also real cautious.
The world can change in 30 days and we'll see where we are at the end of the next quarter.
But that's our mood right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
The second question is how much of a benefit that you guys get from low non-cat weather? I think you mentioned that it was slightly below normal this quarter.
This is Jay Benet.
I think when you take a look at what's taking place in Business Insurance as an example you see a very strong increase -- I'm sorry increase in profitability decrease in the combined ratio.
And it's difficult to split out the components on an exact basis but I would say this at least a couple of points in there where favorable non-cat weather has influenced us.
And I think if you go over to PI you've got the same kind of result.
I don't know if it's couple of points or not but certainly working its way through and seeing some heads nodding around the table.
So I think a couple of points is probably right.
But it's a very -- it's truly a guesstimate because you're asking us to compare a level with whatever we thought normal might have been.
And I don't know that we know normal compared to anybody else.
So it's a challenging question to answer.
And again because you're asking for what was your experience relative to what you thought the experience would be I don't know if what we thought was the right number to begin with.
So that's the complexity.
Vinay let me -- it's Brian let me give you a perspective at what you might be looking for which is the margin expansion in BI we think was about 2.5 points of the combined ratio.
So the price over the earned rate over the loss trend dynamics.
So -- then the rest has got non-cat weather it's got other stuff that always -- large loss movement that goes through the quarter et cetera.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford &amp; Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So in the Q you seem to be guiding to -- for a continued pricing in the fourth quarter in 2013 and I'm trying not to be redundant in the last question.
But we're all trying to figure out how pricing -- how long pricing lasts.
And I'm wondering 2 questions -- well I'll ask them first and you guys can respond as 1Q.
First when you're actuaries do indication analysis how much more -- what's the output of that? How much more rate do you think you actually need to get to target accident year sort of ROEs and target accident year returns? And then separately Brian I'd love to just follow up you made the point about sort of visibility to a pipeline obviously you have the sense of what's going on in sort of actual production that you haven't yet reported.
But you also obviously have to file rate increases and -- across probably what 30% or 40% of your business at least where that's primarily sort of driving the rates you end up charging.
And I'm wondering if you can give us a sense of actually what's in the pipeline and what you think you'll be effective in written rate levels in the fourth quarter or '13 as we look forward.
Josh it's Jay Fishman I'll take the first part of your question.
We have not set a goal a threshold number at which we stop.
And it's driven by the fact that the environment remains really unpredictable and somewhat volatile.
Not only do you have the weather dynamic and obviously the interest rates which are -- at least the interest rate portion is quantifiable.
But you've also got the uncertainty of the fiscal cliff and what happens to the economy and all the factors around it.
So for the moment what we've decided to do is to continue to business it -- continue on business as usual continue to pursue what we're doing because we know that to produce the kind of returns I think investors will come to expect we need to do more.
So that's honestly as far as we've gone which is we're going to continue to do this and we'll see how we do.
And I have no idea what the competitive environment will be or what will happen to us.
It is nonetheless a very competitive environment and remains fragmented.
All we can do is tell you what we're intending to do for the next -- for the near-term outlook.
I don't even want to go beyond that.
All I want to do is to say in the near term this is what we're going to do and we'll evaluate how successful we are and do the data and analytics continue to show us that we're doing the right things and on the right track.
And we just don't have that goal line to say we're X months away from hitting it.
It's just -- we just don't have it and that's really all we can say on it is business as usual and we're going to keep going.
On the filings perspective you could -- someone could go and pull them.
I would say on the personal line side we don't have any real big filings in the works that are going to change where we are today.
So we took a pretty good bump up in Auto and that was because some things kicked in in different states and so a little bit of steady as she goes there.
In Select we've recently put in some filings which are just becoming effective.
And so we've got some momentum maybe there and those would be the 2 big places where we've got filed rates.
Where filings matter.
In Commercial Accounts really it's not a file environment we're really doing -- wrestling with that.
And I'll just kind of revert back to Brian's comment about the anecdotal observations.
It's still pretty early in the quarter.
And so what we're getting is feedback from our folks in the field who are in agents' offices every day renewing accounts and having conversations and getting a sense of what the market is.
And the anecdotal feedback -- and I wouldn't overemphasize it because it's -- it can change.
First of all it might not be right it might not be accurate of the real environment and it might change.
But the anecdotal feedback that we're getting is -- continues to be so far so good.
And so it's encouraging and gives us a basis for saying we're going to continue.
That's -- it's about as good as we can do right now for you.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Jay not -- just to paraphrase make sure I get it.
So basically looking out over your guys' planning horizon you're not going to give a target of course.
But ultimately you're going to march to your own drummer raise pricing sort of get to continued levels and the market's going to what the market's going to do but you're going to drive to sort of continued pricing momentum along the lines you've been doing thus far in 2012.
Well what I'm -- what we don't want to do is to tell you that with certainty that we're going to succeed because I don't know.
It's just -- it's been environment where every company decides its own strategies and has its own conversations with agents and brokers about individual accounts.
So all I can tell you with some degree of certainty is in the near-term how we're going to act.
That I can tell you because we drive that.
How the market responds and how competitors perceive the marketplace and what they do is well beyond our control.
The data that we have from the third quarter is encouraging that we're not hitting some wall.
The important thing -- the question that I asked definitely here is are we achieving what we're trying to achieve in the market? A lot of your -- not your questions particularly but many of the questions that we get seem to be are we asking for 20 and getting 8? Or are we asking for 8 and getting 8? And that actually is a relevant question and it really -- we're not trying to get 20.
We're not attempting.
We've always said from the beginning of this that it was going to be disciplined thoughtful account by account loss driven evaluated in the context of interest rate changes thinking about weather and most importantly nondisruptive nondisruptive to our agents and our brokers and our insureds.
We're trying to manage a business and relationships.
This is not a trading account.
It's real people with real businesses paying real bills and real agents that stand between us and we're just trying to manage this thoughtfully gently doing what we need to do to make sure our business remains viable and has substance to it but not doing it in the way that causes disruption.
So again I look back at the third quarter the data all says we're making that happen and gives us a basis for saying let's keep going.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess one question I have is when you look at your profitability and kind of what you've talked about from here what do you think is more important or how would you kind of prioritize the rate actions you're taking versus the actions you seem to be taking on the loss management side? And where do you think the industry is on those measures whether it's terms and conditions or infrastructure to help kind of push down claim cost? And just one follow-up.
Brian and I are going to split this.
I think if you looked at Business Insurance our strategy is predominantly rate driven.
We've always been a company that's been actively engaged helping our insureds manage and lower their losses.
We have a substantial risk management group.
They are involved and always have been with our insureds to try and help them manage their losses and do better business for them.
So that's -- our dynamic in Business Insurance really price driven rate driven.
In Personal Insurance underwriting terms and conditions play a much more significant role and I'm going to let Brian speak to that.
Yes I mean and I'd say clearly personal line heavily on the Homeowners side.
And to some degree more broadly property all around.
But the place where terms and conditions are really important is our Homeowners' book.
And just to give you a perspective.
Industry deductibles in the '70s were typical average $250 maybe a $500 deductible.
Now the average is probably a $500 deductible.
If we just kind of loss inflate that over the 40 years we think the average deductible should be somewhere around $2 000.
So the product has changed.
So we're driving deductibles.
We've actually been pretty successful historically in getting deductibles on the coastal hurricane exposed so that's not the issue.
The issue has been the inland tornado hail exposed and we're making real progress.
And so there that's important.
The other dynamic is underwriting and a lot of that is around roofs.
So age and quality of rood is an important underwriting decision now on time reporting on claims and is different in the policy in a lot of places than it was before.
So all of those pieces really matter on the property side.
And our hope in deductibles by the way is not unique to loss mitigation that's an important part of it.
But we also believe that customers shouldn't be buying more insurance than they need right? Insurance should be to protect for catastrophic events.
And we would encourage all insureds to not pay for more insurance than their own capacity to deal with losses would suggest.
And so part of this is not again not just loss mitigation important but it's also to make sure that we're doing the right things for our customers even if they don't always see it exactly that way.
It's a $500 deductible today becomes a policy that responds to a lost iPad and it just isn't the way a homeowners policy was really designed to be.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one question on the directors.
I know we haven't talked about it a lot recently.
But I mean it seems they kind of be floating along in terms of premiums are growing a little bit the drag on the combined ratio is about flat looks like 5% to 7% of earnings right now.
And what is the strategy there? I mean it's -- you've kind of been in this state for a little while.
At some point would you look at trying to get -- purchase something to help kind of build that platform? Or is it -- or is building it still kind of the expectation? Well we have been and continue to be in the test-and-learn phase.
It's -- and I don't mean test.
What I'm talking about is testing in the very specific dynamics of building the business whether it's how you get customers to respond or how you encourage a high conversion rate from response to quote.
And then most importantly how do you generate sales from quotes and that gets to not only the technology or interactive behavior at a call center but also to the pricing structure.
And so we're still in the phase of doing what we need to do to gain the learnings necessary to launch in effect sometime down the road a successful business.
This is not yet launched.
We are still in the test-and-learn arena and we have more work to do in that regard.
We're going to resist the temptation.
We've done it -- I've certainly in the old old Travelers days have been involved into one where we launched a program way too early and had a marketing success and a financial disappointment.
And that's a real problem.
And so we're going to resist the temptation to do this early.
There are always young customers coming along.
There's -- it's not as if there's a finite group of customers and they're there.
And once they have insurance they're gone.
We all get a day older every day and there's always another group of customers that are emerging that are getting drivers licenses that become young adults that need to buy insurance.
And so as we think about it that way we're more than willing to be patient and do it right.
More important to do it right than to do it quick and fix as we go.
So that's where we are.
Research Division</strong> And to the timeline from here is just kind of as it develops.
And do you feel like you're getting the learnings from it to kind of offset the cost that you're investing in it? And I'll stop.
Well we're certainly learning whether it offsets the cost or not ultimately depends upon whether we conclude that we have the ability to launch a successful business.
I mean if you're asking do we think that that's still -- are we still on track to do that? The answer is yes but nothing is ever certain.
And the real question that we're down to now as we've said this repeatedly we are charging the same price in our direct channel that we charge in our agent channel because it is the only price that we know.
And the real question is going to be in that kind of framework can we actually write a policy underwrite a risk and produce a reasonable return based on that whereas there's some other pricing structure that's going to be necessary? And it's going to take us some time to figure that one out.
If we end up concluding that we have everything that's necessary to build a business yes we will recover these costs.
If it turns out that we ultimately conclude we can't then unfortunately we won't.
So the substance of your question is is a challenge to answer but I -- but we still feel pretty good here.
The people working on it are first-rate people.
They -- one of the things and I've said this before I used to think this was an insurance business.
It actually is a lot more about human dynamics and technology management than it is about insurance.
And it took a little time for us to even understand that.
I think we've got people from outside the insurance industry with real expertise in this arena and we are learning a lot really a lot and we're hopeful is sort of where it stands.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on 2 items.
The first is the exposure growth in Business Insurance.
Based on what you sort of see as the forward-looking indicators to what extent might that pick up over time? We're looking at each other here trying to figure out what do we know in the data and what do we see.
It's -- first one of the things we have learned is that notwithstanding the fact that intuitively we keep thinking that the exposure data is going to turn out to be predictive of the overall economy and we've spent some time trying to actually link those up and in effect build an index around it.
It's just not nearly as predictive as we might hope.
If you look at the data broadly I think what you would characterize it as is sluggish growth.
Now those are words against some numbers but that's kind of what we see.
Now it's -- we should be careful not to confuse the dynamics that we measure in exposure to GDP.
We're measuring payroll we're measuring projected sales we're measuring trucks on the road we're measuring real estate square feet.
And as we all know you can have recoveries that have -- jobless recoveries not my words words other people have used.
And so our data suggests sluggish is what you'd see but I'd be careful to link that up to a conclusion about GDP.
It's not nearly as predictive as we might have hoped.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next issue on the return of capital.
I think in the past Travelers has talked about returning in terms of the combined share buyback and shareholder dividend having that equal to around 100% of operating income.
And I think on track year-to-date it's around 75%.
So based on the commentary that that will probably be higher in 4Q versus 3Q I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you feel confident that could get closer to 100% as we think about next year.
Jay this is Jay Benet.
As we said we do these things based upon expectations.
And thankfully we have a good problem that our earnings were stronger than our expectations so we created excess capital.
So it really is a matter of timing as to when we repurchase shares.
The expectation as we said for the fourth quarter is to do something higher than what we've been doing on a run-rate basis for the first 3 quarters.
And as we say in our disclosures there's lots of things that go into that decision.
There's capital that we need to support the growth of the business.
There's capital that we perhaps need or cash that we need to deal with what's taking place in the funding of our pension plans.
I might add that we don't have a very large outstanding pension plan given the history of the company.
But when you have interest rates as low as we have today we want to make sure that the thing is properly funded against the assets.
So we'll look in all of that but at this point what we could say is that we have created the excess capital beyond what we need at this stage and we haven't bought it back at the same rate so we will be increasing it.
And over time which I think is really the critical phrase over time it will be the earnings that will drive the amount of capital that we return to shareholders both in the form of dividends as well as the share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And I just want to clarify a prior response.
I think there was a question about pace of rate increases in BI in 4Q.
Now you were saying roughly similar to 3Q and I just want to clarify that that using the 7.8% rate increase that was in 3Q is sort of the baseline.
No no.
You've misheard that I'm afraid.
We were asked the question and we said we don't make predictions and we're certainly not prognosticating on rate gains.
What I think Brian said was that the anecdotal feedback and that's all it is it's not data it's just anecdotal feedback just suggests so far that the fourth quarter is so far is sort of looking the same way the third quarter did.
Don't over read that.
There's no precision in that comment other than conversation.
That's all it is.
But if we had heard from people out in the field that something substantive had changed that there'd been some meaningful difference in the environment that I think is important.
We've not heard that.
We just heard yes it's about the same.
Now it's going to be a matter of what accounts actually come up for renewal what's the mix where on that grid do they fall what lines of business.
So no predictions whatsoever.
And all we were doing there was providing the anecdotal feedback that fourth quarter is sort of so far so good.
Bill is -- I'm looking at Bill and asking him to nod yes and he did.
So that's where we are.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> One clarifying question was just I think it was Brian who said about 250 basis points of kind of core margin improvement year-on-year.
And obviously the last quarter had a bunch of non-cat weather and large losses in it.
But I guess what I was trying to get a sense of was how was non-cat weather large loss activity in the current quarter relative to normal? Was that a benefit or not? And if it was any numbers you could put to it? I'm trying to -- so 6% -- if I look at the quarter-to-quarter combined ratio in Business Insurance was improved 6% CapEx ex-cat ex-PYD about 2.5% of that was the earned rate over the loss trend.
The next largest piece would have been the non-cat weather which was clearly better and then we'd had large losses I think that's the right sequence.
I don't have the exact numbers on each of those pieces but...
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I think I confused the issue.
I understand on a year-over-year basis why the non-cat weather and the large property is a such a big contributor.
I guess I was -- if you look at 3Q of this year individually would you characterize non-cat weather and large loss activity as kind of a nonfactor in kind of the way the underlying margin played out? Or was there any benefit to speak of? Because you've mentioned in the press release but I wasn't quite sure if that was just with respect to the year-over-year or there was something -- it was just a reversal of that a year ago or if it actually was also good this quarter.
Yes the bigger impact was the reversal of bad from a year ago with regard to non-cat weather activity.
But as it relates to the current quarter the current quarter also was very light in weather whether it was cat or non-cat.
So we did have a benefit in the current quarter from what we would otherwise consider to be normal.
And as Jay Fishman said before the consideration on normal has lots and lots of judgment in it.
So we're not going to sit here and say well it was worth 1 point 0.5 point or 1 point.
But what we can tell you is that the weather was benign in the third quarter and our results benefited from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then one question just on the construction surety volumes are in decline.
I was curious if you could get a sense -- give us a sense of how much of that is coming from commercial end markets versus residential end markets? And is there anything you see kind of as you look out that potentially could start to dampen that trend? Yes this is Brian.
I'll flip it to Alan.
But we don't do a lot of residential.
So...
It's way more driven by municipal finance and municipal construction so not very much of it would be coming from the residential side.
Research Division</strong> Okay but I would assume that...
Well we're not active in that market.
Our data is largely driven by the municipal arena but it's not because it's not the -- we don't know what's happening in the residential segment we're just not a real participant.
But way more of the surety market relates to municipal construction projects where there is a statutory requirement for the surety product.
So you don't have the same requirement or the same level of surety premium coming out of residential construction generally.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess kind of as a pass-through though to the municipal piece there's always part of that is extending services into new areas correct? So I guess on -- I'm just -- that was kind of what I was thinking -- asking the question was kind of what I had in mind completely recognize the comment.
The infrastructure buildings roads and other utilities to service development broadly.
But I certainly don't have at my fingertips have the breakout between that and say highway construction.
I wouldn't have that breakout.
Our final question comes from the line of Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to -- the one disconnect that I'm sort of wrestling with is the top line in other words premiums written and earned premiums.
The percentage gains year-over-year are just not even close to where rates are at and retentions look good.
So it seems to be coming down to new business.
So my first question I guess is it new business falloff that's sort of driving the lack of flow through the actual reported top line? And if it is I'm sort of wondering why do you think people are choosing not to join Travelers as much as they were before? So the short answer is yes it is primarily new business.
As you pointed out retentions are down slightly in most of our businesses but very solid and we feel great about those.
We're getting price increases.
Yes down slightly from historical norms.
From historical norms right.
And actually across Business Insurance for example the overall retention on a historical basis a very strong number.
Premium is up because we've got price exposure and audit premiums kicking through there.
But across much of our Business Insurance area and clearly in personal lines as we've executed on our strategy of improving margins and raising prices the new business marketplace has become more difficult.
And...
I think I'd separate the discussion into Commercial and Personal because I'm not sure they're nearly as similar to that.
But first just an observation business low exposure is a part of this 2 low exposure growth.
That's talking about the overall general economy.
In Business Insurance there is a phenomena that's been interesting to us.
We have historically tracked a relationship between renewal pricing and new pricing.
And in this quarter but also in the second the spread between for us -- I'm not speaking about a broad market comment here I'm only speaking about us.
The spread between renewal and new that we booked actually narrowed meaning it was better than historical standards would be.
So in the context of the new business that we're taking on we feel pretty good about it.
If there's an opportunity here if there is it's making sure that our folks who are working so hard and focused on renewal -- renewal retention and gaining rate don't ignore the new business opportunity.
I don't believe Greg and I can't prove it to you but I don't believe that it's people not choosing as your words not choosing to be with Travelers.
I think if anything here it's making sure that our folks have the energy as they go through the renewal process to make sure that they don't miss the opportunities in new that at these pricing levels any way are increasingly attractive.
And we are focused on that and suspect that -- if you talk to an underwriter they will tell you that renewing an account flat in a flat environment is pretty quick and pretty easy.
But if you're discussing a rate increase with a broker or an agent on an individual account it just takes more time.
A lot of accounts and a lot more time being absorbed in the renewal arena and we believe -- can't prove it to you that we believe that this is mostly an issue of emphasis and effort and attention more than it is some substantive dynamic around new business that's in any way problematic.
Can't prove it but that's what we believe sitting around the table.
In the Personal Insurance arena we think it's different.
There the combination of -- particularly in homeowners but also in auto the combination of rate and then in homeowners the change in the deductible strategies that Brian has spoken about has -- we're most certainly leading.
Again that's our observation.
We are leading in the market but responding to what we think are substantive issues the change in the weather the other dynamics around it.
And for the moment there are alternatives there are other companies that are available to new customers that may in fact be looking like they are less expensive.
You get into the whole deductible dynamic and how much you pay for it.
So on the Personal Insurance front we're watching that carefully.
It's almost -- personal it's almost like where we were in Commercial a year ago which is we were moving ahead and we were hopeful that we would be able to be successful with the strategy turned out of course at least so far that we have been.
In Business Insurance you've seen -- I'm sorry in Personal Insurance you've seen the rate gains come on particularly in the last 2 quarters as the filings have taken hold and combined with the underwriting and deductible dynamics we're watching it carefully and seeing if it will be successful in the new arena but only time will really tell.
I hope that's helpful and it's really a fulsome answer as we can provide.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is.
And just a quick follow-up then.
Turning just to the business side.
It sounds like that's a prioritization or a point of emphasis within the organization deciding in a new business versus retention.
I mean my understanding is a point of retention is -- has a far far better payback within your P&amp;L than new business.
Do the people within your organization get paid sort of the same for retention versus new business? Or in other words are they agnostic or are they actually pursuing what is -- where the highest payback is in the Travelers' P&amp;L which is go get rate on the current book? Well we can tell you how they're compensated.
I hope that they're reacting consistent with it but of course you never know.
We don't pay for production we don't pay for new we don't pay for renewal we pay for an overall evaluation of performance not only at an individual office level but actually right down to an individual underwriter level.
The data analytics package I spoke about earlier really makes it possible for us to have a very granular conversation with each of the frontline people about how they've done.
What you can't do is tell people that you really want to improve profitability and when they take the right steps even if that means that they lose an account that you somehow think that's a bad thing.
You have to embrace it and understand that it's a good thing.
So the numbers in and of themselves of production if you pay based to that you can get some not only unintended consequences but frankly it will make it difficult to employ the strategies that you know are right to improve profitability.
So our payment process is one of -- let's evaluate what each of them has done in the past 12 months as everybody else in this place is evaluated and we make the payments accordingly.
I do think that -- it is hard being a field person right now.
They are juggling lots of accounts negotiating renewals driving for rate having to do the analytics behind all that to make sure that the selections they make are thoughtful and smart.
And then you tell them and by the way don't forget to make sure that you're following up on new business opportunities.
I do believe -- yes and I can't prove it but I do believe that it is a matter of emphasis and time management far more than it is pricing out of the marketplace.
I have no indication that that's the case or that there's some substantive dynamic of customers choosing away from us.
I don't believe that either.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Nawi.
Very good.
Thank you very much for joining us.
And as always myself and Andrew Hersom are available for follow-up questions.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Tuesday January 22 2013.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Andre.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our fourth quarter 2012 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for your questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Given Storm Sandy we are very pleased to report fourth quarter net and operating income of $304 million and $278 million respectively.
For the full year we reported $2.4 billion of operating income and operating return on equity of 11% and a 9.8% return on equity.
Our financial and operational results for both the full year and the quarter were strong and demonstrate the success of the strategies we have implemented over the last few years.
In Business Insurance excluding National Accounts we continued to achieve meaningful positive rate gains of nearly 8% in the quarter while retentions continued to remain stable and new business remained at only marginally lower levels.
Our Management Liability businesses have also produced similar pricing successes over the past year achieving nearly 8% rate gains in the quarter.
The operating environment for our businesses remains the same.
Interest rates remain at historically low levels and weather patterns continue to be uncertain.
Catastrophe losses this year totaled $1.2 billion after tax making it another year with a very high level of catastrophe losses by historical standards.
As such we remain committed to our strategy of pursuing rate gains across all of our businesses in order to improve returns.
We are particularly pleased with the rate gains we've achieved over the past 2 years and the compounding effect we are now recording.
In Personal Insurance both our Home and Auto business were also significantly impacted by Storm Sandy.
Notwithstanding that impact we are especially pleased with our Agency Homeowners business which produced a 96.4% combined ratio for the full year and a 78.7% underlying combined ratio for the year.
In our Agency Auto business while we believe we are very much on the right path we are not yet satisfied with our results.
Our 99.2% underlying combined ratio for the year is not at a level that produces sufficient returns.
As we have discussed previously since the fourth quarter of 2011 we have been experiencing an increase in auto severity resulting in levels that have continue to exceed our expectations.
But with the rate increases we have already achieved earned rate gains exceeded our updated view of loss trend in the third and fourth quarters.
In this regard we are now achieving widening margins and we intend to continue this strategy.
Assuming that we continue to achieve rate gains at this level and the loss trend does not materially increase from current levels this will result in improved underwriting profitability in the line.
Brian will discuss this in more detail later.
Turning to capital management we remain committed to our strategy of returning excess capital to shareholders.
In that regard we repurchased $400 million of stock in the quarter bringing total capital return to shareholders in 2012 to over $2.1 billion including $700 million of dividends.
Since embarking on our long-term strategy of returning excess capital to shareholders in 2006 we have reduced our shares outstanding by $362 million or 52%.
Just another quick word on Sandy.
The storm had a significant human impact on Travelers as well as our customers and employees.
We're extremely grateful to all the individuals who made personal sacrifices to help us deliver on the promise we extend with each one of our policies.
Storm Sandy produced the largest number of claim notices in our history and even in this event we were able to handle virtually all non-NFIP claims with our own adjusters.
Just to give you a few highlights in total nearly 5 000 employees contributed to our response we followed up with 80% of all claimants within 48 hours after their initial claim report and virtually 100% were recontacted within 72 hours and we paid or resolved approximately 90% of our Personal Insurance non-NFIP claim estimates within 30 days of the first loss notice.
These are really solid results that I was able to witness firsthand.
Our claims group really makes us proud.
In closing we remain very pleased with the ability to deliver rate improvements across all our segments and generate superior returns over time.
We entered 2013 with a real sense of optimism based on the strength of our competitive position.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
Let me begin by stating that as always we've maintained our strong cash position ending the year with holding company liquidity of just over $2 billion.
Operating cash flows were over $450 million for the quarter despite the high claim payments related to Storm Sandy as well as a discretionary $150 million contribution that we made to our qualified pension plan to maintain its high funding level even in this extremely low interest rate environment.
Note too that for the full year we generated over $3.2 billion of operating cash flows and as Jay said we returned over $2.1 billion of excess capital to our shareholders consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy.
Turning to reserve development.
We once again experienced net favorable prior year reserve development on a consolidated basis $222 million pretax for the quarter up from $126 million in the prior-year quarter.
Also as has been the case throughout the year each of our business segments experienced favorable development.
Business Insurance accounted for a little over half of this quarter's total driven by better-than-expected loss experience related to last year's catastrophes lower-than-expected claim department expenses or ULAE and a modest improvement in Workers' Comp reserves.
Most of the rest of this quarter's favorable development came from the Bond &amp; Financial Products businesses within FP&amp;II and surety and management liability.
For the full year net favorable prior year reserve development on a consolidated basis was $940 million pretax up from $715 million in the prior year.
I'd also like to share with you a preliminary view of what our 2012 Schedule P will look like when it's filed.
All accident years other than 2011 have developed favorably including accident years 2002 and prior notwithstanding the A&amp;E charges we recorded earlier in the year.
Unfavorable development related to the 2011 accident year was small only approximately $155 million pretax that was mostly due to higher-than-expected severity in Commercial and Personal Auto.
Similarly looking at our preliminary Schedule P data on a product line rather than on an accident year basis shows that all of our product lines with the exception of Commercial and Personal Auto experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2012.
Commercial and Personal Auto developed unfavorably on a pretax basis by only approximately $110 million and $25 million respectively again driven by the 2011 accident year.
Finally I would note that all of our capital ratios remained at or better than our target levels at the end of the year.
Net unrealized investment gains which were up for the full year decreased slightly during the quarter to almost $4.8 billion pretax or $3.1 billion after-tax while book value per share was $67.31 or 8% higher than at the beginning of the year.
So with that let me turn things over to Brian.
Thanks Jay.
I'm going to give an overview of the segment results beginning with Business Insurance.
Although operating income was down quarter-over-quarter in Business Insurance due to the losses from Storm Sandy the fundamentals of the business continued to strengthen.
As Jay just mentioned prior year reserve development was favorable and higher than last year and the underlying combined ratio of 92.8% was a 4-point improvement from the fourth quarter of 2011.
On a full year basis the underlying combined ratio improved more than 3 points year-over-year with about 2 points of that improvement due to earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trend.
Looking at the production statistics starting on Page 9 retention continued to be strong at 80% while new business was up slightly versus both the previous quarter and the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net written premiums increased 6% in the quarter with the largest increase in Workers' Comp driven by higher pricing on our guarantee cost business and growth in residual market pools.
Drilling into the pricing results renewal premium change was 10% up about 1 point from the third quarter driven by pure rate increases of 8% and exposure of 2%.
The 8% rate gains we achieved this quarter were up slightly from the third quarter and up 2 points from the 6% that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The rate increases ranged from 6% to 10% across all lines and were once again led by Workers' Compensation and Commercial Auto.
I would note that within the quarter rate change was highest in the month of December with total Business Insurance rate change of 8.3% and Commercial Accounts rate change of 9.8%.
Loss trend excluding catastrophes has remained at approximately 4% overall.
Specifically the loss trend concerns in Workers' Comp and Commercial Auto that we spoke about several quarters ago appear to have mitigated and are trending toward long-term historical trends.
So overall excluding weather a very stable picture.
Now I'd like to take a moment to discuss our results in Select our small commercial business.
In this business we are pleased with the performance of our platform and operational dynamics and we've seen great success in the marketplace.
On the pricing side as seen on the data on Slide 10 we've also made significant progress.
Renewal premium change this quarter was nearly 12% up consistently over the past 2 years.
Along with these pricing gains retention was up 1 point in each of the last 3 quarters coming in at 78% this quarter.
New business was down somewhat from recent quarters due to an increase in new business pricing.
These pricing and underwriting actions have had a meaningful impact on our product profit margins in this business and we are very pleased with the results to date.
So summarizing the entire Business Insurance segment we were able to sustain our level of rate gains this quarter on top of the 6% gains from the prior-year quarter.
This compounding of pure price improvement combined with the 4% underlying loss trend has had a meaningful impact on returns.
However given the ongoing weather volatility and challenging investment return environment we will continue to -- we continue to see the need to execute on our targeted pricing strategy.
In the Financial Professional &amp; International segment our operating income decreased by 14% due entirely to the impact of Sandy largely in our Lloyd's business.
The underlying combined ratio improved about 3 points for both the quarter and full year driven primarily by increased rate in portfolio management in our Management Liability business as well as risk selection in International.
In Bond &amp; Financial products net written premiums were flat quarter-over-quarter with higher production in Management Liability offset by continued decline in surety volume.
In Management Liability retention remained strong at 85% in the quarter while pure rate gains increased to 8% making this the sixth consecutive quarter of sequentially increasing rate.
Renewal premium change was 6% which included negative exposure of 2% in the quarter driven by a reduction in multiyear policies.
In International net written premiums were up about 4% or $12 million on a constant currency basis.
The increase was driven by results in the U.K.
and somewhat lower levels of seeded premium partially offset by lower volume in the Canadian surety market.
The International underlying loss ratio continues to trend favorably on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
I'd also like to note that in December we exercised our option to increase our ownership interest in the Brazilian joint venture from round numbers 43% to 49%.
The results in Brazil have been very good and we are pleased with our progress there.
In Personal Insurance fourth quarter results were significantly impacted by Sandy with after-tax cat losses of $370 million for the segment.
Excluding the impact of cats and favorable prior year development the underlying combined ratio improved over 9 points for the quarter and nearly 5 points on a full year basis.
However to really understand the dynamics in the segment results we need to look at Homeowners and Auto separately because they are somewhat different stories.
In Auto As Jay mentioned in his opening comments we are not yet satisfied with our performance but believe we're on the path to improving our results.
We continue to be very pleased with pricing gains with renewal premium change of 9% up about 1 point from the third quarter and up 5 points from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Retention remained solid at 81% but as anticipated our new business volumes have been impacted by our pricing actions.
These pricing actions are in response to the severity challenges across all coverages that we began speaking to you about in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The physical damage severity pressures we saw in 2011 persisted through the first half of 2012 but have since returned to near-normal levels.
The bodily injury severity trends however have continued at elevated levels throughout the year.
In addition to expected general inflation we believe this increase in bodily injury trend is a result of more severe accidents.
There are a number of environmental factors that can contribute to this trend for example data recently released by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shows road deaths for the first 9 months of 2012 increased 7% year-over-year the largest such increase since 1975.
So over the last 2 quarters severity for all coverages is running just over 5%.
With mix adjusted frequency about flat overall loss trend is in the 5% range.
Given the renewal premium change we've been able to achieve over the last 4 quarters earned rate is now more than offsetting the aggregate loss trend.
This margin expansion is somewhat difficult to see in our reported results due to prior period adjustments.
On the Agency Auto combined ratio exhibit on Page 16 you can see these adjustments and the resulting adjusted underlying combined -- GAAP combined ratio which improved about 1 point for both the quarter and full year.
So on a go-forward basis as you heard Jay say at our current level of rate gains and assuming loss trend does not increase materially from current levels this will result in improved underwriting profitability in the line.
Turning to Home pricing was also very strong.
Renewal premium change coming in at 13% was up 1 point from the third quarter and up 5 points from the fourth quarter of last year.
Retention continued to be strong at 84% while new business volume was lower than recent quarters due to the execution of our pricing strategy higher deductibles and other profitability initiatives.
Given these initiatives our core underwriting margins are seeing significant improvement.
However it is difficult to evaluate this line's performance excluding catastrophes especially given the last 2 years experience.
Accordingly with the ongoing volatility of weather patterns we will continue to seek improved underwriting and policy pricing terms and conditions.
We feel good about the progress we've made in the Personal Insurance segment but challenges remain.
We will continue to locally execute rate increases underwriting changes and modifications to terms and conditions to further improve the risk profile and profitability of this business.
So in summary looking across all the business segments let me reiterate what you've heard from us for the last several quarters.
We are encouraged that we've been able to successfully execute a strategy that has resulted in tangible improvements in our underlying underwriting margins.
We believe that these pricing and underwriting actions are appropriate given the current level of investment returns weather volatility and general loss trend and we are well positioned to continue to thoughtfully execute on our strategy in 2013.
With that let me turn it over to Gabby.
Great.
We will now begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Andre we're ready to begin.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the Sandy loss.
I'm just trying to get a sense of where you might be in the kind of the finality of your loss estimates.
I'm particularly interested in kind of cost inflation on reconstruction if there's a tail from business interruption? And if you can quantify closed versus open claims at this point.
So one is -- this is Brian.
Obviously with this magnitude of event there are always claims and issues that are still outstanding but broadly speaking there's no significant issue that we're looking at from the business interruption or liability or whatever side that leaves us feeling that there's a big tail.
I'd turn to Doreen on the specifics with the closed claims.
If you've got some of that data Doreen and want to share it.
I do Brian.
This is Doreen Spadorcia.
Jay quoted you some statistics as to where we were 30 days from thinking -- reported from first notice of loss.
At this point since we're further on than 30 days probably on the property side we're at about 95% of our losses in that position.
In terms of tail issues on Auto we still have salvage losses to collect and we're in the middle of doing that but those we've factored in.
And on Boat &amp; Yacht that those losses tend to take a little bit longer as well but again all of them have been factored into our analysis.
So we're pretty well through most of those claims that were reported.
And Doreen my comments were to Personal Insurance; your comments were to all lines.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Thank you Jay.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify you're saying you're 95% closed on those property claims? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Wow.
And then just on would -- just one on demand surge a lot of reconstruction going on in New Jersey.
Is that becoming an issue like it has with past events or is that under control? I would say at this point our estimates of what we saw when we initially evaluated the property our holdings we always have situations Randy when someone has additional damage and we look at those.
And that's kind of a normal course.
But at this point nothing out of the ordinary.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Yes just 2 questions.
The first is in the Personal Auto side the PIF count shrank a bit more than it had been.
It looks like renewal is relatively stable new business is down.
I'm wondering if you could just give us some color around that PIF growth because that was down a bit more than it had been and more than we had expected.
Jay this is Jay Fishman.
I think you're analyzing it correctly.
The PIF is being impacted by our pricing increases.
We recognize that we're -- in some areas that there are less expensive alternatives that are available to agents and in some cases they're embracing it.
Our pricing strategy is based on what our loss trends look like and the severity dynamic is real and it is substantive and doesn't appear -- we may be wrong about this but it doesn't appear to be a Travelers-only phenomena.
This seems to be broad-based.
So we're taking the actions that we know we have to to produce appropriate returns over time.
And if the policies in force shrink somewhat that's fine and we will just continue to price it as we know have to to achieve the returns that we speak about.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Second question in the past you have given some discussion or guidance around capital management kind of forward-looking.
As you look at 2013 can you talk about your buyback expectations relative to your earnings? Jay this is Jay Benet.
I'd go back to the wording that we had in the Ks and the Qs.
Nothing's really changed.
We have earnings that we're going to generating.
From those earnings we need to have capital to support whatever business growth we have.
There may be some needs like pension contributions into our qualified plan whatever.
We lay those out.
But ultimately the idea behind our capital management strategy is to return all the excess capital that we have to the shareholders and that'll go back to shareholders in the form of dividends as well as common stock repurchases.
And it's really going to be driven by the level of earnings ultimately.
Let me -- it's Jay Fishman.
Let me just come back with one sentence on the PIF count.
You did see it but I just want to make sure it's clear.
Retention remains stable in Auto.
We are not losing existing accounts.
What we have done is experience a lower level of new business than historical trends but retention importantly is remaining stable.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions here for you.
The first one I was hoping Jay and Brian maybe you could comment about where we are with respect to rate adequacy in the Business Insurance area.
If I look at it on an at or near basis it looks like you're probably kind of low to mid-teens ROEs on that business right now is that correct? Well we -- Brian it's Jay Fishman.
We haven't disclosed what our product line returns are.
I think you can look at the overall business and really make 2 adjustments that are available to you and you'll come up with what I think a reasonable way to think about return on equity is.
One is you can easily eliminate the favorable development.
And two I think you can adjust the catastrophe costs back to what a more normal run rate would look like.
Those 2 are not identical in the absolute level but they're actually pretty close.
They just about cancel each other out.
And if you do that you'll get to a business ROE overall that's round numbers.
And I'm not being precise here because I don't have it in my hand but round numbers it's about 10%.
Now in terms of -- 10% to 11% let's say and people are looking at me.
And the real question that you're posing that's so difficult to answer is rate adequacy in the environment where the risk-free rate is 1.5%.
We've talked about -- in previous quarters we've talked about maintaining our aspirational goal of mid-teens return on equity over time.
But we've said that under the current environment it's simply not achievable and it remains not achievable.
And I think most of us who are responsible for managing complex financial businesses are wrestling with if your cost of equity at the moment is sitting in the 7% to 8% range what is rate adequacy what is return adequacy in this environment? This is unprecedented and I spend -- we spend a fair amount of our time thinking about what level of returns is really appropriate.
Because I think one of the risks in managing any business and I think we saw it in 2008 is when management decides that it's going to try and get blood from a stone it just doesn't happen.
But if you look at it overall we're sort of in that 10% to 11% range at the moment and a bunch of factors coming at us.
But I know you have a longer question but that's sort of where we sit at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the second one is a little more detail on the Commercial Auto loss trend situation there.
Is it physical damage is it liability what's going on with that line? Within Commercial Auto it's not dissimilar to the conversation we just had on Personal Auto.
So it's fundamentally severity-driven.
And at this point the bigger severity issue is on the bodily injury side.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> The accident year combined in Business Insurance improved by -- improved materially 400 basis points.
Was that all quarter-to-quarter or was there some catch-up from other quarters this year? Yes this is Jay Benet.
There really aren't any catch-up adjustments relating to earlier quarters in the year.
So that's -- with minor variation on that that's a pure number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's -- it was a very good number.
Could you ballpark that -- and not looking for an exact number but I mean how much of that 400 basis point improvement is from nonrenewing poor business versus getting rate versus loss trend and existing business? So this is Brian.
Hard to precisely segment that but I did say in my comments we're getting about 2 points from pure rate over the loss trend now.
And then there's always other stuff within a quarter that's moving within the loss ratio so the non-cat weather other large losses fire losses et cetera will be volatile.
And some of that was moving to the good.
So the biggest driver is the rate in excess of loss trend which is 3 points? Okay 3 points in the quarter -- in the quarter yes right.
So that's the biggest piece of it.
Obviously there's something with the re-underwriting issues in a lasered way that you're talking about but that is not the broad-based issue moving through the results.
And we don't track because I wouldn't know how candidly to track the improvement in profitability that resulted from nonrenewing accounts.
That's -- specifically to your question that's just not something that I -- that we measure or keep track of.
Our next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I can go back to Agency Auto really quickly I think when we saw the decelerating new business despite maybe incremental improvements in pricing does not mean that the environment is becoming more competitive? Well I don't think it's an incremental improvement in pricing.
I'd use a different word and the kind of pricing change that's occurred here is substantial.
And at the Agency Auto level with increasing use of comparative raters at the agency level pricing is certainly more important we suspect than it was let's say 5 or 6 years ago.
A greater ability technological change at the agency level for agents to generate multiple quotes relatively quickly and efficiently so that it's -- the comparison process is just easier.
So I think that that's really what's driving it.
This is a meaningful change in pricing driven by a meaningful change in loss trend and weather and interest rates and all that goes with it and the price is the price and it'll show up on comparative raters.
I don't believe I may be wrong about this but I don't believe that the Agency Auto business has become a business where the only thing that matters is price.
We do believe that agents have views about companies and their ability to serve individual customers in certain ways and that's what we've traded on all these years and continue to now.
So whatever the new business dynamics are they are.
We have a really strong philosophy here which is that volume is not a goal it's a result.
If we do all the things that are right and we're moving in the right direction the revenues the premiums will be what they'll be and then we manage the business accordingly.
And that's really what you're seeing in Personal Auto.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very thorough.
The tax rate on the non-net investment income component was a lot lower than I think it's been in prior quarters.
I was hoping someone can explain that.
I'm not sure that's the case.
So if you take a look at the tax accruals if you were to just separate investment income from the rest of earnings effectively what you do is you take round numbers 35% of the non-investment income that's the tax provision or tax benefit if there's an underwriting loss.
And then as it relates to the investment income we give you the effective tax rates.
So I think if you do the arithmetic you really come very close to what the tax provisions are.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I had one question just kind of looking over the last couple years looks like you've got 8 points of rate in Business Insurance over the last 12 months or so and then another almost 7 points the year before that.
So 15 points in the aggregate of a couple years looks like combined ratio is a bit better.
Just trying to understand does that mean that more rate -- we should expect more rate to earn through over the next 12 months? How much of that dynamic is due to mix changes the Commercial Auto stuff that Jay mentioned upfront or is there something else? And I just have one follow-up.
I think we'll answer this in a couple of pieces.
First obviously written rate becomes earned rate so yes what we've written in these last several quarters will convert to earned over the next several quarters and that's just arithmetic.
The -- our intent here is to continue.
This was always a granular active pricing strategy.
We've commented before we're not big believers here in sort of mythical cycles that carry the industry up and then carry it down.
We think that it is one agent one underwriter and one account at a time.
So this strategy here has been extremely active and very granular and applied to individual accounts putting rate at accounts that need it taking all of the factors into account: taking interest rates taking the perspective of changing weather and taking some of the loss trend that affect some of the lines into account.
So that's going to be the -- that's going to be our prospective policy and we're going to continue to do that.
I don't know if you have any...
Well specifically on the mix issue it's not fundamentally a mix issue.
We've talked for a number of quarters now that although Commercial Auto and comp are at the higher end of the rate change grid for us it's really pretty broad based and we're getting between 6 and 10 points in all lines.
And we haven't really shifted our line mix significantly at all.
So that's not driving it.
We shared with you in the last quarter in the previous quarters the breakdown of the accounts the segments.
The one we show you are the ones that track profitability a long-term profitability combined ratio by account -- loss ratio by account actually.
And we said in the last quarter and before that that our greatest opportunity was in those segments of the accounts that were at the low end of the profitability spectrum.
We still believe that to be true that the greatest opportunity for us in terms of improving profitability is at that less-profitable end of the segment which again speaks to the granular nature of the strategy that we're applying.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I just wanted to revisit maybe direct.
I mean we've talked about it maybe a little while back.
How are you thinking about that? It looks like the first time that PIF started to fall a bit maybe ratio.
I don't know if that's advertising came down a bit in the quarter on a sequential basis.
How are you thinking about that? And what is your outlook for when that business needs to rightsize in order for that to be an area of continued investment? No it's a pleasure.
In the direct business we've been involved for the last I don't know several quarters 2 maybe 3 something like that in a very granular test of elasticity pricing strategy applied in I -- 2 or 3 states I -- where we really didn't have a robust agency business.
And we were able to change the pricing in those states both agency and direct to begin to test the elasticity of demand in the direct arena.
That's one of the reasons why the advertising spend is down because it's being applied in a very narrow way in these last several months just trying to drive activity in these 2 states I'm told.
And the results have been extremely informative and encouraging in that we're getting increasingly close or closer to having a pricing schedule a pricing strategy that we think can work in the direct arena and can be applied both at reasonable marketing success we believe as well as an underwriting success.
But we remain some distance away yet from what I would call launching in a broad way but we continue to make real progress and are encouraged by the results.
There's nothing that causes us to think that we should discontinue the spend on it.
Quite the contrary we feel really encouraged about what we're learning and discovering.
And as I've always said the thing that we could do wrong here is have a marketing success and a financial failure.
And that would not be acceptable here so we're going to continue to take our time and make sure that when we aggressively approach the business that we do so with all the requisite knowledge and learning and skills and with a high degree of confidence in the success of the program.
And this line is -- Mr.
Zaremski your line is open.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I was hoping to better understand the underlying margin improvement drivers within Home.
So other than pricing is there quantifiable elements coming from geographic culling and/or terms of condition changes that you guys have been talking about for a while? Well first of all the biggest driver is pricing.
There's no question about that.
And...
Well and weather.
Yes and there's been a number of things.
In the fourth quarter of last year we had an unusually high concentration of fire-related losses.
This year we had a low level of fire-related losses relative to some norms.
In addition to that there was a little more weather in the fourth quarter of last year than this year.
So Brian spoke before about just things that happened on a quarter-to-quarter basis that caused some variations but those along with the major item being loss cost trend x weather which is a hard thing to really talk about as it relates to Homeowners being lower than earned rate.
And if you look at those 3 components the lower fire losses the lower weather-related losses as well as earned rate over loss trend then that's really what's making up the difference.
And to answer your question directly: We really don't have a metric to convey to you the impact of let's say increasing deductibles on the profitability of the business.
We would have to go back and rerun the losses using the deductibles that existed previously and that's just not possible for us to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly as a follow-up to the questions about the capital management for 2013.
So I see you've contributed I think over a couple hundred million dollars to the pension this year and you have $500 million of debt coming due in a couple months.
In regards to the pension if interest rates stay low should we expect a similar contribution? And are you guys considering refi-ing with that? Let's talk about the pension first.
If you strip away all that takes place in valuing the -- a PBO versus the assets there's a normal level of earned credit if you will that runs through the numbers.
And it's about $100 million round numbers a year.
So if everything worked in accordance with the assumptions in a steady state the pension contribution would be about that.
The reason the pension contribution is higher this year is things don't work as a steady state.
We had a good return on the assets.
On the other hand when you look at the valuation of the pension benefit obligation as of 12/31 which is a spot rate interest concept that you use you had very very low interest rates at that point in time.
So we looked at that and said "Gee on balance it feels like $200 million is the right number to put in this year." It got us to a funding level that was high approximately 90% which is where we started the year.
If rates spike up we're not going to be terribly overfunded.
We'll just adjust future funding accordingly.
And that would be a nice position to be in frankly if rates went up a bit.
But $100 million is what we think about as more of a normal level on a year-by-year basis.
As it relates to the debt as we generally do we try to maintain full flexibility in dealing with our capital position.
So we ended the year as I said earlier with over $2 billion of holding company liquidity which allows us to be in a position of paying the debt when the debt's due to avoid any kind of liquidity concerns.
And then we'll just continue to evaluate what the proper structure of our balance sheet is going forward based on interest rates and based on how we feel.
But certainly in terms of capacity we have the capacity to keep the debt ratio just where it is today if we so choose.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
My first question is on your catastrophe reinsurance coverage which I know expires on June 30.
And maybe this is a bit too early: The -- when you new look towards 2013 2014 do you think your cat cover will look similar? Or has the thinking changed post Sandy? The thinking actually changed a little bit a couple of years ago when we reintroduced -- I'm sorry when we introduced an aggregate -- cumulative aggregate element to our reinsurance program.
And we started that I think last year at the July coverage and actually expanded it some effective January 1.
We actually increased this cumulative aggregate program which has the effect of giving us a benefit against the retention in the cat program should the individual events exceed retentions and then cumulatively apply against the overall cat program.
With respect to the cat program itself I wouldn't anticipate any significant changes to that.
Our property coverage exposure really has not changed.
We were comfortable with where we were last year.
It may depend upon pricing move a little bit up or a little down but the important change the more important change is the introduction of this aggregate program to our overall cat merits.
Yes the one thing I would add is when we did Long Point Re II we had pegged it to RMS.
And when RMS 11 came out it raised the trigger points associated with that.
And in this [ph] past year we issued a $250 million cat bond with Long Point Re III.
And as Long Point Re II turns itself over we will probably bring those limits -- bring those trigger points down into something that looks more like Long Point Re III.
Got it.
That's very helpful.
The only other question I have is on Business Insurance pricing and maybe using Slide 9 as a backdrop and perhaps this question is for Jay.
The -- when you talk to your largest agent or business post Sandy is there a greater acceptance on pricing? Or do you think there was an uptick in December and just based on the economic conditions it's already beginning to sort of normalize as you look towards Q1? I think it's -- well I think the environment particularly for the January 1 renewals -- and this is anecdotal what I'm giving you because I don't -- we don't have the data yet but the anecdotal observations for January in renewals and the related rate was very similar in the aggregate to what December looked and felt like.
So I don't -- I wouldn't anticipate any immediate change of consequence in January.
I -- Sandy is a tough one to really talk about pricing.
I think that it continues to reinforce the notion that weather patterns may be changing and we've been saying that now for a couple of years and embracing that in our pricing strategy.
And I suspect -- again no evidence on this but I suspect that the storm will simply make that argument easier to make both at the agent level as well as the insured level.
I would tell you this notwithstanding how -- sort of the perceptions of Sandy it was in the playbook.
The storm itself the track the path it wasn't something that -- as we do our analysis and modeling that we didn't contemplate.
It was certainly there.
I think the surprise to the extent there was one in Sandy was to some extent the timing of it.
Meaning it was full moon it was 2 tides.
There were a lot of ancillary factors that made it more significant than it might otherwise have been.
But importantly the flooding was more severe.
And this is really -- it's predominantly a -- I'd say it's largely a Homeowners kind of question with respect to the NFIP program but it does have its impact on commercial insurance as well.
There were buildings that we insured in Lower Manhattan that we would not had contemplated would have been part of a flooding event.
The flood coverage that we extended was really episodic for them meaning we contemplated broken pipes or backup or things of that nature not a flood coming out of the East River or the Hudson River.
And importantly the dynamic there is the sea level.
And this is just from things I read but sea level is depending upon who you ask anywhere from 6 to 12 inches higher in Manhattan than it was about a century ago driven largely by the melting of the polar ice caps and what that's doing to the water level.
So I think what Sandy will do is cause people to think somewhat differently about concentrated flood risk than they had before.
It'll take some time it's a complicated issue.
But all of us I suspect we certainly are looking at flood concentrations in the commercial segment and analyzing it with a little different perspective than we did before.
Those were -- that was I think the big takeaway from Sandy that was different from what we might otherwise have contemplated.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> This is a follow-up to Brian Meredith's question before on sort of rate increases in Business Insurance and the ROE because the ROE right now seems to certainly be pretty healthy [ph] in fact close to about 11% x the OCI.
So just first curious on the Business Insurance front how do you see rate increases this year versus last year? Do you see them tapering off a little bit? Or are you pushing for the same magnitude of rate increases? Well it's -- as I've said before it's a very granular approach.
We have accounts that are at pricing levels that we're satisfied with that we feel good about and we have accounts where that's not the case.
And that may be driven by the loss experience.
It may be driven by the mix and long tail versus short tail and the impact of interest rates.
And it may be impacted also by geographic concentrations relative to catastrophe management.
We look at this very granularly.
In some businesses as we've told you before we break accounts down into quintiles.
In some business we actually break them so far as deciles.
And our pricing strategy is driven by the account and its sports class and its performance and where it fits.
So we'll let the -- we will continue to do what we do by looking at individual accounts.
We have no artificial limits.
We look at an account and we try and understand its profitability and how it contributes.
And if it's not contributing in what we think is a substantive way we have a discussion with the agent.
So that strategy is no different than it was a year ago.
And we'll continue to do it and the number will be what the number is.
And I do -- I would acknowledge to you that a very important question in all this and I don't have an answer for you but it's one that I think about a great deal is again using a 1.5% risk-free rate what level of overall returns are achievable and sustainable without jeopardizing the risk profile of the organization.
That is the question.
And we're not there yet but we're -- so we're going to continue to push.
Research Division</strong> So fair enough.
And you mentioned that the rate increase is I think 8.3% in December so tipped towards the higher end.
Could you give us some color on what the rate increases were in January of this year? Yes.
So when the -- so this is Brian.
In the middle-market businesses where we have a little bit better transparency into that the January ones the early January that we've seen the middle market look a lot like December so that's encouraging.
Small commercial it's harder to state and so we'll get a better look at that at the end of the quarter.
But the little peek that we've got is encouraging but that's -- it's a little window.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helpful.
And just one follow-up.
From the Commercial Auto there were some adverse physical [ph] development.
If you could please provide some color on sort of the subcomponents of that -- those small fleet versus big fleet along with trucking and whether that was more of a severity issue or a frequency issue.
So it's a -- just like we said in personal auto it's a bodily injury severity issue.
And it's really across the book of business.
So it -- we don't think -- the Commercial Auto book of business right.
We don't think of it as a really lasered underwriting as in a problem in one business but we're seeing it kind of systemically in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to -- in your prepared remarks you mentioned Schedule P and sort of gave us a sneak peek.
I just wanted to confirm the -- so the Workers' Comp line has inflected.
So I seem to recall that the 2010 policy year developed adversely when we look at the '11 data.
And it sounds like from your remarks that '11 policy year is going to have developed favorably when we look at the '12 Schedule P.
Is that true for -- and this is for Workers' Comp specifically? Yes well for Workers' Comp overall last year we did see as you talked about for the last -- yes I should get into the years because we're in 2013.
Well if you look -- if you go back a year and you're in the end of -- the beginning of 2012 looking backwards the 2010 accident year did develop unfavorably at that time for Workers' Comp.
If we now roll the clock forward there hasn't been any further developments associated with the 2010 accident year in 2012.
And then if we look at the 2011 accident year for Workers' Comp a year later in 2012 we've seen some slightly favorable development for that.
And overall in 2012 as I said our Workers' Comp has developed favorably.
So that's the Workers' Comp story.
And I think it speaks to what we were communicating a year ago.
Given the nature of our processes the granularity of the data that we have and the quarterly diligence we have we like to believe that when we -- we see trends early we react to those trends and we book them and move on.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And I mean that's a great inflection.
Do you -- this may not be fair but do you think the industry is going to see the same or as I guess your remarks just suggested are you way ahead of it? I hope that -- well we certainly can't speak for the industry.
I mean everybody has got their data their views their reserving practices.
And I think you just have to look at what companies will be doing.
But in terms of our data and our analysis and being able to stay on top of things we think the numbers speak for themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last on Comp is just I haven't heard a good explanation: Why did frequency spike up? I think it was a frequency issue at least at the industry level.
With the benefit in some ways of hindsight what is the reasoning behind this the higher loss trend that came through that was somewhat unexpected that obviously now you guys have gotten in front of? Yes so we've talked about it a good bit I don't know a year-plus ago.
But as you hit the economic downturn clearly losses mitigated -- frequency mitigated as it usually does.
People are concerned with maybe losing their jobs so they don't go out on a Comp claim.
As employers lay off workers they lay off the least experienced first et cetera et cetera.
And then you would typically see a rebound from that as there's a -- there's kind of a pent-up delay in loss reporting.
And so what we saw clearly in our results we can't speak to the rest of the industry was that that spiked up a little harder than we thought it was going to.
And so we had a backlog and so delayed reporting from the previous years and that kind of came through.
So our frequency picked up.
Again...
It was 2010.
It was in 2010 that we saw a spike in what we have come to call late-reported claims accidents occurring prior but reported in 2010.
Right right.
So these are people who maybe an incident in '09 and tried to work through it and by the time 2010 comes along -- and again we expected some of that.
It was just greater magnitude than what we had originally expected.
And we've seen it mitigate.
And this is Jay Benet again.
I just want to -- I'm being reminded by one of my colleagues the word "preliminary" is a very critical element of my discussion of schedule fee.
It is early.
We still are putting it together but directionally we feel that this is -- what I said before is where we're going to end up.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had just a couple of follow-ups.
The first is on investment income.
Can you talk about the seasonality of that? It seems to be stronger in 4Q than in 1Q and I'm just thinking if that trend will repeat in 2013 4Q '12 versus 1Q '13.
Well in the fourth quarter of '12 a lot of private equity funds were trying to sell companies because of an uncertain tax filing in 2013.
That may be a one-year occurrence...
Research Division</strong> I was referring just to the fixed income aspect.
I'm not sure there really is seasonality there.
I mean the -- there's $1 million difference where someone seized on.
There are 3 elements to that.
There's volume of the portfolio there's rate and then there's calendar days in the quarter.
And the net of those accounts for -- generally accounts for any small difference quarter-to-quarter.
But net investment income from fixed income comes in pretty much like the tide.
Research Division</strong> Well I was looking at fourth quarter '11 stronger than first quarter of '12.
And I'm just thinking well should we not use that $500 million of after-tax fixed income from 4Q '12 as the run rate for the beginning of '13? Well what's taking place in fixed income is there's a constant maturity of certain securities in the portfolio and they're being reinvested at today's rates.
And there's been several analyses we've put out into the marketplace which I'd refer you to that talk about some estimates of the maturities in the portfolio how much the yield is on that block that's maturing.
And then you can pick your number whether they're going to be reinvested at 200 basis points; 225; 175 less.
What you're generally seeing is a deterioration in the overall yield in the portfolio.
It's not dramatic but it's real.
And the numbers that you see in the webcast in the fixed income slide are reflective of that in terms of as you know quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
But there's no seasonality in the fixed income result at all.
We track book yields quarter to quarter and year to year.
And over the 12 months of 2012 book yield of the portfolio declined by 33 basis points.
And that's not unusual.
But the decline is inexorable until we reach the point at which reinvestment rates -- in which all the securities with high book yields have run off and they're replaced and that's 2 or 3 years off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my separate question is on Personal Auto.
To get you to your targeted returns what type of combined ratio do you feel you need to be able to generate? I would say about a 97 between 96 97 combined.
Our final question comes from the line of Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First was just -- is -- you've noted non-cat weather this quarter and that's been a theme all year.
I guess I was just trying to get a handle is there a number you could give us to kind of quantify how much of a tailwind that was this year? And I recognize that we're comparing 2012 to what was a slightly worse-than-normal year in 2011.
I don't know that we can give you a number.
I think we try to do it the other way around.
Brian's talked about what the impact of earned rate versus loss trend is.
And these other things whether it's non-cat weather or as I said earlier we had fire losses in one quarter higher than another quarter or there's large loss activity.
But we try to do it the other way and talk about what's underlying it in terms of rate versus "loss trend." Research Division</strong> Is there a way to give us a sense of whether or not it's -- I would assume -- tell me if this is right I would assume it's just more a personal lines benefit that it is a commercial lines benefit.
Is that perception correct? No it's meaningful in both depending upon the quarter.
It's not unusual.
And I -- we're not not answering because we don't answer.
We're not answering because you're asking a question that's exceptionally difficult for us to actually quantify.
It's how much of a -- you're sort of asking within our normal loss estimates how much are we relying on of weather and that's a tough question for us to answer.
I -- we do note though that it is not unusual in a high-cat year to have lower what we call non-cat weather.
And I -- and we suspect can't prove but we suspect what happens is that some of the claims that would ordinarily show up as non-cat weather get included into the catastrophe estimates and those customers who had some loss previously now get rolled into here.
I -- and it's an anecdotal observation but it does appear to have some actual fact in the numbers.
Research Division</strong> No that's fair.
I guess the fact that you know it's happening though makes it a little surprising to me that we can't get a ballpark number but -- because -- you know what I mean because that implies there's some recognition of the trend somewhere but...
But for example in BI as I said before about a 4-point improvement in the combined roughly 3 points of that is the core price in loss trend.
So it's about 1 point of other stuff a decent chunk of which would be what we're talking about so -- but it's not...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was -- yes can you give -- but do you have that handy for the full year? I mean...
It's not out.
We'll try and take some of this off-line because I know we've talked about particularly what affected 2011 for the full year and you can see some of that in the run rate.
So I'll get you off-line.
Research Division</strong> Yes no that's fair.
I just don't want to over- or underestimate the core.
I guess the other thing was should we think about the normalizing loss trend we're seeing in -- or what you characterize I think as a normalization of the trends in Work Comp as knocking on the -- to kind of the implied rate need in 2012? I know that's been an area where you've been getting some of the bigger headline gains so I just wonder -- as we're all really focused on what the headline rate number is but I'm just wondering if that's kind of a very -- a transparent example of where a headline rate might come in but when you think about what you're getting relative to loss trend might not affect that spread whatsoever.
Well when -- we're looking at each other.
First I'd make -- we -- in Workers' Comp most certainly the rate gains are exceeding loss trend in Workers' Comp resulting in improved profitability and improved returns.
So while the loss -- or the projected losses in Comp are substantive because we -- it's long tail and we're dealing with medical and wage inflation so there's a real number that we use.
We -- it's not a number that we disclose.
I think it is proprietary and a pricing strategy element.
But we do assume a real loss level in Workers' Comp that contemplates changes in those -- in both wage and medical.
But at this point the rate gains are exceeding it.
Now I would remind you that Workers' Comp as a return -- thinking about Workers' Comp in a return manner that it's real long tail and interest rates really matter there.
So it's one of those lines where the interest rate long-term interest rate impact is substantive relative to the returns.
So that may be as much of the driver as the loss trend dynamic in that line.
Yes.
And Matt just to be precise the only thing we talked about moderating was the frequency dynamic that we've seen in 2011.
We didn't comment on the other.
We continue to assume a real number both in severity both related to wage and indemnity.
It is just a frequency to Gabby's point that is -- that we've seen return back to the normal trend line.
This does conclude the Q&amp;A session for the call.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Nawi.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for joining us today.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions you can call myself or Andrew Hersom in the investor relations department.
Thank you very much and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the First Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Tuesday April 23 2013.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Andre.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our first quarter 2013 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also in the room available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before turning to our results this morning I want to take a moment and comment on the events of the last week.
No doubt someone will ask about the cost of the events in Boston or in West Texas.
While right now we don't expect either event will be meaningfully costly to us my real answer is that the human cost is stunning and we are reminded of the fragile nature of the world in which we live.
Our sympathies go out to everyone affected in these horrific events and we will do all we can to help them in the recoveries.
As we are reminded of September 11 we wish only the best for the folks in Texas and embrace fully the sentiment of Boston strong.
Now turning to our results.
We are very pleased to report a strong start to 2013 with operating income of $2.31 per diluted share which is the highest quarterly operating income per share since Travelers' initial public offering in 2002.
Both net and operating income increased 11% from last year's first quarter results to $896 million and $887 million respectively producing a return on equity of 14.1% and an operating return on equity of 15.8%.
Our margins improved significantly with a GAAP combined ratio of 88.5%.
Importantly underlying underwriting margins increased across all our business segments in large measure the result of the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken over the last few years.
Our 90.8% underlying GAAP combined ratio was an improvement of almost 4 points from the prior year as earned rate increases outpaced expected loss trends in each segment.
While we are certainly pleased with these results we will continue our strategy of taking the steps necessary to continue improving accident year profitability and returns.
Our focus is evident in the production statistics for each segment this quarter.
Renewal rates were at or above levels achieved in recent quarters and exceeded expected loss-cost trends in each segment.
In addition retention rates remain at very high levels.
We also saw modest new business growth in Business Insurance.
And while new business in Personal Insurance remains meaningfully down from historical levels it was consistent with fourth quarter 2012 levels.
Brian will take you through the details by segment.
Next I'd like to comment briefly about our total return to shareholders as measured by the net stock price change plus cumulative amount of dividends over the same time period assuming dividend reinvestment.
We've shown this information in the past and believe it is an important measure of our long-term success.
The universe you see on Slides 4 and 5 contain the 20 largest S&amp;P financial companies by market capitalization as well as companies in our P&amp;C insurance peer group.
As Slide 4 demonstrates our total return to shareholders for each of these periods is impressive.
Slide 5 shows the return on a Treynor risk-adjusted basis.
And amongst these companies we are first on a 1- and 5-year basis and sixth on a 3-year basis.
These results are very gratifying.
It's worth noting that over the last 5 years the compound annual growth rate in our book value per share has been 9.4%; in earnings per share it's been 8.6%; and in dividends per share it's been 9.7%.
If we include the dividend increase announced today it's 11.5%.
Before I turn it over to Jay I want to take a moment and extend the best wishes of 30 000 Travelers' employees to our friend and colleague Chuck Clarke.
Chuck is retiring after 55 years indeed a lifetime of service with Travelers.
It is not possible to overstate the impact that Chuck has had on so many of us at Travelers and we will all benefit from his powerful legacy for many years to come.
He is the best in our business and we all wish him the best in this next chapter in his life.
I will miss him more than I can express.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
As Jay said we're very pleased with our first quarter results as well as our liquidity and capital positions.
Operating cash flows of approximately $530 million.
It was strong despite higher-than-normal claim payment related to Storm Sandy.
We repaid $500 million of debt that matured in March and maintained our strong cash position ending the quarter with holding company liquidity of just over $1.5 billion.
We continue to generate more capital than what is needed to support our businesses so we returned $476 million of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $176 million and common share repurchases of $300 million consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy.
And we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.46 per share to $0.50 per share an increase of almost 9%.
We also recorded on a consolidated basis pretax net favorable prior year reserve development of $231 million for the quarter which was lower than the $304 million we recorded in the prior year quarter.
And each of our segments once again saw its reserves develop favorably.
I should point out that this quarter's reserve development included an unusual item a $42 million pretax charge precipitated by legislation in New York related to the New York fund for reopened cases for Workers' Compensation.
Business Insurance accounted for a little less than half of this quarter's total reserve development.
Favorable development in BI was driven by better-than-expected loss experienced in general liability for accident years 2003 and prior as well as accident years 2004 through 2010 resulting from a more favorable legal and judicial environment than we had expected; and by property loss development for accident years 2010 through 2012.
I should also note that BI reserve development was reduced by the $42 million pretax charge precipitated by the New York legislation concerning Workers' Comp that I mentioned previously.
And excluding the impact of this legislation our Workers' Comp reserves were essentially unchanged for all accident years.
The rest of this quarter's favorable reserve development primarily resulted from better-than-expected loss development in Bond &amp; Financial Products contract surety business for accident years 2006 '07 '08 and '10 better-than-expected loss development of several international businesses within FPII and better-than-expected cat and non-cat loss development in Personal Insurance Homeowners business for accident year 2011.
On a combined statutory basis for all of our U.S.
subs accident years 2003 and prior as well as accident years 2004 through 2011 all developed favorably in the quarter while accident year 2012 developed very slightly unfavorably.
And finally to update you on Storm Sandy our current estimate of total ultimate losses is now $1.011 billion net of reinsurance and pretax down $13 million from our fourth quarter 2012 estimate.
Finally all of our capital ratios remained at or better than our target levels at the end of the quarter.
Net unrealized investment gains were approximately $4.4 billion pretax or $2.9 billion after-tax a slight decrease from the beginning of the year due to the rise in interest rates that took place during the quarter.
And book value per share was $68 or $0.07 -- 7% higher than at the end of the prior year quarter and 1% higher than at the beginning of the year.
So with that let's have Brian talk about the operations.
Thanks Jay.
I'll go through the segment results in some details but the overall headline from an underwriting perspective is the margin expansion that we saw in all our business segments.
Beginning with Business Insurance.
We continue to be extremely pleased with the fundamentals of the business.
The combined ratio for the quarter of 89.4% improved slightly versus the prior year.
While the underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats and prior year development improved by more than 4 points.
As always there's some non-run rate items in the quarter but 3 points of the improvement was driven by earned rate increases that exceeded loss-cost trends.
Net written premiums increased 5% with the largest increase in Workers' Compensation driven by higher rate and exposure in our guaranteed cost and National Account businesses.
Turning to the production statistics starting on Page 11.
Overall retention was in line with recent periods at 80%.
Pricing remains strong with renewal premium change over 10% and new business volume was up slightly from recent quarters.
Drilling into the pricing results.
The renewal premium change was driven by pure rate increases of 8% and exposure of over 2%.
The rate gains we achieved this quarter were up slightly from both the previous quarter and the first quarter of 2012.
Rate increases ranged from 6% to 10% across all lines and were once again led by Workers' Compensation and Commercial Auto.
As we've explained before when comparing the quarter's data with prior periods keep in mind that the data develops over time and can bounce around a bit and this is especially true of exposure.
On Slide 15 we show our commercial accounts rate change and retention data for the first quarter of 2013 as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
This slide presents a summarized view of how we analyze the pricing and retention on our renewal book to ensure we are taking the right actions.
The data is segmented by the individual account's long-term loss ratio with the bars on the left representing our best-performing business accounts with long-term loss ratio of less than 60%; and the bars on the right representing our worst performing businesses that is accounts with long-term loss ratios exceeding 90%.
The results show that retention is stronger for the better business and the rate change is dramatically higher on the poor performing accounts.
I would emphasize that this is summarized data so don't overanalyze the precision on the page.
But what this data continues to tell us is that our underwriters are making the right targeted rate decisions class by class account by account.
So with the continued improvement in pricing and loss trends holding across Business Insurance at about 4% we continue to see meaningful margin expansion.
In our Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance segment the combined ratio for the quarter was 82.3% an improvement of 5.5 points year-over-year.
The underlying combined ratio improved nearly 4 points driven by underwriting actions across the segment along with increased rate in our Management Liability business.
This marks the ninth consecutive quarter of improving underlying loss ratios for the segment.
Net written premiums increased by 7% in the quarter driven primarily by lower reinsurance cost across the segment.
Gross written premium showed a modest increase of about 1% in the first quarter driven by strong rate gains in our Management Liability book of business partially offset by a slight decline in surety premium.
All in a great quarter for the segment.
In Personal Insurance operating income was up significantly versus the first quarter of 2012 due to higher underlying underwriting margins lower levels of catastrophe losses and higher net favorable prior year reserve development.
The combined ratio for the quarter of 89.4% improved more than 8 points versus the first quarter of 2012 while the underlying combined ratio showed more than a 3-point improvement year-over-year.
Looking specifically at Auto we continue to be very pleased with both pricing and retention with renewal premium change of nearly 9% and retention at 81% both in line with recent periods while new business volume was down year-over-year.
What these results demonstrate is that we've been successful in achieving rate increases on the renewal book but our pricing actions have meaningfully impacted our new business and we are watching this trend carefully.
Turning to Auto profitability.
The underlying combined ratio of 94.4% was an improvement of over 1 point versus the prior year quarter reflecting the earned impact of the written rate gains we have achieved over the past several quarters.
It's important to remember that there's a significant amount of seasonality and losses for this line and the first quarter loss ratio typically runs a little below the full year average.
I would also note that the unfavorable prior year development in this line is due to a slight increase in our estimate of Sandy Auto claims.
Regarding loss-cost trends we've been talking to you about increasing bodily injury severity for more than a year and we were encouraged that the bodily injury severity trend we saw this quarter remained consistent with what we have seen in the previous 2 quarters.
In addition earned pricing remains in excess of our current view of loss trend.
And assuming loss trend remains at this level we will see year-over-year Auto margins expand for the remainder of 2013.
Looking at Homeowners.
Pricing was also very strong with renewal premium change coming in at 12% down slightly from the fourth quarter of 2012 but up more than 2 points year-over-year.
Retention remains strong at 84% while new business volume was meaningfully lower than the prior year quarter due to the execution of our pricing underwriting and deductible strategies.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter of 81.1% improved more than 4 points over the prior year quarter benefiting from a lower level of non-cat weather and fire losses along with earned rate increases that exceeded loss-cost trend.
So a very strong underwriting result.
But given the ongoing volatility of weather patterns we will continue to implement improved underwriting pricing in terms and conditions.
Overall in the segment there was progress on the underlying fundamentals along with some benefit from the lower weather-related losses but still a work in process and we'll continue to execute on our strategy in order to further improve our results.
With that let me turn it back over to Gabby.
Thank you.
Andre we're ready for the question-and-answer segment.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I have one question Brian.
In -- you talked about Personal lines you talked about the rate gains you're getting both on the Homeowners and the Auto side.
But I think in the Q the outlook you mentioned that you expected profitability to be roughly in line with what you saw in 2012.
Just trying to square those 2 items and just one follow-up.
So -- and specifically I just want to make sure that's a Homeowners...
Research Division</strong> I think you said in the Q I think it's said the outlook for Personal lines overall was that profitability would be -- should be in line with 2012 or you would expect it to be in line with 2012.
And just given that you're taking mid- to high-single digit I think you said double-digit rate gains I'm just trying to understand how -- why that number shouldn't be better next year than this year.
Yes.
This is Jay Benet.
What we tried to say in the Q was that what we had last year were various quarters that had favorable weather favorable fire losses.
And as you can easily understand in the Homeowners it's very difficult to predict what a normal level of these things are.
So thinking about what the outlook for the year was in Homeowners our view was well they were favorable last year so whatever normal is this year sounds like it should be a little higher.
So despite having this underlying concept of rate exceeding some view of loss trend and that's a pretty difficult concept when you get into a business that has so much of its losses tied up in weather and fire-type events we do feel that there's an improvement in profitability coming about through pricing versus this concept of loss trend but that improvement will be offset if these other levels of losses go back to whatever a"normal" is.
So it's a very difficult equation if you will to try to come up with an outlook for that business but that was our best shot as it relates to Homeowners.
And then on the Auto side the view was a little marginal improvement based upon pricing where it is today versus in that business a much better view as to what loss trend looks like.
So...
A better meaning more accurate more predictable.
Yes.
Yes yes.
So looking at the 2 combined one getting better one if things go back to normal in Homeowners who knows whether they will getting a little less margin the 2 of them should kind of offset and the profitability should be roughly at the same level.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay great.
And then just in Business Insurance we certainly saw exposures kind of pick up in some of the reporting that you provided us with.
Just trying to understand so you've got -- so you've -- you're taking rate you're expecting to continue to do that your retention is not falling and you're seeing exposures lift.
Is that exposures on the business that you had? Or is that potentially being impacted by new business or new endorsements on old business? Michael this is Brian.
So the exposure numbers we show are all on our renewal book for starters driven by a whole bunch of things.
In Property for example there's been a lot of movement to improve insurance to value.
So that would -- we could have the exact same building but getting a different insurance to value on it and that would be driving exposure up.
It can be more employees in Workers' Comp.
It could be more vehicles more receipts on a GL rating so it can be a whole -- all of those different things.
As I mentioned in my comments too I would also point out that the granular nature of the exposure data in particular on Commercial Accounts moves around a bit as premium audits come in et cetera.
So there is a lift there but maybe not as dramatically as some of that data shows.
It moves around.
Research Division</strong> And the premium auto it's been trending in which direction recently? For the last several quarters they've been pretty flat.
They rose dramatically as we came out of the 2008-2009 time period.
But for the -- yes and clearly it's positive.
Premium audits have returned to the traditional couple points of positive on average.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So this is obviously a great quarter.
And as we sort of -- as we work through results we're starting to get -- see some players get more comfortable with margins.
And obviously Travelers has been the leaders thus far in raising pricing and talking about sort of accident years being not a target.
I'm curious to get a sense of how far you think we may have to go on pricing.
You're guiding to continued pricing in '13 in your outlook in the K -- in the Q and would love to get a sense of how much further accident year sort of margin expansion you think that the industry needs to get back to target.
Josh it's Jay Fishman.
I can't speak to the industry or any other company.
I can tell you what we're doing.
We're going to continue and it's driven by 2 factors: First the weather remains unpredictable and just more uncertain than it has in many years and that's been the case for the last several years and that's been driving much of our action.
But the other part is that as our investment portfolio continues to mature the effect of reduced interest rates will continue to push the fixed portion of net investment income down over the next several years.
We've provided those projections to you previously with -- or actually they're more than projections they're almost the actual numbers such as that bonds as they mature will be reinvested.
So we will -- I would refer you back to that schedule to get some sense of that impact.
So that net investment income will continue to decline for the next several years at least unless interest rates change.
The weather remains very unpredictable and uncertain so we're going to keep going.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Jay.
The other thing that's surprising about this just as a follow-up a couple of years back it was clear that it was easier to maintain margins and maintain sort of pricing in the soft market in the sort of smaller areas and in personal lines.
But it sounds like if I'm interpreting what you guys are saying correctly that I think that there is more pricing momentum to continue in sort of the larger mid-market Commercial Accounts National Accounts businesses as opposed to the smaller businesses in Personal lines.
And I'm wondering if you can talk about one I guess if that's right but then also just sort of underlying what that -- sort of how those 2 different markets have diverged and what we all ought to understand about how they operate differently.
No worries.
We tend to think of those markets really in 3 segments and even that's an understatement of what's -- of what the real environment is but we tend to think of small middle market individually underwritten accounts and then the National Accounts business.
And certainly over a long period of time the competitive dynamics in the National Accounts arena in particularly has been more dramatic than the level of competition in the smallest accounts.
In fact if I recall correctly I don't think that renewal price change in our Select business actually ever went negative.
We should check that but that's my recollection.
I don't believe it ever did and obviously it did in middle markets.
And for those who engage in the real National Accounts business and I would observe that our participation in that segment is actually relatively modest that's been the most competitive.
So that's a historical framework I think around which to think of pricing.
For what's happened over the last several years we have been successful at passing along price increases both in our small commercial business as well as our middle market individually underwritten businesses.
And I'm not sure that the differences in the ability to pass or at least as measured by rate gains or renewal price change in the small business I don't think that there's been a significant difference in the ability to be successful in those 2 segments.
The dynamics are quite different on the individually underwritten business it's account by account.
It is in many cases loss driven.
It's the experience of the individual account.
In Select you're dealing with class underwriting.
And so you're dealing with -- think of it as one with personal lines a price established for a class of business.
So the nature of the underwriting decisions are different but the results are interesting in that we've been successful at getting rate gains in that small end as well as the individually underwritten business that are largely in the aggregate the same.
Do you want to talk about National Accounts at all? Or -- I'm looking at Brian.
I mean National Accounts is a little bit more of a service model.
A lot of what we do there the majority of what we do on the casualty side is all loss responsive.
And the market conditions have been such that our service capabilities have been viewed very favorably and so the pricings improved there pretty dramatically.
But -- and we've done really well there.
So we feel good about -- we're not a large casualty risk taker in that space.
And that is an important distinction.
We -- our -- even our National Accounts business we'll write national property on a guaranteed cost basis we'll do that.
Our casualty business both in terms of liability as well as in particular Workers' Compensation is largely in one fashion or another a fee-for-service business where we are managing a claim on behalf of the clients.
So we are not -- as one would think of a guaranteed cost risk taker in the larger end...
The risk we would take there would be excess [ph].
Yes yes exactly right.
I hope that's helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Sebaski with BMO Capital Markets.
Just had a question about the Personal lines business and the change in PIF this quarter.
While the retention seems to be holding constant on both the Agency Auto and Agency Homeowners there's been a pretty significant decline in PIF year-over-year.
Wondered if I could just get some more insight on it just a rate change or a competitive dynamic shift? Yes so this is Brian.
I'll start.
We're clearly watching that closely.
So obviously in our statistics you can see the renewal book is performing well.
We feel great about that.
The actions that we are taking and we believe it's very directly tied to the actions we're taking from a pricing deductible underwriting perspective specifically on the last point there on Homeowners is impacting our new business volumes and our competitive position in the marketplace.
And like I said we're watching it closely and we're going to continue to manage it.
But we're committed to improving the profitability there.
Jay? No I think you've expressed it right.
In the Homeowners business our sense is and this is a more anecdotal than we can -- than factual.
Our sense is is that the increase in minimum deductibles in particular in not an insignificant number of states to really try and bring the policy back to its historical intent is having an impact on new business competitively.
It had been our hope I think more than anything else that the weather changes that are -- that we're confronting those are systemic.
They're not unique to us.
They are systemic in that any thoughtful underwriting-driven company would in the long run evaluate how you make a reasonable return in that business.
So we've taken steps that we think makes sense for us.
We're not going to allow our business to continue from a policy in force standpoint to decline in double digits for long without beginning to take other steps that we might have to take.
Now one of those steps is not to reengage in the business and make substandard returns.
So we'll have to wrestle with the strategy and how we implement that in the marketplace if what we're doing now strategically and tactically doesn't turn out to be competitively viable and that's why Brian's comment that we will continue to watch this carefully.
And then I guess just sort of a follow-up to that.
Any thoughts on how the direct-to-consumer channel is sort of coming along? Or any growth plans to sort of push that line either advertising or otherwise accelerate the development of the business? Not yet.
We continue to -- the test that we're actually continuing to do internally we refer to as Little America.
Our Little America test is -- don't know whether it's 2 or 3 states but we're actually doing pricing testing in those 2 states taking states where our agency business was not nearly as prominent as other states so we can determine the price elasticity of the product and what actions we take and what drives volumes.
We're -- we also believe in learning about this that the notion of what I'll call traditional advertising media-based advertising that may have run its course.
Meaning we're just not convinced that taking a substantial amount of resources and applying it in traditional media channels actually is going to result in a growth strategy for a business.
So we have been deeply exploring digital and the way to drive digital business around it which we think at least at this point has more viability to it and a greater impact.
So that's at least a learning in the process that it's possible that American eyeballs are just exhausted from auto insurance ads and to become another name in that quest may not make a great deal of sense.
And lastly we watch with interest who responds and we're always wrestling -- not wrestling that's actually an incorrect word.
We are evaluating is perhaps better the dynamic of who responds in that channel the nature of the customer and always wanting to make sure that when we are ready to launch this more substantively that we really understand the customer that's responding and we like that customer.
And so those are still learning points for us.
And until we really feel comfortable that we know what we're doing and we have a likely successful outcome we're going to keep testing and making sure we wire the thing up properly.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
I guess 2 quick follow-up questions.
First of all if I look at Slide 14 for other Business Insurance it seems that that exposure rebounded meaningfully over the past few quarters.
Can you just sort of delve a bit deeper into the cause for that? Yes so this is Brian.
A decent amount of that business is property.
So it's got our national property business there it's got our marine businesses there.
As I said insurance to values improved pretty significantly there so we've had some movement.
And some of the other activity in oil and gas has moved there so it's a couple of specific things.
I wouldn't read robust economic growth into it.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess the only other question is going back to the charge regarding to the New York fund for reopened cases.
Can you sort of just expand on that? And is that the fund which will close at 1/1/2014? I guess what I'm trying to figure out is is there a possibility as more new claims come in could there be further adjustments down the line? Sure you're welcome.
It's Jay Fishman.
And yes this is the fund that will close 1/1/14 as a result of legislation undertaken in New York.
And your question actually is quite relevant.
The $42 million pretax that we've provided is an actuarial estimate of the amount of reopened claims that we otherwise would have been -- that would have been seatable to the fund.
And as a consequence we did not build into original loss estimates loss picks if you like in our Workers' Compensation business.
And now that's the best estimate we have given all the data that we have of the amount that will no longer go back to the fund so we have to provide for the reserve levels.
And if in fact the reserve -- the claim activity is different from that actuarial estimate yes we will have a variance to that $42 million.
Perspectively it can go up or down obviously.
And -- but the answer to your question is yes that's correct.
There isn't anything structural that will require us to take further action.
If our estimate is right we think we've appropriately assessed the liability.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Zaremski from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could flesh out the audit premiums impact during the quarter.
I believe there was a component of healthy growth in at least 1 line.
And I was curious if it benefits the combined ratio in a way that we should be cognizant of as well.
This is Brian.
I'm thinking through the question for a second but I don't think it has any impact on the combined.
As we say on the pages of -- well I'm looking at the Page numbers 11 12 13 those are illustrative production statistics that we use in managing the business.
And particularly in Commercial Accounts how the true-ups of audit premiums flow through that data develops over time.
But from a loss projection -- from a loss ratio perspective I don't think it has any impact.
I mean without getting into the details of accounting we have this thing called earned but unbilled amounts on the balance sheet that's trying to take into account everything we know about the particular policyholders that we have.
So there's nothing really about the audit premiums per se that are going to drive a major change to the combined ratio at any given quarter.
It's just all part of the entirety of the estimation process.
And then as far as the overall level of audit premiums this year in the first quarter versus last year there really wasn't a significant change in the dollar amount.
So as it relates to premium differentials from one quarter to the next it's not driving that either.
We actually make an estimate and accrue on a regular basis the amount of estimated order premiums that we project.
And then obviously as each policy ends and each policy audit occurs we will make an adjustment to that accrual either up or down depending on it.
In the financial crisis what happened the reason that it became a more substantive issue was that we had never actually seen audit premiums go negative.
We were not accruing on the premise that they would be negative so we had significant adjustments then relative to that.
But now it's more consistent with historical patterns and is -- so in answer no.
I need to correct one thing I said earlier.
I'm reminded by Bill Cunningham who is here.
I said that I couldn't -- I didn't recall that select RPC had ever been negative.
And in fact it was.
In the RPC in the fourth quarter of '08 it was the -- the others were third quarter of '08 first quarter of '09 it was flat.
But fourth quarter of '08 it was modestly negative.
So apologies for sort of my memory not being perfect on that.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And lastly so I see -- the Travelers stock valuation has increased fairly meaningfully.
I noticed that share repurchases plus the dividend lag net income by a fair amount this quarter.
Is that due to the debt repayment? Or should we -- or is there a change in philosophy perspectively? No there's no change in philosophy.
As we've said before there's a lot of timing differentials that take place as to when you earn the money what moneys are up at the holding company versus in the operating company but there's absolutely no change in philosophy.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys are actually sitting at your targeted ROEs at least for 1 quarter.
So I'm wondering does that -- how does that shift your thinking in terms of managing the business? You're -- even in a low interest rate world you're getting where you want to be.
So how did things change? Yes.
Greg we reflect again sort of the same comment I made earlier.
The fact is is that on an accident-year basis excluding the favorable reserve development we are not at that level are going to compounded by the fact that investment income in the fixed portfolio will continue to decline.
That's a certainty unless rates change.
And then the third piece is is that weather remains very unpredictable and the fact that we had favorable non-cat weather in one quarter is certainly not enough for us to conclude that anything is different.
So our analysis is largely the same and so we're going to continue to keep pushing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in a way you're basically normalizing all that stuff when you talk about that mid-teens over time? We -- I'm glad you said it.
The slide is clear it says mid-teens ROE over time.
And I said several quarters ago that that was not achievable in this environment.
And on an accident year basis I still don't believe that it really is.
And as a consequence we were going to leave it in place as an aspirational goal I think are the exact words that we use.
And that's where we sit today.
And as a consequence we'll continue to push.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then perhaps the only negative thing in a very strong quarter was just -- or just some clarification around the Workers' Comp reserve side.
I understand the onetime charge but there were no releases anywhere across the book in Workers' Comp.
I'm wondering is that the first time that you haven't released from Workers' Comp reserves? And should we be concerned that the last couple years have developed unfavorably there? This is Jay Benet.
What I did say was that there was no change really in Workers' Comp.
I mean this is the first quarter of the year and Workers' Comp has a long tail line as you know.
So we're not -- while we look at everything on a quarterly basis we don't necessarily have adjustment to all of our reserves on a quarterly basis.
So I wouldn't read into that other than we put up reserves in the fourth quarter and we still feel very good about where those reserves are and we'll see how they develop going forward.
I'd make an observation even though it's not the question that you're necessarily asking.
We're sure that somebody was going to ask us about frequency in Workers' Compensation and the loss trend and kind of where things are in that regard just reflecting back on our comment a couple of -- I think it was actually 2 years ago 1.5 years 2 years ago which is that the frequency dynamic has indeed returned back to its long-term trend line which is really good.
It was the blip that we saw.
I think it was in '10.
We attributed it to late filed claims as a result of the financial crisis.
But that frequency line has now returned back to its long-term trend line.
There's absolutely no guarantee that it will stay there.
It may change next quarter but we were just prepared for that question.
We thought someone would ask.
So we feel actually quite good about the Workers' Compensation business.
We obviously do have a view on what the accident year returns are in the Workers' Comp line across all the businesses and we are very much on track there.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
Brian I know you said not to microscope Slide 15 of the deck on the pricing changes by band.
But I'm just curious for the middle band retention is down a decent bit versus a year ago where the -- with the outside bands it's improved a little bit.
I'm not sure it matters but I'm just curious do you have any theory what's going on there? Yes I think so.
So part of it -- the honest answer to that is probably the middle bar there in blue was a little too high a year ago.
And as we looked at marketplace opportunity and the profitability on that business that's 60% to 90% loss ratio business.
There's a wide band within that.
So as I -- as we try to emphasize this is a real simplification of how we look at it.
And in every one of our businesses it's at least quintiles.
In many it's deciles.
And we're looking at all the stuff in between.
So I wouldn't read too much into that dip.
A piece of it was I think as we looked at the data a year ago we began to execute more granularly there and push on the right account.
So we actually feel good about the progress there.
Bill Cunningham actually a year ago said that there was real opportunity or so he thought particularly in that -- in the right side of this graph the over-90 segment.
And if you take a look at what's happened since it's just -- I mean the results are just -- you couldn't have scripted them much better.
Retention remains at relatively let's call them low levels but rate is even higher.
So again just an analytical validation of the strategic and operational approach that he described a year ago.
Right very helpful.
And then just a quick follow-up on the direct business.
I mean your statutory underwriting loss there actually declined pretty significantly this quarter.
Clearly part of it was driven by less expense spend.
And I'm just wondering relative to your comments earlier might we be looking for kind of a new base line underwriting result there thinking about it holistically? The result very specifically is a function of reduced national media spending advertising.
As we pursue this Little America strategy and Greg shared with me it is 2 states that our media and digital spending has been very targeted because we're trying to generate activity and results in those states so we can learn about price elasticity.
And as a consequence the aggregate amount of spending is down.
I wouldn't overreact on a permanent strategic analysis as to what we've been doing these last few quarters.
This is a very targeted moment for us to determine pricing sensitivity.
And as a result less advertising spending is needed to generate the results.
So there's no top-down decision at this point that we want to cut our losses not eliminate them but we want to bring down our underwriting loss from this initiative? No no no.
Quite the contrary.
We remain -- the best way to answer is we remain committed to the strategy.
And as I've said before we want to make sure that we know that we have a financial success.
It is far easier -- I'm not saying easy but it's easier to have a marketing success and a financial disappointment and we are guarding carefully against that.
And as a result we want to make sure that not only do we have a pricing profile that is competitive for our brand but that the pricing strategy there can produce a reasonable return.
So that -- it just takes time for sales to occur losses to emerge and to evaluate the performance of the business.
And I mean we are in no rush.
There's -- we're just not.
There'll always be another 25-year-old generation that's coming of age that needs insurance and I -- it's -- granted there's certainly activity today.
But we feel strongly having years and years ago now had a marketing success and a financial disappointment that we're just not going to go down that path.
And we just -- just urgency is not -- to go quickly is not the measure here it's to go successfully.
Our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Question on reserves and the commentary that the legal environment is better than expected in the '10 to '12 accident years.
I just was wondering that's still -- we're seeing that across a bunch of companies but it's still surprising to me that the legal environment was so good in that time given the economy.
So I'd appreciate any color on kind of your thoughts on why that's been the case.
Why you've had less exposure legal-wise on casualty lines in that period of time? This is Doreen Spadorcia.
I'll try and answer your question.
I'll tell you we had exactly the same assumption.
When the economy started to turn we were worried about not only that but political environment.
So we watched down to the county what's happening around jury award settlements et cetera et cetera.
And the best I can give you is we think that the financial crisis probably encouraged people to want their dollars faster.
And so there were opportunities for settling some cases that maybe in the past they would have waited to see what the amount would have been.
We also took very targeted approaches in certain jurisdictions that we thought we had the ability to set some good precedence.
But we've just found that the willingness for people settling has been they want to do that sooner rather than later.
Whether that will continue I don't know.
We've also seen cases that have gone to verdict.
We saw again that there might be some views that this is a bad economy people need the money where people on the jury have said "This is a lot of money given this economy." So even the things that have gone to verdict on some of the kind of GL and other things they've been more reasonable than we anticipated going into this kind of economic environment.
But again that's just our view.
Research Division</strong> But it's not for a lack of effort by the -- on the part of the trial bar though right? I mean they're very well kind of financed right now and very aggressive.
So it's more people wanting their liquidity.
Is that -- I guess that's the takeaway? I can tell you there's a lot of advertising still for the plaintiffs bar looking for different kinds of cases.
There's unique financing tools that people are using around big kinds of lawsuits.
So you're right in that regard.
I just can tell you what we're seeing.
So I don't know if that's across the board.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just one more on reserves.
And that is on -- it was '10 to '12 that developed most favorably from the commentary but not kind of '08 and '09 and prior.
So time marches on and those years are getting seasoned.
Is it -- are we getting to the point now where kind of the '08 in prior accident years kind of stopped giving as much from a redundancy perspective? This is Jay Benet.
I just -- we -- I'll answer the question by saying every time we provide information on reserves it's our best estimate and we don't have a crystal ball as to how these things are going to develop.
I think that if you think of the arithmetic associated with reserving as years mature more and more claims are paid more and more claims are settled.
So it's logical to believe that as the accident years mature there's going to be less development but you just have to wait and see how these things actually take place.
I mean we certainly carry IBNR for all the years you mentioned.
And sometimes you have large cases that you think are going to cost you x and they cost you less or more whatever.
So we just have to see.
But I think essentially the less IBNR you have the less uncertainty you have all things being equal the less development you'll have.
Some of -- this is Jay Fishman.
Some observers in the -- of the industry spend a lot of time commenting about reserve development from hard years hard cycles or soft years or soft cycles and people who embrace that thinking can come to view that particular years will be more productive than others.
We just -- we don't agree with -- at least for us I'll speak about Travelers.
We just don't believe that we don't do it.
We make our best estimates all the time.
They are estimates for loss -- for loss estimates are not driven by the revenue strength of that business.
They're just not.
And so we don't look at any years necessarily as being more potentially productive than others.
And as an old year rolls off a new year comes on and it just keeps going.
So it's -- we just don't spend a lot of time obsessing about individual accident years and what they're producing.
Randy it's Alan Schnitzer.
I would also add to Doreen's response that over that period of time that you mentioned we also had other developments like the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that was really pro-defendant and made some cases harder to bring.
Other developments like the Class Action Fairness Act there's been some important cases in the Supreme Court that I think have been some setbacks in some cases for the trial bar.
So I think all those things contribute.
We for example just had an important win at the Supreme Court on an interpretation of the Class Action Fairness Act in Standard Fire versus Knowles.
And so the cases go both ways of course.
But I think if you look back over the last 5 or 6 years you'd -- probably on balance and maybe just at the margin but on balance a slightly improving environment from the defense side.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question had been answered.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Back to one of your earlier comments about Auto loss-cost trends maybe stabilizing a bit.
I'm just curious if you think that this is going to drive -- just that the new found rate competition in the Personal Auto industry.
I mean to your earlier comments maybe not with Travelers.
But is that something you might be able to expect the industry to ramp up on? Well it's Jay Fishman then I'm going to turn it over to Brian.
But my comment about loss stabilization was -- at least mine was specific to Workers' Compensation and it was a frequency comment where we had seen a tick up in frequency and it generated a lot of questions over the last several quarters.
So I was just commenting that that frequency trend was now back in line.
And maybe you're referring Vince back to my comment where I was talking about Auto severity.
And so just to be crystal clear we had been seeing for -- and this goes back a little over a year ago now we started talking about a ramp-up in Auto severity.
The good news is that that has leveled off third quarter fourth quarter this quarter at about the same level but it is still higher than historical norms so it's not the -- the rate of increase isn't increasing anymore but we still got severity trend.
That's actually an important point.
When we say leveled off we don't mean that severity has gone to 0.
Sure.
What we mean is that the rate of increase is more consistent with our own expectations and to some extent historical trends but it is still increasing.
Yes.
So we would -- we obviously don't know what our competitors are planning to do.
We do know that the line the Personal Auto line of business has gone from a 94 to 102 combined in the last 6 years in an -- for the industry in an environment with declining infrastructures.
So from a return perspective it's not the healthiest line of business for the industry.
And we do look at the publicly available rate filings of our competitors and that may indicate some movement upward in pricing but we'll see what actually happens in the marketplace.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then winter storm Nemo was -- I mean at least from a Northeastern standpoint it was a fairly large storm event but we haven't heard anything about Nemo from really anybody yet this quarter.
So is it safe to assume that from an industry standpoint or for Travelers standpoint that that was basically a nonevent? [indiscernible] Is the cat 96 [ph]? I think yes.
96 [ph] yes.
Cats 96 [ph] I believe.
Yes let me just -- I'm going to look that up really quickly.
You know what in the meantime why don't we go to the next caller and then we'll come back on that.
Our final question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Brian Jay I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about your distribution.
And kind of what their mood is right now.
We're going to the third year of price increases are they just getting tired of it? Are they accepting of it? What's kind of the new reaction? Well I think the numbers largely tell the story of where [ph] it will go.
The senior team here spends a lot of time with agents and with brokers.
If you had to do a short summary you'd say on the commercial line side the agents feel terrific.
They're just -- they're feeling really good and really supported and solid.
They believe that they can talk to their customers explain the rationale.
The best remind their customers how long pricing went down and actually do a pretty good job comparing where even in a lifted environment how that compares to historical premiums.
And so they're feeling pretty good.
I don't know if you agree with that Brian but that...
Yes I do.
And we've spent -- in recent weeks we've been out with agents a lot and talked to a lot of them.
I think again not to overemphasize the data on Slide 15 but how we execute in the marketplace and really doing it on a granular basis works with them.
The more we're having specific conversations about accounts or classes of business the more focused that is the better it will be received.
The more it's viewed as just a broad-brush approach to the marketplace the more challenging it will be.
And on the personal line side what we're hearing from them is what you see in the numbers which is that our minimum -- our change in minimum deductibles our change in underwriting or to some extent our changes in rate are making us -- causing us to be less competitive on new business.
They share with us that the renewal book is fine.
And I would say -- I don't know that that really reflects the mood but this is a conversation that we have with producers and agents all the time that they're certainly confirming to us that for the moment the strategies that we're taking in home and in Auto on the new business side I would say only on the new business side only at least for the moment is causing us to be less competitive than historically we've been.
And we certainly listen to that.
We see it in the numbers and no great surprise to us at the moment.
Just -- and so just to circle back on the previous question just a couple quick comments on the big winter storm that we had a couple months ago.
We've clearly gotten some claim volume out of that.
It hasn't been outsized.
It was obviously contemplated in what we booked in the quarter.
A couple of comments: From an Auto perspective at least up here in Connecticut Massachusetts and the Northeast they really shut down the roads a lot so there wasn't a lot of activity.
And the type of claims that we get the really damaging winter storm claims we get tend to be when there is either really extended events when the snow sits for months on top of roofs and you get damage there or you get collapses.
And fortunately in this event although we got lots and lots of snow in a short period of time it warmed up.
It got cleared.
And so it just wasn't a tremendous event for at least us and it doesn't appear to have been in the industry either.
So...
All right.
We will -- it looks that this concludes our call for -- I don't think we have any more questions in the queue.
So if anybody has further questions as always Andrew Hersom and I are available in Investor Relations.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Tuesday July 23 2013.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Andre.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our second quarter 2013 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We're very pleased with our results this quarter posting record net income per share of $2.41.
We are particularly gratified that this is another quarter which demonstrates the very successful execution of the pricing strategy in commercial lines which we embarked on nearly 3 years ago.
Our granular active approach to improving profitability has been very successful.
The aggregate rate and retention data that we showed -- that we show you for our commercial businesses demonstrate the success but the data underneath tells an even more powerful story of improvement in profitability.
This is important and Brian will take you through that in more detail.
But let me share with you that underlying margin improvement in our commercial businesses since 2011 which we achieved primarily through earned rate our renewal business exceeding loss trend has as of now generated an increase in after-tax operating income of $650 million on an annualized basis.
If we include Personal Insurance and more to say on personal lines in a minute the increase is more than $1 billion.
Importantly we have done so without disruption to our agents or customers.
The relevant question now is where do we go from here? Since 2005 we have maintained a financial goal of producing a mid-teens operating return on equity over time.
The over time aspect of the goal allows us to maintain the objective even when conditions are such that returns at that level are not immediately achievable on an accident year basis such as now.
If you adjust our year-to-date operating return on equity of 15% to more of an accident year look by excluding the impact of net favorable prior year development as well as the impacts of the favorable tax and legal resolutions the adjusted ROE is approximately 8.5%.
Also to achieve a mid-teens operating ROE over time there will be years where we must exceed the target because there will be other years when due to any number of factors we will fall below.
So it is clear that we have more work to do to achieve our objective and as a consequence our strategy remains intact.
We will continue to execute for improved returns just as we have been doing.
In Personal Insurance we have also had a strategy of improving profitability through higher pricing.
What has become apparent to us in the auto insurance line is that the combination of the rapid adoption of the comparative rater technology in independent agents offices which now is the source of the substantial amount of the quotes that we issue and changing consumer expectations for this product have impacted our new business volume meaningfully.
Consequently we have concluded that to improve profitability and to create long-term value we must have a more competitively priced product.
By leveraging technology and taking other actions we will make substantive changes to our business processes that we expect will allow us to meaningfully reduce costs without impacting service or quality.
Brian will take you through the details but through these actions we expect to be able to more competitively price our product and improve our profitability.
Before I hand it over to Jay I'd like to comment on our announcement in June that we agreed to acquire the Dominion of Canada.
This was a strategic move providing us with meaningful scale and market position in Canada.
We are enthusiastic about the opportunity and are looking forward to welcoming the Dominion employees to Travelers.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks very much Jay.
Let me start by saying how pleased we all are with the second quarter and year-to-date results.
And I do want to correct one thing Jay said on Page 21 of the webcast we do have a reconciliation of the operating return on equity year-to-date as reported of 15%.
And when you do adjustment in net favorable prior year development and the favorable tax and legal settlements it's actually 11.5% would be -- what we consider to be the accident year kind of run rate of that.
But with that our liquidity and capital positions remain very strong and we continue to generate capital in excess of what we need to support our businesses.
Operating cash flows of approximately $722 million for the quarter and $1.3 billion year-to-date were also very strong notwithstanding the cat losses that remain very high relative to historical standards although it's significantly below the corresponding prior year periods.
We maintained our strong cash position ending the quarter with holding company liquidity of just over $2 billion after returning $491 million of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $191 million and common share repurchases of $300 million.
Our strategy of returning excess capital to our shareholders remains unchanged.
As we've stated in the past the combination of dividends to common shareholders and common share repurchases will likely not exceed operating income over time.
And in any given period the difference between operating income and the level of dividends and share repurchases will also be a matter of timing.
I'd remind you also the amount of common share repurchases will also depend on a variety of additional factors including corporate and regulatory requirements maintaining capital levels commensurate with the company's ratings our share price pension funding needs strategic initiatives and other market conditions.
We've included an overview of our cat reinsurance coverage on Page 20 of the webcast which has been structured in a way that is generally consistent with the prior year.
Effective May 16 we entered into another 3-year reinsurance agreement with long-term -- Long Point Re III in which they issued $300 million of cat bonds providing us with Northeast hurricane coverage on a specified -- on specified lines of business subject to a $1.25 billion retention after which we can recover up to $300 million on a proportional basis until covered losses reach $1.8 billion.
Effective July 1 we renewed our gen cat treaty with terms that look similar to last year an attachment point of $1.5 billion and with covered losses of up to $400 million within the $1.5 billion to $2.25 billion level -- layer.
Also effective July 1 we renewed our $600 million Northeast gen cat treaty with the same $2.25 billion attachment point as in the prior year.
Given the current reinsurance pricing environment all of this was accomplished at a cost that was lower than the prior year.
A more complete description of our cat reinsurance coverage which also includes a description of our gen cat aggregate excess of loss treaty that covers an accumulation of certain property losses arising from multiple occurrences is included on our second quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier today as well as in our 10-K.
All of our capital ratios remained at or better than our target levels and we ended the quarter with a debt-to-total capital ratio of 20.1%.
Due to the recent rise in interest rates net unrealized investment gains decreased by $1.2 billion after-tax in the quarter driving a 2% reduction in book value per share in the quarter or 1% year-to-date.
This impact of higher interest rates more than offset the very positive impact on book value per share of our strong earnings which was the major driver of the change in adjusted book value per share.
Adjusted book value per share which excludes unrealized investment gains and losses increased 3% during the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
I would note that the rise in interest rate does have a positive side.
Going forward if interest rates stay at their current levels we'll be able to reinvest proceeds from maturing bonds at higher yields than we were previously assuming.
I would point out though that at current interest rate levels this will still result in a reduction in future net investment income just not as much.
The rise in interest rates also led to an $87 million after-tax realized investment gain this quarter due to our use of U.S.
Treasury futures to shorten the duration of the investment portfolio.
At the beginning of the year given the interest rate environment and the economic outlook we decided to increase our short position from its then nominal amount of $800 million.
The position was increased to $2 billion by the end of the first quarter and further increased to as much as $2.7 billion before the position was closed by the end of the second quarter due to our outlook for interest rates versus the carrying cost of this strategy.
Lastly I'd also like to point out that the rise in interest rates has not been significant enough to impact our pricing strategy in any meaningful way.
So Brian is now going to provide some further comments on operating results.
Jay just let me interrupt one second if I may.
I understand I misspoke and I know you corrected it but because it is so important please just let me reiterate that the adjusted ROE on what I described as the more of an accident look is 11.5%.
If I said 8.5% it was indeed just simply an error on my part.
It's 11.5%.
Thank you.
Brian I apologize.
No problem.
Thanks Jay.
I'll go right to the segment results beginning with Business Insurance where we continue to be extremely pleased with the fundamentals of the business.
The combined ratio for the quarter of 96.2% improved nearly 7 points versus the prior year while the underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats and prior year development improved over 3 points.
Looking at production results for the segment on Page 9 retention and renewal premium change were both strong and in line with recent periods at 80% and nearly 9% respectively while new business volume was down slightly from the first quarter.
Over the last 6 quarters the production trends have been remarkably stable with retention running consistently around 80% renewal price change between 8 and 10 points and rate around 7% to 8%.
Slides 10 through 12 show a basically similar story of consistency for each of the businesses within the segment and in each case the compounding effect of rate increases is driving a meaningful improvement in our combined ratios.
So the aggregate production results remain strong but as we've mentioned many times the aggregate numbers alone don't tell the entire story.
In fact the detail of where we are getting the rate and what accounts we are retaining is key to evaluating the success of our pricing strategy.
On Slide 13 we show our commercial accounts rate change and retention data for the second quarter of 2013 as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
The data is segmented by the individual account's long-term loss ratios with the bars on the left representing our best-performing accounts and the bars on the right representing our worst performing accounts.
We've shown this data before and I want to emphasize that it's a summarized version and the analytics we actually used to manage the business are at a much more granular level.
The results show that for our better accounts retention was very strong and rate change was solid and consistent with the year ago.
For our core performing business rate increases were up significantly year-over-year while retention was down meaningfully.
Additionally as you evaluate our results keep in mind that our rate actions over the past 3 years have improved the returns in each of these loss ratio bands.
So in fact although the aggregate pricing improvements are very consistent over the past 6 quarters an analysis of the underlying data reveals that our execution has in fact improved over time and is contributing to higher levels of profitability.
So overall in Business Insurance very encouraging picture.
The earned impact of these rate gains along with loss trend across the segment that continues to run at about 4% drove meaningful margin expansion.
Going forward our emphasis is continue to improve returns through maximizing the rate and retention trade-off at a very granular level.
In Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance operating income for the quarter was down 15% year-over-year due to higher catastrophe losses and less favorable prior year development.
The cat losses in the quarter were primarily due to the unprecedented flooding in Alberta Canada.
Excluding cats and prior year development the underlying combined ratio of 89.9% for the segment was strong and improved more than 2 points year-over-year.
This improvement was driven largely by expanding margins in our Management Liability business along with the impact of recent underwriting initiatives across the segment.
Written premium was up slightly compared to the prior year quarter driven by strong surety results continued favorable rate in Management Liability and new business in international partially offset by higher levels of written [ph] premiums.
In June we were pleased to announce our agreement to acquire the Dominion of Canada.
The combined business will benefit from Travelers' sophistication in the use of data and analytics as well as claim and risk control capabilities.
The Dominion's extensive distribution network provides us with an exceptional platform for expanding our commercial lines business in Canada.
In combining Travelers of Canada surety Management Liability and commercial middle market products with the Dominion's commercial and personal portfolios we'll create an organization with significant product breadth and a balanced mix of business.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2013 subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
In Personal Insurance operating income was up significantly versus the second quarter of 2012 due to lower levels of catastrophe losses and higher underlying underwriting margins.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter showed a 3-point improvement year-over-year with about 2 points driven by earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends.
Looking specifically at Auto production trends retention of 80% and renewal premium change of over 8% were both in line with recent periods.
Net written premium and new business volumes were down year-over-year as a result of our pricing actions.
Turning to Auto profitability.
The underlying combined ratio of 96.4% was an improvement of over 1 point versus the prior year quarter primarily reflecting the earned impact of the rate -- written rate gains we have achieved over the past several quarters.
Loss cost trends for Auto remain consistent with recent quarters with mix adjusted frequency continuing to be benign and severity stable at a slightly elevated level.
Specifically bodily injury severity this quarter remained in line with what we've seen in the previous 3 quarters.
In Homeowners pricing was also very strong with renewal premium change coming in at over 11%.
Retention was consistent at 83% while new business volume was down slightly from the prior year quarter.
The underlying combined ratio for Home was 81.5% in the quarter an improvement of over 3 points year-over-year.
The improvement was driven by a lower level of non-cat weather losses along with earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends.
So a very strong underwriting result and we are beginning to see the positive impact of our underwriting and pricing actions.
So overall a very good quarter.
But as Jay mentioned in his opening comments the personal auto marketplace is changing.
We remain committed to offering a product that is both competitively priced and delivers an appropriate return for our shareholders.
And accordingly we are taking expense reduction actions that will allow us to improve both pricing competitiveness and product returns.
Specifically we expect to reduce our claim and other insurance expenses such that we realize a savings of $140 million pretax when fully implemented.
This represents about a 10% reduction in our unallocated claim and other insurance expense base in Personal Insurance.
We will begin realizing some of these savings immediately and they will be fully realized in 2015.
The savings will be achieved through the consolidation of certain operations along with other efficiency gains throughout the business.
The majority of the savings will be driven by staff reductions primarily through attrition but we will also be giving notice to approximately 450 employees this week.
We expect to take a restructuring charge of about $16 million $10 million of which is expected to be incurred in the third quarter of 2013.
While some of these savings will be realized in our Homeowners business the majority of the impact will be in Auto and these actions are clearly aimed at improving our strategic position in that line.
We are pleased with the progress we've made in the personal lines business and we believe these actions will allow us to offer an even more competitive product in a challenging marketplace.
I'll now turn it over to Gabby.
Thank you Brian.
Before we open it for questions I'd like to note that the management team is participating from several different locations this morning so please bear with us as we coordinate our responses.
With that Andre can we open it up for questions please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Two quick questions.
First it relates to pricing.
In terms of the Business Insurance pricing trends I'm looking at the renewal rate change.
Do you think based on where we are and what rates we have achieved in the past does the RRC and Business Insurance does it stay somewhat flattish from here? Or does it change meaningfully from here? So let me start.
This is Brian MacLean.
Let me start with an answer and then Jay or Jay chime in.
I -- the first observation I'd make is when we look at the actual results so we're not going to go far out in the crystal ball world but if we look at the actual results over the last 6 quarters from Page 10 it's incredibly stable.
The red line there of renewal rate change is basically rounding off of 7.5% for all of those quarters.
So what we saw in the quarter was very consistent with where we've been.
Our view about it -- I would want to emphasize what we said in the presentation that we don't have a target and it's not necessarily about attaining a specific level of rate gain it's about achieving returns.
So we're looking very granularly and obviously trying to retain the best business and drive the price increases on the weaker stuff.
There can be a -- next quarter a rate change number identical to the one that we just have which might be generating much better returns or much worse depending on where you get it.
So we're very focused on the segmentation.
As far out as we're going to go is what we saw in the quarter was very consistent.
June was a pretty strong month.
July looks like it's trending pretty consistently but where the market's going to be in 3 4 5 months we'll all see.
But we haven't seen anything in our results that would say that the market is about to shift dramatically and the fundamental situation with interest rates and weather volatility continues.
Brian would you agree that over the last 3 years as more of the Commercial Business has moved from the right side to the left side and as a consequence more as in the higher margin rather than the lower margin business? That achieving a flat rate in that same environment is actually net underneath an actual improvement.
Yes.
And what you mean by flat rate is 7.5% round number rate increase? Correct.
It's really the rate applied to the mix that is the important factor here.
Right.
When we look at our granular execution and the impact of now a couple of years of rate increases on the portfolio we feel the round numbers 80% retention 7.5% rate we're getting today is producing a much better result than the 80% and 7.5% renewal rate change we were getting 1.5 years ago.
So we feel very good about it.
Got it.
That's helpful.
I'm sorry go ahead.
I was just going to say but don't see any major shifts in what's going on in the market.
Yes.
One quarter does not make a trend but we'll see.
The only other question I had is on...
I will just make an observation.
It's not one quarter.
It's been a lot of quarters.
And just an observation as to the data.
That's all.
Yes.
The other question was on Dominion Dominion's business mix and a combined ratio.
And I know it's a bit too early.
Just looking at their business mix and their combined ratios could you just sort of broadly talk about what your strategy might be and how it might differ versus the current strategy? Sure.
Amit it's Alan Schnitzer.
But when you're talking about the current strategy I'm not sure exactly which one you're asking.
I'm talking about the combined ratios 106.1% for 2012 and their top line is $1.2 billion.
Just sort of broader thoughts on that going forward.
How does that change? Does it change near term? Or does it take somewhat longer to turn that around? Sure.
Let me take a stab at that.
So stepping back the transaction really is a strategic transaction for us.
It gives us important scale and competitive position in a big market that currently we're -- we don't have either in.
So from a strategic perspective we think it's important.
In terms of what's driving that combined ratio a lot of that is their personal lines Auto business.
And we think that when we bring our data and analytics and claim expertise to that marketplace we can -- and it'll take some time but we think we can substantially improve that result.
Also they've got a small commercial platform that we like a lot.
We think we can bring our expertise and analytics from that business into that marketplace.
And one of the real benefits for us in this transaction is that they've got a terrific distribution platform in Canada and we like the opportunity to expand our commercial middle market products through their distribution.
So we think that there is good premium growth in the platform from that.
So -- and looking overall in international we've been certainly over the last couple of years focused on investing in that business and managing the loss side which we've done very effectively over the last couple of years.
So we're very confident that when we apply that same expertise to the Dominion we'll be able to have positive effects on that.
One of the impacts of what we've been doing for a couple of years is the expense ratio has ticked up both from investing in people and data and analytics and also from over the years having shed some premium that didn't meet the risk and reward calculation for us.
So the additional volume that comes on from Dominion really helps us from the expense side as well.
So that's really sort of the outlook and the strategic positioning of the transaction.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to margins in the press release I noticed that low levels of large losses were cited at -- within the international segment.
And I also noticed that lower levels of non-catastrophe weather-related losses were cited in personal lines.
So I guess does that mean we should build some margin cushion into our forward estimates given non-cat level large losses have been running below historical averages? Or am I thinking about that wrong -- the wrong way? Yes.
This is Jay Benet.
As we've said in previous quarters any individual quarter is going to be impacted by things that go well beyond the general flow of earned rate versus what you'd consider to be the underlying loss trend.
Now we spike out at least verbally because that's probably as good as it's going to get.
We have things like large loss activity and some view as to with the non-cat weather favorable or unfavorable relative to the prior year and we try to give you that perspective.
What we always suggest you do is look at the longer-term view as to what the combined ratio looks like x cat and few ID [ph] and with those words around and what others say try to get a view as to what the weather looks like and build that into your models.
I hope that's helpful because that's probably as granular as we can get with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes it just stood out because I know in 2Q of last year you also cited lower levels of large losses.
Yes because the other thing you could do is we wrestle with this as well.
So we try to put some words into the outlook within the 10-Q that might also be helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last question in regards to investment income levels.
I noticed the portfolio's average pretax yield actually rose a bit sequentially to 3.9%.
And I think you cited duration increasing.
Can you comment on how we should perspectively think about those dynamics given the recent increases in new money rates? Well I think what -- it's Bill Heyman.
I'd go first to what Jay said earlier and that is the recent increase in market rates obviously permits us to put new money out at better rate than we were before but still at rates below the book yields on maturing securities.
So I think I would simply take the projections which Jay has made in the past of net investment income going out 2 3 4 years and tweak them for this increase in rates and frankly I wouldn't tweak them much.
If this is -- if what we have seen in June is all we're going to see in 2013 and some will think that may be the case I wouldn't make major changes in projections.
Yes if I could add a couple of things.
The -- we talked about the short position in treasury futures.
And by eliminating that at the end of the quarter that had an impact of slightly expanding the duration of the portfolio.
Having said that too the rise in interest rates also expands the duration of the portfolio given the expected impact on bonds that would be called or not called under that circumstance.
So the change in duration is really not a structural change at all in the portfolio.
And as Bill just said the rise in interest rates would have a fairly moderate impact on the reinvestment yields so -- given how much is rolling over versus what's enforced.
And in our 10-Q in the outlook section we talk about all of this having an impact that would suggest about $25 million less in after-tax net investment income off of the fixed income portfolio per quarter going forward if interest rates stay where they are and I think before we said the out number was about $30 million.
So it's a relatively modest impact.
And Jay I would just make some one observation.
You just -- you mentioned in passing that the gain was attributable to closing the position.
That's actually not completely correct because it's a mark-to-market position so whether we had closed it or not closed it the gain would have been there.
We closed it because of our expectations of interest rates and the relative cost of carrying the position.
But the position is a daily mark-to-market position.
That's entirely right.
Thanks for correcting that Jay.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So obviously we've all been very impressed for the past couple of years with your pricing leadership pricing approaching I guess 20% at this point.
You've helpfully done the math for us in 11% or 12% x your ROE.
And there's obviously still some pricing yet to earn in and rates are moving higher and so I think we're all sort of sitting out here just scratching our heads trying to figure out how much longer pricing will continue.
You've given us some guidance which is helpful in your Q.
And I'm wondering if you can just expand the math a bit and give us a sense when you've actually worked with your actuaries and meet with your insurance regulators and share them with your indications how much more rate in some of your major segments do you actually need to take at these levels? Jay you want to start or...
Yes I was just taking about how to do that.
First I -- we've always said that one of the things we can't do is to in any way is to project or speculate competitive reactions.
So just because we articulate pretty clearly what we intend to do it certainly doesn't mean that it's going to happen or that we approach it with that certainty.
But nonetheless we continue to have a space to go.
We've been saying for the longest time and I take some pride in the fact that the objective the financial objective that we articulated now some 8 years ago is one that we stayed with consistently.
It's not been remanufactured to be convenient to the environment.
It is what we think long-term returns in our business should be and hopefully can be again.
But our goal is to get back to the mid-teens return on equity over time and at 11.5% now on an accident year basis round numbers we still have a ways to go.
Not all products are the same very important.
Not all businesses are the same.
And as a consequence not all pricing strategies are the same.
We talk all the time about the analytic grid that demonstrates high to low returns and our emphasis on pricing relative to that.
But every time you take a step up it changes whether you're talking about an individual product line like Workers' Comp or property or whether you're talking about a particular business like construction versus our surety business.
So the strategies are all quite different and they are all return-driven.
But in the aggregate we are going to continue to push as long as we can until such time as we bring ourselves back to the long-term objective.
And I think that's probably about as clear as we can be.
I -- we've resisted even internally setting artificial goals or targets or budgets and rather always look at what we've always articulated as our long-term goals to be.
Yes.
So 2 things that I would add because Josh in your question you put in there rates moving.
I would just point out that the rate movement that we just saw in interest rate has really had virtually no impact on our pricing and to some degree because it was a relatively small move in rates.
But even the 100 basis points at one point in time at the 10 year got a lot of play.
The duration of our liability is significantly shorter than that.
So you have to look at the whole yield curve and see where rates are moving.
So that has had minimal impact.
And we'd need quite a bit of movement in interest rates before started changing pricing significantly.
And the other...
We -- actually Brian just in that regard we asked and I do think these 2 comments are important most of our call it free cash I don't mean to define that term but most of our free cash is used in buying back share.
So if you look at our portfolio position over the last several years it's actually been relatively flat.
And most of our investing is reinvesting.
And so we're not -- it's not as if we're deploying significant amounts of new cash we've been deploying it in buying back shares.
We did ask our actuaries to make an estimate of what a 100 basis point increase would be in the entire curve if there was a shift because of course every product is invested -- the underlying products have a duration philosophy is tied to the -- that's tied to the asset.
They're not directly matched but it's very much a philosophical match.
And this is just an estimate and I perhaps even would call it a guesstimate.
But in terms of returns the equivalent of 100 basis point move in the yield curve would be about 2 to 3 points in pricing rate.
So 2 to 3 points in price would be equivalent in returns to 100 basis point move in the entire yield curve.
Brian am I recalling that correctly? Yes that's correct.
Yes.
Yes.
The other quick thing I'd point out is that weather volatility is still there.
And although our second quarter cat number was dramatically less than what we have seen the last 2 years it is dramatically higher than what 3 years ago we would have said was historical second quarter norms.
So that is still out there and the marketplace needs to deal with it.
So that's kind of our view.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Jay Brian.
Just one other question on strategy and distribution evolution.
So your comments about the evolution of comparative raters agents starting to use them for renewal business as well start to get sort of -- raise a whole bunch of questions and it's not obviously as good for the agents or -- and certainly more challenging for the company.
I'm wondering if you can talk about how you think that your sort of broader sort of agency strategy evolves more if there's going to be changes in commissions or if you fundamentally try to change your position or approach to that market? And then just more broadly related to that same point is this something that sort of starts in Auto and then moves to Home and moves the Select and ultimately as sort of a Pandora's box once it's opened? So let me -- this is Brian.
Let me start with a couple of comments and then Jay.
And I'll go to your last comment first Josh which is clearly we look at this and say it doesn't have to be just a personal auto dynamic but complexity of product is really significant in being able to build an efficient rater technology and business process.
So even Homeowners is fairly more complicated than Auto and you get into the commercial products and much more complicated than Auto.
So we watch it closely but we don't think we're on the verge of comparative raters everywhere.
And then I'd say the big backdrop to the question is we're not looking at a fundamental shift across the board of how we deal with independent agents.
One of the great strengths of our franchise is the position that we have with agents and we have a lot of products and we have a lot of breadth and we're going to continue to leverage that working with them closely on what their business process is and how we continue to together bring a value proposition to the customers is important.
With that said everything is on the table where we're constantly looking it all the dimensions of it but we feel good about where we are with agents.
Jay? Yes I know I'd -- just an observation.
I think we have a well-deserved and well-earned reputation for being a low-cost-oriented company.
We know from experience I think how to do that thoughtfully and in the best interest of the business.
I think Brian's comment is right.
We're determined to be successful in the business.
We have an $8 billion premium combined personal lines business and in fact everything is on the table.
But we do know how to do this.
And the comparative rating technology I get asked all the time is the product becoming a commodity? And I'm always quick to answer no.
A commodity is a product where the only thing that doesn't matter is the price because all the prices are the same.
Every -- oil the price is the same.
And that's not the case here.
There are value differentiations and value perceptions and strength to agents and strength to customers and there are differentiations.
What the rater is doing though clearly is increasing price competitiveness at the point-of-sale.
The technology has introduced the ability of agents to see greater multiples of prices much more easily.
And we do think that the onslaught of advertising over the last and this is just an opinion I can't prove it as a fact but the onslaught of advertising in the space over the last 10 years has brought customers to the view that value is a more important component value dollars of the purchase than perhaps it was previously.
So it's going to force a greater level of price competition and I think we're up to the task.
And that's what we're going to do.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So one question I had for I guess maybe for Brian first is just looking -- I know we look at this on a year-over-year basis but sequentially the combined -- the underlying combined in business was up a bit.
And then -- and even going back and looking at 1Q to 2Q it's not clear that the second quarter is always higher than the first.
And even if we'd look at year-over-year I mean you're 400 basis points better in the first quarter 300 basis points-ish better here in the second.
Just trying to understand that -- was non-cat weather an element of that comparison? Or any color there on kind of the margin in Business Insurance? Yes Mike.
I think there's always -- as Jay Benet was saying before there's always volatility in the individual quarters.
Nothing fundamental with the trend has changed over where we were with first quarter.
And I know deltas have shifted a little bit.
If you look at our data on Page 9 3.1 points of underlying combined ratio better than last year and the first quarter was better than that.
That was the movement in those other things.
So we're going to have large losses go up or down or non-cat weather go up or down relative to the previous quarter.
I think that we're still in the same place we were in the first quarter where we think the core underlying margins here in BI are improving somewhere between 2.5 and 3 points for the business.
And that is unchanged from where we were in first quarter.
And everything has been as I said before pretty stable both rate and loss trend there.
So we don't see any fundamental shift.
I know the numbers do move around a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I'm just trying to understand given -- so that's great.
So the 2.5 to 3 points remain so you had some noise maybe in second quarter.
But is it possible to just give some parentheses around the rate-driven margin expansion that you saw in the first quarter versus the second quarter? Just because -- again I mean this is the first -- I mean we've had 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 consecutive quarters of sequential improvement in that underlying combined...
Yes that's -- I think what I was trying to say Mike is the rate-driven margin improvement is the 2.5 to 3.
When we try to back out the quarterly periodic volatility and what's the impact of the rate we're earning in versus the core loss trend that continues to run at 2.5 3 combined ratio points.
And again you have to do the arithmetic to get the -- just bring it through the combined ratio to get the math to work.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay great.
And then I guess one question on the actions in personal lines.
Any thought around in this process the direct business and kind of cost rationalization or continued investment on that front? The decision is certainly not being driven by the direct business but the direct business will most certainly benefit from a lower priced product.
So it will certainly help in that regard.
I do want to reemphasize so that everyone understands clearly that the intention here is to lower cost and increase profitability.
So the reduction in cost will in effect not be passed on entirely to the price of the product.
Some of it will be retained in the form of improved profit.
At least that's the plan.
So it'll help.
It'll certainly help the direct business.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the personal lines segment.
The policy counts are -- and I mean you've admitted the policy count declines are pretty stunning and accelerating it seems at least this year.
Homeowners back to 2006 levels personal auto back to '04 levels the direct initiative seems to have stalled.
So you guys are losing a lot of share.
You've admitted that.
What I'm wondering is is the cost plan enough? In other words is there -- there's clearly a pricing problem in the marketplace with this segment.
So is the cost plan enough such as you can cut your pricing or get more competitive to begin to stem the share losses? And then second is what's the timing around when we'll see the tangible actions in the P&amp;L from a PIF perspective? I'm sort of wrestling with how long to take the share losses down in my model? Yes.
Let me start Jay and then throw it to you and so I'd -- several comments there.
And maybe one of the things I'd say right at the front is that the actions we're taking today are somewhat -- the expense actions are somewhat a reaction to what's going on in our top line but more focused on reacting longer term to some changing dynamics in the marketplace.
So it's not just a -- because the PIF is down 12%.
I would look at -- so a couple of things number one is...
Brian can I also ask you to speak because Greg asked the question with Home Auto direct and I think there is a distinction to be made there as well.
Yes so let me start with Auto where we -- on the retail auto business through our agent channel.
For starters retentions remain pretty solid and that's been a positive.
So although it's down a couple of points it's still running at a solid level and the shortfall has been in new business.
And as we've said and maybe has been obvious that's clearly been impacted by our pricing action.
We feel good that returns have improved that the -- and 6 months are consistent with our expectations.
And our price changes independent of the expense actions would -- will be mitigating as you've seen in the last couple of quarters with the Auto business.
So hopefully that will bring the us back in line.
The industry did post the 104.5% combined ratio last year.
So it is a product that is needed rate and we feel good about the actions we take.
We've taken we think the expense actions.
And as we said before anything else that we need to do in this business everything is on the table is really -- are really focused on improving that and helping us deal with the changing marketplace.
So the Homeowners business we view as fundamentally different there.
We think there are some real capacity issues.
That was I think much more of a focused weather exposure kind of actions.
And so it's not just the pricing we've been driving there which has fundamentally been driven by the losses the weather losses that has been come through.
But it's also other actions we've taken from underwriting deductibles terms and conditions that have really really driven us.
So we feel very good about where our Homeowners business is right now and feel like we're in a position to move forward.
The tricky part of your question is where do we think the impacts -- well what's the time horizon? We don't really forecast that out.
We're looking at clearly a different PIF situation for 2014.
But we'll see what that is okay? And just a closing comment on the direct because Brian I think you got both of those just right.
The dynamic in direct is very much what we've been intending to do.
We've been doing a test a test of pricing sensitivity.
And so our -- and people have asked you your advertising is down.
Yes our advertising is down very intentionally because we've been focused on testing price elasticity in a very limited number of markets and gaining some insight into what that means.
So I would just observe that there isn't anything in our direct channel other than also seeing and observing of course that pricing really matters great shock pricing really matters.
And so again what we're going to do in the personal space here will most -- we hope we believe will certainly help the direct channel as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just to follow up on this because the answer is very thorough but what I'm wrestling with is I love that you're getting good price in the business and the retentions are holding in.
So clearly the core client base is sticking with the Travelers once in the umbrella.
Direct is so small.
It just seems like -- it's like an experiment in a way in the P&amp;L.
But really in the agency side of Homeowners and Auto it's the lack of the ability to attract new clients in.
And I'm wondering if it's more than just the expense side.
I'm wondering if it's actually you need to start to ramp advertising a lot more.
You need to re-architect the product which you mentioned.
I don't know if that costs money.
I don't know if that's technology.
In other words I'm just -- I'm trying to wrestle with the cost to fix the new business acquisition engine in the Auto segment and...
The analytics that we have indicate maybe even more than indicate that pricing sensitivity for new business through comparative raters is just significantly different than it was in the past.
And we have all sorts of data that shows when you're lowest in the comparative raters space when you're second lowest and when you're third lowest.
And so we know what it takes to be successful.
And so I -- we don't believe that there's anything with respect to our product that needs to be reengineered or -- I mean we're always filing changes.
We're always filing changes in pricing.
We're always filing changes in underwriting and claimants.
So there's always changes going on.
But we believe this is the issue in the new business front.
And you're right the renewal business has been quite stable and that is very encouraging.
So we think we're on the right path here.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions here for you.
First Jay I'm just curious the acquisition of Dominion nice opportunistic acquisition.
But given where your stock price now is trading on a price-to-book multiple does it change at all your thought process with respect to capital allocation? Are acquisitions here potentially more attractive than share buyback? No I don't believe so.
This was -- there were a couple of things about the Dominion transaction that were really appealing to us.
One is it gave us some real size and scale in a market where we just were lacking badly; two there were some scarcity value up there.
There are precious few companies to be acquired.
They're either mutuals or subsidiaries of larger companies or very large companies themselves.
So there is a scarcity value.
And it provided a first-rate management team we think and a terrific systems and technology and a platform to do business.
So it had several compelling reasons that really just had us think about it as a special opportunity but not thinking about it differently in the context of capital management no.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the second question I wonder if you could chat a little bit about the small commercial business.
It seems to continue to be a little sluggish there.
Is that because of the economic environment? Is it because that there's maybe more competitive down there? Why is it tending to be a little bit slower from a growth standpoint actually declining this quarter on a written premium basis than some of the other lines? Yes Brian this is Brian MacLean.
I'll start.
There's several things that going on there.
We've talked a while back about what was going on in the larger end plus we talked a little bit about Auto trends that we were seeing in commercial and specifically in the Select world.
So there were some targeted underwriting actions that we were taking which we have now pretty much worked through.
And it was a business if you think of -- it's almost a great example of the segmentation concept that I was talking about in commercial accounts.
If you looked across our spectrum of businesses in Business Insurance a couple of years ago Select would've been one that from a return perspective we were struggling with more than others.
So it would've been on the writer side of the graph of our businesses.
And if you look at the pricing that we've gotten there and in that business RPC is really driving to the bottom line we've gone to the point where we feel pretty good.
We've worked through some underwriting actions and that's one that we would be hopeful expecting that as the return picture has improved we're going to be retaining more of that business going forward.
So it is -- it's -- we feel good about how we've executed but we think the trajectory there should be changing in the future.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of things.
First I guess 2 questions on pricing.
The first is the good news on pricing was on the international side it looks like there was an inflection point to the positive side.
Can you talk about what's happening there? Yes Jay it's Alan Schnitzer.
Certainly it did pick up a little bit.
I wouldn't call it an inflection point.
And I'd say that the pricing dynamics outside of the United States continue to be very different than what we see in the United States.
I think what you're seeing in our results in particular come from our efforts recently to increase our use of data and analytics and manage the portfolio and profitability.
I wouldn't say there's an overall shift in the market though.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess getting back to Business Insurance.
You described the pricing environment over the past several years as quite stable and clearly that shows up in the graph.
This deceleration that you've seen modest as it is in the second quarter investors are very sensitive to this.
And I'm wondering -- I think Brian you had mentioned July being reasonably good.
If you could give us some indication of where July stood relative to June or relative to the 2Q that would be helpful because again people are very sensitive to this issue.
You stock is up 2.3%.
Any color would definitely be helpful.
Yes and I think -- so I completely get it.
I'll on one hand admit that we obsess over fractional movements in these things but I think we and the marketplace are obsessing a little too much.
And I know we've got a better window into the detail than you do.
So if you look at -- we ticked down a little bit from last quarter literarily rounding off of 7.5% which had ticked up a little bit from the fourth quarter.
So the numbers have really been about in the aggregate 7.5%.
Within Business Insurance June was the strongest of the 3 months in the quarters.
But again I'm talking about fractions of a point here of the difference between 7.2% and 7.4% in total rate.
And July looks like -- right now our look of July looks like it might be a little bit better than June.
But again I'm talking about rounding a couple of cents of a point.
So I don't mean to overemphasize it.
We get the sensitivity.
I think we're all watching the market closely.
But it's been about where it's been for a while.
And then the last point I'd make is we're really actively managing the business.
We're trying to make sure we're getting it in the right places and...
Yes.
Brian I was actually just going to interrupt because I do think that's so important.
These conversations there's almost a backdrop as if somehow pricing is magically obtained from a third-party source from somewhere.
What we're getting is what we're trying to get.
I ask the question all the time are we trying to get 12% and we're getting 7%? And the answer is no.
We're managing this process very thoughtfully always with a focus to not having disruption to agents or customers.
We're in the business for the long term.
We look at returns over time and will continue to march in improving returns.
And as long as we're moving that way we feel pretty good.
And by the way the retention remains as solid as it has and you can see from the more detailed graph how strong that really is.
Research Division</strong> So I guess really the main point based on this conversation is that the monthly data trend does not suggest any sort of slip-off any notable slip-off? And what you're saying is the market to you does not feel like it is softening at this point despite this modest deceleration in the 2Q? Well first it's only July 23 I think so it's a little -- always a little reluctant to declare anything.
We're only 3 quarters of the way through the month.
So what we're getting is to some extent anecdotal with some data around it.
So it's early.
It's early.
But if you -- on a more anecdotal basis if you speak to people in the field you don't get the comment back that there's any substantive change or receptiveness to our strategy.
Brian would you agree with that? Yes -- no I completely agree.
And Jay basically I think the way you asked the question yes we'd agree with that that what we've seen in our results and what we see and what were out in the marketplace quoting on the market looks the same to us as it's been for a number of quarters now.
We hear the same rhetoric but what we see and what we hear from our people is that it's continuing to move at about the same pace.
Our final question comes from the line of Clifford Gallant with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> There's been talk in the reinsurance marketplace that some of the new capacity that's come in has perhaps structurally changed the business maybe made reinsurance permanently cheaper or at least more stable.
I'm curious how do you -- how will that affect your business over time and how you manage things? Yes this is Jay Benet.
Well first of all as we've said in the past we operate the business as a gross under -- gross lines underwriter.
We don't rely on reinsurance to be in a particular marketplace.
And when we do have reinsurance it's generally in the larger risk or certainly in the cat area.
As it relates to our view of the market and I'm sure there are others who have a more intense view with their utilizing the market a lot more than we are but given our view of the market it would seem like there's a lot of capacity that's come in on the upper level cat kind of coverages.
And that's helped drive prices down.
And as I mentioned the cost that we had this July of renewing our coverages were favorable so it costs us less.
How that's going to translate or if it will translate into the working layer-type benefits to companies that rely on that we don't have any great insight but it would seem to us at least unlikely that that's going to be where this capacity would want to play.
So it's not a big impact on our business for sure and we'll see what happens going forward in the marketplace.
But it seems like most of this capacity would be for higher-level cat coverage where the expectation of loss -- of actual losses taking place would be very very low.
This does conclude our Q&amp;A session for today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Nawi.
Very good.
Thank you for joining us today and always in Investor Relations we are available for questions and answers.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the third quarter results teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Tuesday October 22 2013.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may now begin.
Thank you Tina.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our third quarter 2013 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I'd like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks and responses to questions we may make mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Our financial results this quarter were really strong.
We posted quarterly operating income of $883 million a 15.2% operating return on equity and record quarterly operating income per diluted share of $2.35.
Net income was $864 million or $2.30 per diluted share producing a 13.9% return on equity.
In the quarter we returned nearly $1 billion of capital to shareholders continuing to deliver on our long-term financial goal of producing strong profitability and returning excess capital to shareholders.
While the current quarter certainly benefited from low weather-related losses most importantly our underlying underwriting profitability continued to improve across our businesses largely the result of the successful execution of the pricing and underwriting actions we have been pursuing over the last several years.
While we are really pleased with our financial results not just in the current quarter or year-to-date but over now more than 5 years we continue to expect to be confronted with more volatile weather patterns and historically low interest rates.
As it relates to weather notwithstanding the fact that in this quarter we had very low catastrophe losses on a year-to-date basis our pre-tax cat losses now stand at nearly $540 million.
To put that in perspective that number again a 9-month figure with a fairly benign third quarter approaches the $600 million of catastrophe losses that we provided at the end of 2009 in connection with our full year 2010 guidance.
It is worth noting that over that period of time we believe that our catastrophe exposure has not changed meaningfully but losses have risen as a result of increased frequency and severity of weather events.
An interesting way of observing this phenomena is through the data on Slide 4 of our webcast where we have displayed the number of extreme weather events with economic losses over $1 billion by year over the last 30-plus years.
While this data does adjust losses for inflation it does not take into account exposure growth over time.
Nonetheless it is hard not to take notice of the trend.
We of course evaluate weather over the long term and continue to believe that more recent weather patterns are different and cause us to anticipate higher levels of frequency and severity of weather-related losses.
As to fixed-income yields we continue to believe that interest rates will remain at historically low levels at least until 2016.
Although the long end of the yield curve has moved somewhat it is not yet enough to make a difference in the return profile of our business in any significant way.
Total yields remain just off historical lows.
Consequently in our commercial lines businesses we will continue to pursue improved profitability and product returns by seeking higher rates on an account by account basis so as to continue to minimize disruption to our agents and customers.
So far this strategy has worked exceptionally well and we expect that at least for some time across our portfolio we will be able to continue to achieve written rate gains in excess of estimated loss trend.
In Personal Insurance we're excited about the launch of our new product Quantum 2.0 during the fourth quarter of this year.
We are hopeful that this lower cost lower-priced Auto insurance product will allow us to improve volumes at attractive returns.
We will know more as we get into 2014.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thank you Jay.
Let me begin by saying that our third quarter results operating income of $2.35 per diluted share a record level and operating ROE of 15.2% were very strong having benefited from solid investment and underwriting performance.
Our combined ratio of 88.9% was also very strong reflecting earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends in each of our business segments a relatively low level of both cat and non-cat weather-related losses and $158 million of net favorable prior year reserve development which was net of an increase to our asbestos reserves.
As has been the case in recent periods while the underlying asbestos environment has remained essentially unchanged payment trends have been moderately higher than what we had expected.
For the quarter excluding the asbestos provision which in a 10-year table would be included in the prior to 2004 accident year row each accident year developed favorably and each product line developed favorably or was essentially unchanged.
We continue to generate capital in excess of what is needed to support our businesses and consistent with our strategy we have returned a very significant amount of capital to our shareholders.
Operating cash flows in excess of $1.6 billion were extremely strong this quarter bringing total operating cash flows to almost $2.9 billion year-to-date.
We ended the quarter with holding company liquidity of approximately $1.9 billion after returning almost $1 billion of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $185 million and common share repurchases of $800 million.
Year-to-date we returned almost $2 billion of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $552 million and common share repurchases of $1.4 billion leaving us with only $759 million remaining under previous share repurchase authorizations as of the end of the third quarter.
Since we may exhaust this amount before the end of the year as announced today our Board of Directors authorized an additional $5 billion of share repurchases.
All of our capital ratios remained at or better than their target levels.
Our debt-to-total cap ratio of 21.4% was well within its target range although up slightly in the quarter due to our successfully issuing $500 million of 30-year 4.6% senior debt at the end of July.
Book value per share increased 2% and adjusted book value per share which excludes unrealized investment gains and losses increased 3% during the quarter.
While year-to-date book value per share increased 1% and adjusted book value per share increased 8%.
The difference between the unadjusted and adjusted year-to-date growth rates in book value per share was driven by the impact that the recent rise in interest rates had on net unrealized investment gains.
Net unrealized investment gains were approximately $1.6 billion at the end of the third quarter as compared to $3.1 billion at the beginning of the year.
So with that let me turn the mic over to Brian who's going to comment further on operating results.
Thanks Jay.
In Business Insurance we had a great quarter with operating income of $526 million and a combined ratio of 93%.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats and prior year development improved by about 1 point year-over-year and reflected about 2.5 points of margin expansion due to earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends.
When comparing the combined ratios quarter-over-quarter any one quarter can be lumpy.
This quarter the comparison was negatively impacted by an unusually low level of non-cat weather-related losses in the third quarter 1 year ago and to a lesser extent a couple of non-run rate adjustments that helped last year's combined ratio.
On a year-to-date basis the underlying combined ratio improved nearly 3 points due primarily to the earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends and this is a better indicator of how the business is performing.
Looking at the production results for the segment on Page 10 retention and renewal premium change remained strong and in line with recent periods at 80% and 9% respectively while new business volume was up slightly versus the prior year.
The renewal premium change was driven by pure rate increases of 7.1% and exposure and other of about 2%.
Rate increases continued to be broad based and range from 6% to 10% across all lines led by Commercial Auto and Worker's Compensation.
So in the aggregate the production metrics in the quarter were very stable across the segment and we continue to be pleased with this result.
But as we've emphasized in the past the detail behind how we got to the aggregate result is what's really important and we remain very pleased with our granular execution as well.
The segmented rate and retention results remain largely consistent with what we've discussed in prior quarters.
For our best-performing business retention remained very high with written rate gains exceeding loss trend while we continue to get significant rate increases on our poor-performing accounts.
So overall a great story in the segment.
We saw meaningful underlying underwriting margin expansion due to earned rate gains that continued to significantly exceed the loss trend which remained consistent at approximately 4%.
Going forward we will continue to execute on our strategy of improving returns by maximizing the rate and retention trade-off at a very granular level.
In Financial Professional &amp; International Insurance operating income of $160 million was very strong though down 11% from last year.
The prior year quarter benefited from a particularly low level of large losses which along with year-over-year lower net favorable prior year reserve development drove the decrease.
Similarly the underlying combined ratio of 92.5% deteriorated by 1.1 points due to the higher level of large losses in the third quarter of 2013 largely offset by earned rate that exceeded loss cost trend in both our bond and financial products and international businesses.
Written premiums in this segment were up 6% compared to the prior year quarter driven by continued favorable rate in Management Liability strong construction surety results and higher new business in International.
In Personal Insurance operating income of $262 million was up 27% versus the third quarter of 2012 while the underlying combined ratio for the quarter improved nearly 6 points year-over-year driven by lower weather-related losses along with nearly 2 points attributable to earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends.
Looking specifically at Auto production retention of 81% kicked up from recent periods renewal premium change was over 7% while new business volumes and net written premiums were down year-over-year.
Turning to Auto profitability the underlying combined ratio of 97.6% was an improvement of 0.5 point versus the prior year quarter.
The underlying loss ratio improved about 1.5 points primarily reflecting earned rates that exceeded loss cost trend while the expense ratio was up about 1 point due to some unusual items including a charge related to the expense action we discussed last quarter.
Excluding the impact of these items the expense ratio would have been about flat quarter-over-quarter.
Auto loss cost trends remain stable at about 5% overall mix-adjusted frequency continue to be benign while severity trend remain stable at a slightly elevated level.
Specifically bodily injury severity trend this quarter remained in line with what we've seen over the past few quarters.
I'd like to take a moment to talk about Quantum 2.0 our new Auto product which we began rolling out this week and will be rolling out in approximately 15 states during the fourth quarter.
Our goal is to offer a lower cost highly sophisticated and segmented auto product that successfully competes in the marketplace and generates an appropriate return.
Quantum 2.0 helps us to achieve that goal by leveraging 8 years of data and experience from Quantum 1.0 to create a more granular and highly segmented product.
It will also benefit from a significantly lower cost structure thanks to both the expense reduction that we announced last quarter along with a base commission rate that is approximately 2 points slower than Quantum 1.0.
When fully realized the combined impact of these savings will be about a 12% reduction in the non-loss cost base for the product.
So a significant impact.
We're very excited about this product.
We believe that Quantum 2.0 will allow us to improve our competitive position drive increased business volumes and deliver improved returns.
Turning to Homeowners pricing was also very strong in the quarter with renewal premium change of 11% retention stable at 83% and new business volume that was up slightly from the prior year quarter.
The underlying combined ratio for Home was 71.6% in the quarter an improvement of over 7 points year-over-year.
The primary driver of the improvement was lower non-cat weather-related losses but we also saw over 1 point of improvement due to earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trend.
So a very strong underwriting result for the segmented in the quarter as we continue to see the positive impact of the underwriting and pricing actions we've taken.
With that let me turn it back over to Gabby.
Thank you.
Tina we're ready for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Tina? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Randy Binner of FBR.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to go to Page 10.
And given that there's so much kind of focus on the red line there the renewal rate change I wanted to understand why the previous historical numbers in that chart can kind of adjust down a little bit each time we see this presentation.
What drives kind of a revision to those prior quarter numbers each time you update this illustration? Right Randy this is Jay Fishman.
I'll start and then I'll have Brian chime in as well.
First to your -- we enter into a month's production period.
Policies renew policies don't renew.
But it doesn't end as of the reporting date.
There can be transactions cancellations endorsements changes in pricing even that occur after the reporting date.
So we're always going back and making not adjustments but truing up the reported numbers to what the most recent data actually is.
Now I'd make a point that the rate change the rate change actually is far less than the exposure change will be in a given period.
Exposure has audit adjustments embedded in it and as a consequence as those are reflected they will have more change.
The rate change if you look back has actually been relatively modest and generally is a result of cancellations early cancellations midterms or other endorsements.
But I'll ask Brian to chime in a little too.
Yes.
And one of the things I'll just emphasize is that at the top of the page it says "Illustrative Business Statistics." So this isn't an accounting number that's getting booked into the financials.
This is us looking at our written production results.
And it's -- but it's exactly what Jay just said.
When we close the books at a given period of time we try to make our best assessment of what the production is going to be but there's also always movement in the accounts.
And the adjustments tend to be fairly consistent but they move around.
I don't know Bill any -- yes.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up.
And I appreciate that you think that the market's focus on this is too myopic but I guess relative to the number of 7.2% that you gave at Barclays versus 7.1% now.
Is it more just kind of the chatter of those adjustments that Jay mentioned? Or was there actually kind of a lower rate in that last month for the quarter? Well the Barclays number was a 2-month number.
At least it was as of whatever date that conference was.
This is obviously the full quarter.
What I don't know is if we had updated those 2-month numbers whether they would have reflected any change for midterm cancellations or endorsements.
So I honestly don't know and I agree with your assessment that you're looking at it too myopically.
I don't know the answer.
Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In the Business Insurance segment the underlying loss ratio not the combined ratio it looks to have incrementally deteriorated year-over-year.
I would have thought it would have improved given pricing continued to trend in the high single digits.
I know high or non-cat weather losses were cited.
So is that the main culprit? Or are loss cost inflation rates creeping higher as well? So this is Brian and then I'll let Jay Benet comment.
But no loss cost trends are not creeping.
They've remained really flat at right around 4%.
Obviously little pieces move up and down but the overall loss trend has been very very consistent.
The biggest driver in there is the non-cat weather.
Jay I don't know if you want to go through more of the detail but that's the biggest change that flows through that.
Yes.
No I would add only a little bit to what Brian said.
I mean if you're looking at quarter-to-quarter comparisons you're always going to see some variances associated with things like non-cat weather impacting the data which is why in Brian's comments he really provides the information as to what underlying is -- underlying the underlying loss ratio is taking place with regard to the margin expansion relative to earned pricing versus loss trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then lastly could you update us on the gap between the new money yields and the existing portfolio yield? And I ask because the fixed-income portfolio yield has actually been steady for 3 sequential quarters now.
Well the gap is -- there still is a gap between new money yields and...
By the way this is Bill Heyman speaking.
Oh hi.
Sorry yes.
And yields on securities which are maturing.
It's closing.
It depends on which asset class you're looking at corporates and municipals.
But in -- let's take long-term municipals.
The raw yield which is an after-tax yield of new money is still probably 0.4% lower than what is maturing.
Research Division</strong> Okay so the fixed-income portfolio stayed steady though in recent quarters.
Is that just due to some nuances in the portfolio? I think the -- I mean we analyze the change in the book yield of the portfolio to the basis point every quarter and the change in the first 9 months of this year was 11 basis points.
Now in terms of the raw returns from the portfolio that doesn't really amount to much.
Yes and this is Jay Benet.
Just -- let me just add a couple of points.
If you look in our -- in the Outlook section of the 10-Q we are projecting about a $25 million-per-quarter drag on earnings associated with the reinvestment of the portfolio -- pieces of the portfolio that are maturing at the lower rates.
And I think part of what you're seeing or not seeing is the impact of just rounding to the nearest tenth as opposed to going out further when you look at those yields.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the $5 billion share repurchase authorization if I think about for 2013 the company is essentially running at an annualized retained earnings less shareholder dividend pace of around $2.5 billion annually.
So based on that should we assume that that buyback could take place of around 2 years? Well we've been saying for the last several years Jay now that return of capital is ultimately going to be tied to earnings.
And so it really is a question of weather and catastrophe losses and all of the various elements.
You pick the earnings -- and by the way Jay always reminds me that we always need to take into account dollars to make pension contributions if necessary or to pay off maturing obligations that we might want to -- might not want to refinance...
Essentially to support the growth of the business.
Support the growth of the business.
So there's always an additional call.
But you figure the earnings divide that into 5 whatever the number is it's probably not an unreasonable assumption.
Include dividends when you do that by the way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then that $5 billion authorization given the magnitude of that potential buyback it appears that signals a strong degree of confidence in your overall reserve position? Our reserve position is always our best estimate of what our reserves should be and I think you can see how the reserves have been playing out over the last many years.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then any thoughts you'd like to provide on the proposed accounting changes from FASB on GAAP for insurance companies given that they could be substantial in terms of the -- and also somewhat adverse relative to how insurers present their financial positions? We'll always do what regulators ask us to do.
And however we're asked to report we'll report.
We don't have a view.
We follow directions.
Okay and if I can add a couple of things to that.
Certainly we are always very compliant.
This is a draft that's been issued.
And like other companies we are responding to the draft talking to the FASB about what we think is good about it and suggesting areas to be improved.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question in BI.
It looks like property grew the most this quarter.
It hasn't happened for a while in terms of year-over-year premium growth.
Just trying to understand.
Given that that doesn't appear where pricing is best is that a deliberate area of growth for you? Are you seeing exposure growth? Or is that just -- or is that new business? Just a little context on that would be great.
Yes.
So this is Brian.
So if you really get underneath what's driving the growth in premium it's very strong retention and it's pricing.
So we're not growing our risk count there anything dramatically.
And in fact our overall pricing in the property line our results throughout this year have been strong and actually a little bit ahead of what the total BI average is.
So retention is very strong pricing has been solid and we feel good about it so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the year-over-year has been a bit of a focus in BI in terms of the margin.
You cited non-cat weather there being a contributor.
It sounds like it went the other way in Homeowners.
But I guess the question is is the fourth quarter -- what's the setup for the fourth quarter? Just given that the sequential -- the comp averages improved sequentially in fourth quarter versus third quarter last year.
Is it going to be tough comps again because of non-cat weather in 4Q? Well let me go back and just clarify the non-cat weather story across the place.
So it was from a meteorological perspective a light weather quarter.
That came through very clearly in Personal lines.
In Business Insurance last year we had an adjustment that we put through in the third quarter to our current year prior quarter property loss pick last year in the third quarter and it was a light weather quarter in BI.
Remembering that Business Insurance is always going to have a little more volatility to the actual losses you could get from an event you can have large exposures in one year.
You have an event you don't get hit.
In the next year you have one.
So that's just to clarify what sounds like a difference in weather patterns between our segments.
The bigger story last -- was -- in BI was the last year number was so low.
The fourth quarter I think we're -- I don't know Jay.
We -- we're not going to get into projecting what we see.
Through -- broadly speaking the thing I would emphasize is the year-to-date we continue to see something like 2.5 3 points of margin expansion running through the underlying combined ratio and expect that for the full year we're going to be somewhere around 2.5 points of margin expansion.
So that's I think the -- what we're still looking for.
And then the results in the quarter will be what they are.
Particularly weather.
Yes.
that's right.
And our next version comes from Greg Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on the Quantum 2.0 initiative.
You mentioned it's being rolled out in the fourth quarter in 15 states.
Can you talk about the average price decline? I mean -- or have you filed yet? And can you talk about how that's going to impact pricing in those 15 states? Sure Greg.
This is Greg Toczydlowski.
We look at Quantum on a state-by-state rollout basis.
Brian referenced some of the expense reductions across the non-loss component of the business at the minus 12.
If you think of that across the country that's somewhere in the minus 10 to minus 13 range from a pricing perspective or the lower price of Quantum 2.0.
Of course that will vary at a very local territory level.
But in aggregate that's a good sense for you to understand what the pricing disparity will be.
Yes.
And specifically you asked have we filed.
We're in the process of doing that.
So as we roll out states obviously -- obviously we've filed in a lot of places.
And as we get the approvals we're rolling out.
And our plan is that by the end of June by the end of the second quarter next year we will essentially be fully rolled out which means that there will always be those few states where we have a kind of a unique regulatory environment and work with a different product.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very clear.
So just to come back so the average price decline for this product versus before is 10% -- so this is 10% cheaper to your clients then than what they were getting before is it? Nationwide by June that's what you're going to have on the shelf? That's correct Greg.
And again that's a generalization.
All states have variations but that's kind of the high-level math.
And Greg I'd make just 2 points.
First that is literally across the entire book.
So you will find we have prices -- we showed you a graph previously we have prices in 2.0 that are higher than 1.0 and we have prices in 2.0 that are considerably down more than 10%.
I would draw your attention back to last quarter the webcast where we gave you that...
The chart.
That spot diagram...
Yes.
That we have out there...
The Barclays presentation.
The Barclays presentation.
But that's -- so it's important to remember that it's a big divergence.
It's not 10% for every account.
Plus we really don't know how quickly the renewal book will move over to -- so this is -- it's new only but at -- available to agents for renewal business where they opt for it.
We just don't know yet how quickly that renewal book will roll over either so we're in a wait-and-see pattern there as well.
Research Division</strong> Understood understood.
And what are you doing on the Homeowners side? Will Quantum pick up Homeowners business at all? Does it focus on Homeowners? Or what will you be doing there? Well the Quantum product is purely an Auto product.
The majority of our business is account business though however.
So we believe we will absolutely see a lift in the Homeowners production side as we roll out a more competitive Auto product.
And I'd make the observation that the decline in policies in force in the Homeowners book is meaningfully tilted towards catastrophe-focused areas where losses have been more challenging in the context of a changing weather environment.
It's being driven by higher deductibles higher pricing but it's not -- meaning it's not uniquely a pricing issue in Homeowners.
It's also a catastrophe management dynamic that sits around it.
We were hopeful that it wouldn't have had as much decline as it has had but it is what it is and we're going to price for catastrophes appropriately and manage our book accordingly.
Our next question comes from Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
So just to follow up on the last question on Quantum 2.0.
If the pricing changes approximately 10% how should we think about sort of a commensurate impact on margins? Yes so this is Brian again and [indiscernible].
But we are targeting the same returns on this product that we do in our overall business.
So as we look at the expense actions we're taking and the underwriting and risk selection that we're refining on the product side we -- that'll be partly driven back to the consumer in lower prices and partly driven to ensuring appropriate margins.
We're looking at both -- accomplishing both objectives.
But the fundamental target returns on the business have not changed.
And what...
We may experience -- it's entirely possible that we may experience in the early days of Quantum 2.0 a return that is lower.
There is -- I don't like the term because it's often confused.
There is a new business penalty.
It's not a premium penalty.
We don't charge less for the product new than renewal but there is a loss dynamic that takes some time to sort out in the underwriting profile.
So it's very possible in the early days that the returns may not be at the level that we'd like them to be.
We fully anticipate that and we'll manage the book accordingly as we make adjustments.
But Brian's point about not -- about having it priced to be the same return over time is exactly right.
Okay that's helpful.
The only other question I have is I guess going back to Slide 10.
Has the source of new business changed? I guess what would be helpful is is it coming from issues at your competitors? Is it a function of the economy? Or is it new niches? Yes.
Yes.
Sorry Amit.
Just to clarify it when you're saying Slide 10 are you asking about the new business dollar amounts? Are you asking about...
.
Yes the source of the new business on Slide 10.
Has it changed over the past few quarters? Or has the mix changed? I guess that's what I'm asking.
Yes I would say the short answer to that is no.
There hasn't been any fundamental shifts in where we're getting our new business from and lines of business and industries et cetera so.
Over a longer period of time there has been some shift in lines.
But in the context of the last several quarters no.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the Quantum 2.0 product.
I believe you're rolling it out this quarter.
What are the indications right now you are getting from the agents on the new business side from that product? We don't -- it's just -- it -- we don't have any yet really.
It's just too early.
I mean literally we just started rolling out this past weekend.
Yes in 2 states.
So we're out like 3 days.
And so it's a handful of states so far.
And like we said it'll be 15 or so by the end of the quarter.
We will in the next coming weeks begin to get a better answer to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The second question was on the Select Accounts in that -- on Slide 11.
The new business dropped off a little bit there.
Just curious about the pushback you're getting from your clients because it seems that we might be running into headwinds in terms of the amount of rate increases you can get on that business.
So I'm just curious about your strategy in this line.
And so Select Accounts -- and I think we've mentioned this on previous calls or at least I think the last call actually.
Select was an area -- first of all we think of that business as the Express world of the really small accounts and then Plus Express being a little bit more than half of our portfolio.
And that's an area where going back a couple of years ago we felt the returns in that business were very challenged.
We were fairly aggressive in what we were doing from a pricing perspective.
We feel better about the returns in the Express world now and that is one where we are starting to shift our strategy to wanting to first and foremost retain more of that book.
And then we'll see where the new business appetite goes.
But...
I'd make just 2 other observations.
First retention in the line has been absolutely consistent.
So there's -- notwithstanding renewal rate change that's been in those -- in that high 6 area.
Retention has been absolutely solid.
And the difference between $97 million of new business and $89 million in the third quarter of this year versus third quarter of last those are pretty small numbers.
I -- there isn't anything that we've seen that would suggest any fundamental shift any real change going on in Select relative to the pricing environment.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On personal auto the nonrenewals compared -- or at least the -- policy counts down 12% from 1 year ago and you have 9% to 10% rate increases.
I would think the margin improvement would be better that you're weeding out the unprofitable drivers getting great increases on the newer drivers.
When do we have to wait for this to come through? Josh this is Brian.
The first thing I would say is we've talked a good bit over the last probably 1.5 years to 2 years now about loss trend in personal auto and the -- particularly the bodily injury severity side.
And that has been running at an elevated level the aggregate 5% loss trend we've talked about for the last couple of quarters.
So as we've earned in the rate increase the margin expansion hasn't been quite as dramatic as it has in other businesses.
So that would be the first point I'd make.
The other on the overall growth the retention has remained pretty solid and has actually picked up a little bit the last quarter.
And the real strategy here is the new product and having a more competitive product in the marketplace and as Greg went through the biggest lever in that is what we've done on the expense side.
Historically our loss ratio performance in this business is top quartile the expense ratio and that's all in with commission has been the challenge.
And so we think the new product will deal with that pretty effectively.
Research Division</strong> So when I think about the new product and the legacy drivers on the older iterations.
Where should we see expense ratio 1 year from today? Will it be higher or will it be lower than it is right now? Well expense ratio we're -- we fully expect will be lower.
So the expense actions that we took the $140 million that we're taking out of our operations is not product specific.
That's coming out of the business.
About $100 million of that $140 million I think was Auto and some of it is in the personal lines franchise so it will affect the other products as well.
I guess I'd look at 2 other things.
First even 1 year from now the percentage that Quantum 2.0 makes up of our total book is still going to be a relatively small percentage.
And so relative to the commission component there will still be a meaningful portion of Quantum 1.0 that will still be on the books.
I don't know if the expense ratio will be lower.
I don't know what's going to happen to premiums.
I don't know how effective the product is in restoring new business.
We know what we've done in terms of expenses.
That we've done and we can be very clear and very certain about that.
What happens in the marketplace and what percentage Quantum 2.0 makes of the whole book that's yet to be determined.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask this maybe in a more specific way that it can be answered but if you had the Quantum 2.0 rate decreases in effect now do you have any sense as to what the year-over-year PIF change would have been? No.
I can tell you what we did in looking at its pricing structure was to do a fair amount of back testing.
And we went back with the product and we went back with the pricing and we went back with the sales to determine at least to be able to have a perspective on competitive profile.
Now we feel pretty good about that.
The back testing results were encouraging.
But that doesn't take into account competitive reaction or what other companies will do or not do.
So we don't know.
I can tell you that the back testing caused us to be encouraged but we only control what we control.
And so I -- we don't know what the PIF would be if we had rolled it out.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I completely understand.
In the 10-Q you talk about favorable development even on very recent years for general liability because in part of the judicial environment.
Can you talk a little bit about how you can tell in the near term whether that's actual benign emergence as opposed to just timing issue? Yes this is Jay Benet.
When you look at longer-tail lines you're looking at what's taking place in the current environment.
But when we think about the current environment that's not a snapshot of the last 3 months.
That's a snapshot of a longer period of time.
So if you see some favorable development in a long-tail line that's taking place and -- relative to recent years what we're really talking about is going back a few years looking at the favorable judicial environment in this particular case that you're asking about and then saying okay now that we know that from the past what does that mean rolling forward into the loss picks that we had for the more current period? So it's not a look at okay what was the expectation for loss in the 2012 accident year what are the losses there.
It's a more fulsome look over periods that preceded that as to what does that mean for our loss pick for 2012.
I hope that answers your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
Our next question comes from Cliff Gallant of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I had another question on Quantum 2.0.
You said that you were cutting your commissions I believe 2 points.
I'm just curious how does the agent take that? Are they excited about the reduced price? So they get volume? And also I'm curious when you think about your total relationship with your agents how important is that 2-point cut on just that -- on just the Auto product? Yes so obviously it's a question we've thought about a lot.
I'd start with I think broadly we.
And by we I mean the industry here.
We don't give our agents enough credit and that first and foremost they fully appreciate the need to have a competitive product in the marketplace.
And they are very aware of what's gone on in the private passenger consumer auto business and they know they need more competitive alternatives.
I'd also emphasize that we really built this product with lots of agent input.
And hopefully we've also been able to demonstrate to the agents that we are really committed to the independent agent channel.
And this really gets to your last point of when agents look at us and what we do across the spectrum of our businesses.
I think they appreciate that we are at the forefront of underwriters that are working aggressively to make that channel successful.
So I think all of those things are very positive.
With that said every agent all things being equal would rather have higher commission than lower commission.
But we feel really good about the dialogue we've had with them and the engagement and we will see what the results are as they roll out.
And I'd make the observation that the comparative rating process it's obvious to us and we've shared that data with you is trumping everything that competitive price at the point of sale from a well-respected company and a quality brand name matters a lot more than whether commission is 1 point or 2 higher or 1 point or 2 lower.
There are lower-paying commission companies that have grown value grown volumes significantly and there are higher paying that have not.
It's not -- it's a factor but at least as we assess the marketplace it certainly isn't the most meaningful factor.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Charles Sebaski of BMO.
Following up on the Quantum 2.0 and the direct market channel.
Given this level of an expense cut is it too -- is this product going to be available in the direct-to-consumer? And do you expect that to grow that channel? Yes and we sure hope so.
Okay.
It's certainly -- we -- one of the things that we -- and we've talked about this in the last couple of calls.
We've been doing price testing in a couple of states trying to determine elasticity of demand in a more granular way.
And it became apparent to us that we needed a lower-priced product not only to be more successful in a comparative rating agent-driven world but also in the direct-to-consumer world.
This will make a meaningful difference.
I don't know what happens from the competitive reaction but this will make a difference in the attractiveness of the product in the direct channel.
Okay.
The -- a question on pricing and the competitive marketplace on Management Liability.
There seems to be increased focus from some of your competitors.
I'm just wondering if you have any color on what you see going on there with pricing and just competition in general.
Sure.
It's Alan Schnitzer.
There's always competition in these markets.
And you really can't look at this as one broad Management Liability market.
There are different geographies there are different products there are different lines different segments and each of them has their own dynamics.
So as we've been approaching the market we price as granularly here as we do in the other lines that we talk a lot about seeking to get rate on those lines and those accounts where we need it.
And we've been successful doing that and you see the RPC in the quarter having been the result of that.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to continue with some comment -- questions around Quantum.
And one of the -- I think in one of your presentations you guys provided a scatter plot a sort of new versus old price.
I'm wondering if you could talk to us generically about the sort of the lift charts you've done where you compare loss ratios for -- against the price changes you're taking much like the I think the slides you guys used a bunch of times now with your commercial lines of business as people how think -- people think about personal a lot of changes.
And I'm trying to just get a better sense of whether Quantum 2.0 is a big deal from the pricing segmentation perspective or whether it's really more about sort of the repackaging the cost cutting and lower commissions into just a new business offering that you can use to drive volume.
This is Gregory Toczydlowski again.
Anytime we bring a new product out we constantly learn from the prior one.
We take that experience and we get a little more sophisticated and a little more segmented.
So Quantum 2.0 will clearly have additional segmentation in addition to some product features that you talked about.
But really when we look at those scattergrams that really is our understanding of what loss experience is in the marketplace of our quote business and our in-force business.
And then we bring the new product out where there will be as Jay said ups and downs across various customers but it is because of that new segmentation.
And at the Barclays conference we actually gave a couple of examples of specific underwriting changes that were incorporated into 2.0 as a result of what we had learned in 1.0 areas in which we had been too stringent where we had set an underwriting standard that not only wasn't competitive but even when we sold the product turned out not to make a difference in the loss performance.
So there's some of that as well in this.
It's not just a lower price cranked into a new product.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
A broader question I'd love to ask is you guys very helpfully gave us guidance on pricing if I can call it that sort of your outlook in the Q which I think I interpret -- can interpret as saying that you're going to continue -- you're going to do what you're going to do.
And I mean the market will do what it does but that you're going to continue to raise price for the next -- through the end of the year and well into '14.
You guys actually have to plan the business many months ahead rate revisions product filings.
You're probably doing an annual budgeting process right now.
What guidance are you actually giving your staff? And what are you actually planning for in 2014? Well first I'd disagree that we give guidance.
We're giving you our outlook.
We're required to give one.
We do the best we can.
We always say that we're going to attempt to do what we're going to attempt to do.
We don't know what anyone else will do and therefore I don't know whether it'll succeed in the marketplace.
We've said that over and over.
And also in the 10-Q we really speak to renewal premium change in the aggregate not just rate but we talk about renewal premium change.
What -- our instructions to the field organization in Business Insurance are no different today than they were 1 month ago or 2 months ago or 3 months ago.
It's account by account; it's drive business from the right side of the segmentation to the left meaning from the poor-performing categories to the best-performing categories; as we move left focus more on retention and less on rate although it's great if we can get rate in excess of loss trend even in our best-performing business; and at the right side if and we've shown you this information before if retention is comparatively low that's just fine.
You're talking about components of the business that are not building value but taking value.
And our instructions to them are no different.
We don't give them a target.
Our experience has been over a long period of time that if you give a field force a target you will get it but you will not get it in a way that's designed to actually produce improved profitability.
You'll get the rate that you asked for on the poorest accounts.
You will lose the accounts that are best performing in the minimum rate thresholds.
So we give them analytical data.
We give them lots of information.
And we are very return driven.
They try and improve the returns on the accounts and then we leave it to the underwriters to execute.
And that is the way we run the business.
And this will be the last question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
First you mentioned in the Q that the G&amp;A expenses in the Business Insurance benefited from reduced assessments.
I wonder if you can just quantify that for us? Hold on a minute.
It's not a number we have off the top of our heads.
You want to go to your next one while we look for that one? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes.
I guess the second one I'm curious when you closed the Dominion acquisition do you plan on implementing the kind of Quantum 2.0-type pricing there as well? And in addition to that what about -- with respect to kind of commission rates and stuff.
Are you going to apply that to the Dominion personal auto book? Because I know they got a pretty big Ontario auto book.
And how that's going to be impacted by the 15% rate reduction that Ontario is taking? It's Alan Schnitzer.
We will certainly be applying all of our knowhow in technology and thought process from our U.S.
experience into Canada.
Whether that exact product with those specific characteristics translates or not will be a question for us but we will certainly have all of our resources and knowhow martialed to bring to bear to that product.
Yes the commission the TL&amp;F variance that you're looking at is about 12 pretax.
So it's relatively modest.
But when you look at a quarter-over-quarter comparison it does come into play.
Okay that concludes today's call.
Thank you all for joining us.
And as always Andrew Hersom and myself are available for any additional follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded January 21 2014.
At this time I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may now begin.
Thank you Lina.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also available for the question-and-answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it for questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I'd like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabby.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we're very pleased to report a terrific fourth quarter to conclude a very impressive 2013.
We posted full year operating income of $3.6 billion coming from dramatic improvements in our underlying underwriting margins over the past 2 years continued contributions from prior year reserve development as well as more modest level of catastrophe losses than we've experienced in recent years.
These operating results combined with our strategy of returning excess capital to shareholders led to record earnings per diluted share of $9.46 and an operating return on equity of 15.5%.
For the fourth quarter we generated $981 million in operating income producing operating earnings per share -- per diluted share of $2.68 and an operating return on equity of nearly 17%.
I don't think we could be more pleased than we are with these results particularly given the challenges that our industry has been facing over the last several years including historically low interest rates and more volatile weather patterns.
These 1-year results should not be viewed in isolation but rather as part of the journey we've been on since 2010 when we articulated a clear strategy of thoughtfully and appropriately increasing the profitability for our products particularly for those that were not meeting profitability thresholds.
While improved rate terms and conditions were our tactics our strategy was is and will remain all about producing superior returns.
The returns of our products had deteriorated over a number of years from declining pricing and the return deterioration was exacerbated after the financial crisis when interest rates fell to historic lows.
In addition it was apparent that weather patterns at least in recent periods had become more volatile.
With the philosophy of not reaching for yield in our investment portfolio beyond where the risk return balance is appropriate our strategy was to improve the price and where appropriate the terms and conditions of products that we sell so as to improve the returns on an account-by-account or class-by-class basis with the additional goal of not disrupting our agent's business or the relationship with our insureds.
The results since then have been nothing short of remarkable.
As Slide #4 indicates underlying underwriting gain in 2013 was almost triple the amount it was in 2011 and demonstrates that we have way more than offset the decline in net investment income resulting from lower investment rates.
Second the impact on product returns which is what drives us has been impressive.
Slide #5 in the webcast shows a summary analysis of our expected economic product returns and demonstrates that the impact on these returns has been consequential.
On the slide we show our analysis of expected economic product returns on a written business for 2 periods the outlook for Q1 2013 as of that time and the outlook for Q1 2014.
The numbers noted in red indicate the percentage of our aggregate premium from products where the expected economic return on capital allocated to those products is less than 10%.
The numbers in black indicate the percentage of our aggregate premiums where expected product returns are in the range of 10% to 20%.
And the numbers in blue indicate the percentage of our premiums where expected product returns exceed 20%.
The progress we believe is quite remarkable.
I should note that this analysis does not directly correspond to a GAAP return and I encourage you to read the important explanatory notes on Slide #6.
The significance of this analysis is that the very granular data we review played an important part of our pricing strategy and tactics and it is a critical element of our senior management analysis and review.
We all spent a lot of time with it and it is one of the most important tools.
We have been on an analytical journey for a long time and have worked diligently on developing this analysis and it allows us to be quite surgical in our marketplace strategy.
The conclusion to be drawn from the summary analysis is that we've made tremendous progress in driving our returns closer to our long-term targets.
However closer to is not good enough.
For those who will consider that this analysis suggests we are finished trying to improve returns that is just categorically wrong.
We will continue to take pricing actions on an account-by-account or class-by-class basis for those accounts or classes of business that continue to be in the poorer performing segments of our portfolio.
While after 3 years of pricing actions considerably more of the portfolio has moved from poorer performing to better performing classes there is still enough business in the poorer performing classes so that successful pricing actions should continue to result in improved returns.
Even for our better performing accounts we will see great -- equal to or greater than loss trend when appropriate.
We remain optimistic that we will be able to continue to execute this strategy successfully.
Brian will speak more about rate and will provide some perspective on looking at the data on a segmented basis.
And while we can't predict the future the recent data as well as the most recent anecdotal observations from the field give us confidence that we will be able to continue to execute successfully.
We have also been helped in pursuing higher returns by somewhat increased interest rates and Jay Benet will speak more to that.
While we are not explicitly contemplating further meaningful increases in the near-term in interest rates that is we do believe that interest rates will eventually rise from here and will provide further lift to returns.
We have commented before that we believe that many industry observers are putting inappropriate significance on the absolute number of rate gain particularly the headline number that is so often quoted.
While the number is interesting it is not nearly as revealing as many believe as the rate and retention in a much more granular basis holds the real key to success.
It's also worth noting again that we are return-focused and as long as our risk profile is appropriate whether in underwriting risk selection or investment selection we are agnostic about where product returns come from.
Our goal remains a simple one top-tier profitability and if we generate more capital than is necessary to support our business returning that capital to our shareholders so as to right size our capital base.
To that point since we started buying back our shares in the middle of 2006 we have returned almost $27 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends an amount which is now approaching the market capitalization of the company when we embarked on our active capital management program.
The strategy has worked elegantly by producing superior returns and we remain committed to it.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
By any measure our fourth quarter results: record net income per diluted share of $2.70 record operating income per diluted share of $2.68 operating ROE of 16.8% and a GAAP combined ratio of 87.7% were very strong.
As has been the case all year these strong results were built upon very solid investment and underwriting performance.
Within the investment world the recent rise in interest rates has lessened the headwinds that we and our industry have been facing due to historically low interest rates.
Slide 10 shows how average after-tax yields have increased for the long-term fixed income securities that we actually purchased during each quarter of 2013.
For taxable that increase was approximately 45 basis points from the fourth quarter of last year while for tax-exempt the increase was 105 basis points.
As we've done periodically we've included in the appendix to this webcast the schedule showing our current expectations for maturities and calls of our long-term fixed income investments projected over the next 3 years along with the expected impact on net investment income if reinvestment rates generally remain where they are today.
All things being equal while we still expect that fixed income net investment income will decrease in the next 3 years that decrease will be smaller than what we previously expected.
Turning to underwriting.
We continue to earn rate increase in excess of loss trends in each of our business segments.
This drove 130 basis point improvement in our underlying combined ratio in BI as compared to the prior-year quarter although in PI and in FPII the benefits from earned rate increases exceeding loss cost trends were more than offset by normal quarterly fluctuations in non-cat weather fire-related losses and what we define as large loss activity.
Pre-tax cat losses were $53 million in the quarter down dramatically from last year's fourth quarter which included Storm Sandy and pre-tax net favorable prior year reserve development remains strong at $259 million.
As has been the case throughout the year each of our business segments contributed to the favorable reserve development which was driven by BI's general liability product line for accident years 2006 through 2012 FPII's Surety business for accident years 2006 through 2010 and by PI's Homeowners &amp; Other business for both cat losses related to accident year 2012 and liability losses for accident years 2009 through 2012.
As I've done in the past I'd also like to share with you a preliminary view of what our combined 2013 Schedule P is expected to look like when it is filed on May 1.
On a combined product basis all accident years other than accident year 2012 developed favorably and the unfavorable development for 2012 is truly de minimis.
Looking at the data on a product line rather than on an accident year basis our major product lines developed favorably across all accident years except for relatively small unfavorable development in Auto liability and CMP.
Commercial and Personal Auto liability developed unfavorably by a little over $30 million and $20 million pre-tax respectively each having a reserve base of approximately $2 billion driven mostly by the 2012 accident year while CMP developed unfavorably by about $60 million pre-tax on a reserve base of approximately $3 billion and that was spread out over several recent accident years.
Of note workers' comp developed favorably by approximately $85 million pre-tax on a reserve base of approximately $14 billion even after the $42 million pre-tax charge precipitated by legislation in New York related to the New York Fund for reopened cases for workers' comp that we disclosed in the first quarter and some very minor strengthening of about $60 million pre-tax for a few recent accident years.
We continue to generate capital well in excess of what is needed to support our business and consistent with our strategy we've continued to return very significant amounts of capital to our shareholders.
Operating cash flows were in excess of $900 million this quarter bringing total operating cash flows to over $3.8 billion for the year.
We ended the quarter with holding company liquidity of almost $1.6 billion after returning almost $1.2 billion of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter through dividends of $182 million and common share repurchases of $1 billion.
And for the full year we returned over $3.1 billion of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $734 million and common share repurchases of $2.4 billion.
All of our capital ratios remained at or better than their target levels.
Our debt-to-total cap ratio of 21.3 was well within its target range during the quarter.
Book value per share increased 3% and adjusted book value per share which excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses increased 4%.
For the full year book value per share increased 4% and adjusted book value per share increased 12%.
The difference between unadjusted and adjusted growth rates was driven by the impact that the recent rise in interest rates have on net unrealized investment gains.
Those net unrealized investment gains were approximately $1.3 billion after-tax at the end of the year as compared to $3.1 billion at the beginning of the year.
So with that Brian is now going to provide some further insight into our operating results.
Thanks Jay.
I'll begin with Business Insurance which had a very strong fourth quarter with operating income of $634 million and a combined ratio of 88.9.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats and prior year development was 91.5 for the quarter an improvement of more than 1 point year-over-year and 92.2 for the full year an improvement of about 2.5 points over full year 2012.
As always there were a lot of moving pieces in the combined ratios.
In 2013 large losses were slightly higher expense items were a net positive and mix changes were a net negative.
Excluding these items the pure margin expansion that is the impact of rate increases in excess of loss trend was 2.5 points in the quarter and 2.7 points for the full year.
Turning to the top line we posted record-high net written premium volume for the full year of $12.2 billion.
Looking at the production trends underlying the premium volume on Page 13 retention was up slightly from recent periods at 80% while renewal premium change was in line with recent periods at about 8%.
The 8% included pure rate increases of about 6% down about 1 point from the last few quarters.
The rate increases continue to be broad-based and were led by Commercial Auto.
New business volume in the quarter was $435 million and for the full year new business was over $1.8 billion.
Loss trend continued to run at about 4% for this segment so on a written basis rate gains continued to be significantly above our current view of loss trend.
The aggregate production results were strong but as Jay emphasized in his opening our focus has always been on returns.
And to understand the impact of rate and retention on returns you have to examine the detail behind how we got to the aggregate results.
We've talked before about how we measure our business returns on a very granular basis.
By business by line by territory in smaller accounts by class and in middle and large accounts down to the individual account level.
Looking at this data for full year 2013 and the fourth quarter we're very pleased with our execution.
Specifically retention in our better performing business was very strong with reasonable rate increases.
But our real opportunity is to get significant improvement on our poorer performing accounts.
For example think of the below 10% ROE section on the chart Jay showed on Page 5.
Obviously we're not going to share with the public the full granular detail at all the levels that we manage the business.
But we did want to give some insight into our performance specifically for those poorer performing business.
Slide 17 shows the renewal rate change over the last 8 quarters for the poorer performing segmentation bands in our middle-market business about 20% of our total middle-market premium.
And middle-market here includes commercial accounts construction technology and our public sector business.
Intentionally we didn't give you specific rate numbers but they're all well into the double digits.
So you can see clearly from this slide that over the last 2 years we've been able to consistently get meaningful rate increases on the portfolio for poorer performing accounts.
Although the rate changes move slightly quarter to quarter in our view there doesn't appear to be a clear trend which would signal any real movement in the marketplace.
For example we believe that the fourth quarter 2013 decline in rate and increase in retention is more a function of our execution than a change in the marketplace.
And accordingly we see an opportunity to improve pricing in this book of business in the coming quarters.
So the main thing that this data tells us is that at least through the end of 2013 for the lower returning businesses in our portfolio our ability to take appropriate pricing and underwriting actions to improve performance in those accounts has not changed significantly in the last 2 years.
Not all the segmentation bands have this level of consistency in rate change.
But in each band pricing gains continued to exceed the expected increase in loss cost and we continue to make progress in the accounts with the greatest opportunity to improve returns.
The data underneath this graph along with the other granular analytics we use to manage the business gives us confidence that throughout 2013 our underwriters continue to execute well on our strategy making the right targeted decisions class by class account by account.
As we continue to execute on our strategy of improving returns if we are successful the aggregate headline rate will come down over time.
The key for us however is not the headline number but instead will always be why our rate and retention numbers are changing regardless of direction and whether these changes are consistent with our goal of generating mid-teens return on equity over time.
Turning to our Financial Professional and International business.
Operating income of $171 million for the quarter was up 31% over the prior-year quarter.
This increase was driven by a lower level of cat activity in the current quarter as well as higher levels of favorable prior year reserve development.
The underlying GAAP combined ratio of 94.7 deteriorated 3.2 points over the prior-year quarter due to a higher underlying loss ratio reflecting a higher level of large losses and non-cat weather-related losses for international as well as the Dominion acquisition partially offset by earned rate increases that exceeded loss cost trends.
The increase in the underlying loss ratio was partially offset by a lower expense ratio reflecting the inclusion of the Dominion.
Net written premiums were up 29% in the fourth quarter of 2013 driven primarily by the inclusion of the Dominion for 2 months.
Management liability premium increased as a result of our decision to discontinue the excess of loss reinsurance treaty for this business.
In our Personal Insurance business operating income was $237 million for the quarter and $838 million for the full year an almost fourfold increase over full year 2012.
A very strong result driven in part by lower catastrophe losses but also reflective of improvement in our underlying Auto and Homeowner results.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 88.8 up about 2 points over 2012 due to unusually favorable fire and non-cat weather losses in 2012.
On a full year basis the underlying combined ratio of 88.3 improved 2.5 points over 2012 due to pure margin expansion.
Looking specifically at Auto production retention was strong at 81% renewal premium change was 7% and new business volume was up versus recent periods while net written premium was down year-over-year.
The increase in new business volume was primarily the result of the rollout of our new product Quantum 2.0.
By the end of 2013 we had launched the product in 18 states and while we are still in the early days of the rollout we are pleased with our execution so far.
To date in these states we are achieving the competitive position that we had modeled both broadly in the marketplace and specifically in the comparative raters.
In addition in these states our agents have embraced the benefits of the new cost structure and product features.
Turning to Auto profitability.
The underlying combined ratio was 102.2 for the quarter an improvement of 3.5 points and 97.6 for the full year an improvement of 1.6 points.
Earned rate in excess of loss trend contributed about 2 points of improvement for the quarter and about 2.5 points for the full year.
Our current view of Auto loss cost trend is about 4% mix adjusted frequency continued to be benign while severity trend remains stable at a slightly elevated level.
Specifically bodily injury severity trend this quarter remained in line with what we've seen over the past few quarters.
Turning to Homeowners.
Production was strong in the quarter with renewal premium change of 10% while retention ticked up to 84% and new business volume was up from the prior-year quarter.
From a profitability perspective our full year Agency Homeowners combined ratio was 77% both on a reported and underlying basis.
This outstanding result reflects the long-term strength of this franchise and the impact of the rate and underwriting actions we have taken in the marketplace over the last 2 years.
We feel very good about our Homeowners results and the marketplace position of this business.
With that let me turn it over to Gabby.
Lina we will now like to open up for question-and-answer.
[Operator Instructions] Lina? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I have one on investment income.
It ran higher in our model even counting the real estate and private equity partnerships and you've made an illustration of kind of higher investment yield you've been getting.
So I guess the question is were there any other one-timers in the net investment income line this quarter like prepayments et cetera or was this a reflection of what the kind of underlying higher rate environment is helping with? It's Bill Heyman.
There were no one-timers in the fixed income portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And where are you seeing -- I guess where is the sweet spot of where you are investing now I guess from a rating and new money yield perspective? I think probably the municipal market.
If you look at the differential spreads between book yields expiring and new money it's closest in municipal.
In fact for a time in the fourth quarter we were investing even yield with what was expiring that's fallen off a bit.
Generalizing in order of attractiveness municipals corporates mortgages.
Research Division</strong> And the quick follow-up there is that -- was that attractiveness in the muni market a function of people's expectations of a potential Puerto Rican sovereign default and is that something that's affecting how you look at the market and do you guys have exposure there? Well in order it's not really affecting how we look at the market.
As far as our exposure I could go through it in some detail.
I wouldn't say it's material.
We haven't purchased a Puerto Rican obligation in 12 years and as a legacy portfolio most is short-term insured or both.
But I think Puerto Rico probably did affect the market as a whole.
And frankly speaking selfishly anything that cheapens the market is good news for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A question on the capital management outlook for 2014.
If I do the quick math on 2013 add up dividends share repurchase and then I guess M&amp;A funded with cash it equals about 105% of operating earnings.
Should we think about that payout ratio level continuing in 2014 or maybe we should expect a slowdown I see that exposure growth does seem to be picking up a little bit? This is Jay Benet.
I think in terms of looking forward as it relates to capital management the absolute level of capital that's needed to fund growth in the business is relatively small.
So what we've said in the past is to look at operating earnings as a rough base as to what might be available for capital management activities like share repurchases subject to what needs to take place with regard to as we just said funding the growth of the business possibly making a contribution to the pension plan.
Although I will say our pension plan at the end of the year was overfunded at this point in time.
So that doesn't require in our view much in a way of funding next year.
But it's always subject to all the things that might take place in terms of how the world will change next year.
But operating earnings would be the base to look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And lastly a follow-up.
So higher levels of non-cat large and non-cat weather losses appear to have materially impacted 2 of the main segments.
I know this is tough to do but can you help us think about the dynamics like for example were the losses a couple of points above historical levels or were they just much higher than prior levels which were very benign? So Mike this is Brian.
For starters in PI which I think had the biggest swing the real driver there was how low the fourth quarter was in non-cat weather in 2012.
And so this year was more consistent with kind of a normal run rate level of a non-cat weather.
In BI it was relatively consistent.
And in FPII Alan? Mike it's Alan Schnitzer.
In FPII the small weather and the large losses compared to a very favorable result in the prior year.
So that's really driving the difference.
And our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital U.S.A.
My first question relates to the new slide Slide #5 and again this is extremely helpful the Slide 5 and Slide 17.
What I was wondering is using that Slide 5 as a backdrop could you sort of help us understand what might be the range of earned rates in those different buckets? What might be the range of earned rates in those buckets? Yes -- no I understand.
I'm trying to -- I wouldn't know how to answer that actually because it's aggregated by product by business.
This is Gabby.
That is -- those are returns on capital so obviously it's underlying margin and the investment component on those cash flows.
What I was trying to understand is...
This is Jay Benet.
It is weighted by the premium volumes associated with each one of the businesses.
So I think it's a proxy.
You could probably look at those weightings as rough justice approximately what the earned premiums are.
But keep in mind what Jay said earlier this is an economic product yield going forward what the returns are going to look like.
This is not a GAAP yield.
That's why we're having trouble answering your question.
So let me as a proxy you can kind of divide the earned premium.
Amit this is Brian.
Let me go back I think -- go back to my comments in the webcast.
And you can kind of translate the ROE slide roughly into the poorer performing businesses obviously the bottom of the ROE chart and vice versa.
And as I said for the poorer performing accounts obviously we've got some that are still well into the 20s but think solid double-digit rate increases.
Now I'm talking written and you mentioned earned.
So I'd have to think through how everything's get earned in.
And although there over the last couple of years there hasn't been a great volatility.
In the better performing businesses as I've said in the comments we're still getting rate increases on a written basis that exceed our loss cost growth.
So you can kind of approximate what that would be about the 4 percentage 3 percentage range.
But we -- and then there are other things in between.
I think this will be our last comment on it because it's an unusual question.
The analysis is our best estimate of the economic capital returns of the products being sold I'll say today but think about it over the next quarter.
And so there really isn't much of a rate assumption in terms of change in written rate.
It is largely an earned rate embedded in what has already been written and will be earned in the quarter.
But it's looking at the returns on a fully discounted basis.
And so we're discounting that projected investment income.
It is an economic return concept based on allocated capital.
But it is as of today as of the next 3 months that's why we say for the quarter.
No actually that color is extremely helpful.
But the only other question I have is that of a quick follow-up on the opening comments regarding the modest adverse development in Workers' Compensation.
I'm trying to sort of reconcile the $85 million modest development with the growth in that line if I look on -- at page the level of the supplement and then the loss cost trends can be -- can you sort of talk about how do you think about the returns in Workers' Compensation line? And maybe address that development a bit more? What -- this is Jay Benet.
Let me talk about the development for a second.
First of all I do want to correct one thing.
Worker's Comp developed favorably this year.
It didn't develop unfavorably.
What you heard us talk about before is that we have a very very granular by-business line approach to calculating and evaluating our reserves.
So when one of our business units -- and these can be very relatively small business units says they're seeing a trend and maybe the trend is they have a few losses that went tabular that were more than what they expect and therefore they feel they should be strengthening their reserves in that business line.
That will bubble up through the reserves setting process so I can't stress enough that when we're talking about a modest increase it's against a reserve base or -- I'm sorry a premium base of $3.5 billion in any given year.
So I think it's more a function of our businesses looking at things that are taking place not putting news in a drawer hoping that it goes away but just reacting to whatever they currently see.
It's not an indication that if you have a negative development in 1 quarter you're going to get more development of a negative type in the next quarter.
It is just the normal variations that we see going forward and the quarterly reserve settling process.
And as I've said overall Worker's Comp.
developed favorably.
And we can see the same thing in all of our lines and in same kind of variation.
So just -- and so I'll give you a couple of comments this is Brian on the -- from a business perspective how we're feeling about comp.
And first of all I'd say if you're looking at net written premium the growth in net written premium is because of pricing primarily rate.
So that's been driving the growth there not necessarily account growth.
I'd also say we understand comps very well.
We understand this -- its challenges and its volatility.
For the last 2-plus years it's gotten the strongest rate increases across our portfolio.
And I think we've got real competitive advantages there.
So it's a state-by-state industry class-by-class gain and there are clearly some states and some classes that still need rate improvement but in the aggregate we feel very good about the returns.
I am -- Hi it's jay Fishman.
I misspoke on a comment about that Slide 5.
Let me just correct it.
I -- I'm told I said it's earned rate.
It's not.
That's a written rate analysis.
It's the price the rate at which the product is being written today.
And so again just to correct the record on that.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I do have a question on Dominion.
I don't know if it could be possible to know kind of what the underlying was for Dominion in the fourth quarter I mean what FP&amp;II would've looked like x that.
And if you could just talk about the rate -- the actions that you're taking in that book and whether there are any constraints from a regulatory or other perspective that could impact your ability or will -- that will allow you to push for rates that you need to improve that business? Sure.
It's Alan Schnitzer.
Let me try to take that.
In the quarter actually the Dominion was all in neutral.
It was adverse to the loss ratio but favorable to the expense ratio so that sort of netted out.
But that was really the result of a couple of I'll say unusual things related to the transaction and just as an example purchase accounting.
So I think the way to think about that going forward is for next year we expect the Dominion to have about a 2-point adverse impact on the overall FP&amp;II combined ratio.
Now I'll also say that we expect that to be offset by some other things going on in the segment so the way to think about the segment for next year is for 2013 we had an underlying combined of about 92 and we're expecting that to be broadly consistent in 2014 so just to put the Dominion in perspective.
Certainly there are -- we're harder at work on that business and trying to bring all the Travelers sophistication and know-how and working with our FP&amp;II and BI colleagues here in our U.S.
based business to try to bring all the Travelers benefits to that business.
When you talk about regulatory constraints you're probably referring to Ontario Auto.
That's a fluid situation and obviously the regulators in Ontario were looking for some significant rate cuts.
But we're also hopeful that that will be combined with some commensurate reductions in loss cost.
So it remains to be seen what the impact would be on the overall margins.
But we are quite confident that even though we'll have that 2-point impact in 2014 that all the work that we will bring to that book over time will improve that result and clearly we'll evaluate that transaction as it impacts our ROEs for our international business over time and we remain as optimistic about that today as we did when we announced the transaction.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then I guess on that front I mean did you expect -- anything we can glean from what you expect for on a top line perspective in terms of how much of the book you expect to keep versus part of the business that may go as a result of the rate gain or the rate action that you take? It's right.
I understand the question.
I think given the size of the transaction and its significance to the segment in the overall business we're not going to -- we're going to stay away from that level of detail.
But I'll try to give you the combined ratio impacts to help you with the modeling as you think about it for next year but I think what we're trying to stay away from that level of detail on that side of business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 1 if I could on the -- on BI.
I know that non-cat weather has created some noise in terms of the evaluating the year-over-years over the last couple of quarters.
How should we think about the starting point for margins next year when we're comparing to this year either fourth quarter or for the full year as we think about the rate actions on a written basis earnings through? So first of all I'd -- you meant Business Insurance there right? Research Division</strong> Business -- I'm sorry Business Insurance.
Yes.
I think well because in Business Insurance there really wasn't much of an impact of non-cat weather.
Last couple of years were very comfortable.
It wasn't exactly the same number but around it.
There wasn't -- when you look at the full year 2013 in Business Insurance there was a little bit of movement in large losses and mix change.
But nothing really material.
So that's probably a pretty decent benchmark of run rate combined ratio or loss ratio.
And then you can see our written rate numbers and how they're going to earn in overtime.
So I think you can -- as we said loss trends holding at about 4%.
So I think you can kind of do that arithmetic.
There isn't a lot of unusual stuff that's really distorting that number this quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> So the first question was just a clarification on the Dominion acquisition.
I believe it was mentioned that the acquisition would have a 2-point negative impact on '14 combined ratio.
But I still thought that you said that the combined ratio will be flat '14 versus '13? Yes.
That's right.
And that's because while the Dominion transaction on itself has about a 2-point adverse impact there will be other things that we expect to offset that.
For example a change in the reinsurance program in our management liability business and as earned rate continues -- as written rate from that prior year and this year continues to earn in at a higher level than loss cost so that margin improvement together with the reinsurance program on a segment basis we're talking about should be about -- on an underlying basis x cats and PYD.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
That's helpful.
Okay.
And then just looking at the Business Insurance segment.
I'm looking at it for this quarter -- that's the fourth quarter.
I'm looking at it on an accident year loss ratio x cats.
It seems that that number was relatively flat at about 61.2% this quarter versus the year ago quarter.
Just curious given the rate increases I would have expected a 3-point improvement year-over-year.
Yes.
So in the quarter there were some moving pieces and there's always a little bit of weather and a little bit of large losses and a little bit of mix and are you talking this loss ratio so expenses aren't impacting it.
We saw about a 2.5 point when we net through all of that stuff the -- what we think of is kind of pure margin the rate x earned rate x net to the loss cost trend was about 2.5 points in the quarter down a little bit it was about 2.7 points in the full year.
Yes.
One of the other things that's always going to impact the year-over-year quarter-over-quarter look at the loss ratios in particular would be mix changes in the business which -- what products are of higher percentage 1 year versus the next how much loss sensitive business there is relative to guaranteed cost so I mean that's also impacting some of the quarterly variations that you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one last question on pricing.
I just wanted to get a clarification that you mentioned that the slowdown in rate is not because of market conditions but more the actions that Travelers is taking and more of your businesses adequately priced.
I just want to get a clarification on that? So several comments there.
I mean clearly in the poor performing business we feel very good that our ability to get price improvements terms and conditions whatever we need to approve the account is pretty consistent with where it has been in the last couple of years.
So there we don't see a lot of -- a lot of market movement.
And this Jay.
To the point that Brian made in his comments what you'll see in the fourth quarter on that graph is a slight deterioration in rate and an increase in retention in those poor performing classes.
So the comments about our own actions is that we would look back on that and say we didn't execute to allow retention to go up and rate to go a tiny bit down a little bit down in the poor performing classes.
Not perfect not perfect.
It would have been better if we had achieved flat retention and rate have moved differently there.
So Brian's comment was more specific to the management of those poor performing classes.
The question that I always ask when we're talking about marketplace competitiveness is do our field underwriters think that if an account in a particular class came up for renewal today versus 1 year ago or 2 years ago would the opportunity for rate improvement be viewed differently by a field underwriter today than it would have then? And I've asked the question many times in a lot of ways and the answer that I get routinely is in the poorer performing classes no no difference at all.
In the best performing classes perhaps a little more difficult.
Perhaps a little more difficult is quite literally the words that we hear.
As we looked at the numbers our rate gains even in the best-performing classes more than offset loss costs.
And so that continues to be pretty good.
The point about the headline number is that as business moves from poor performing classes to the better performing classes by definition the headline number is going to go down.
And it would be I think inappropriate to make a direct conclusion that that number going down therefore means that rate opportunity has peaked.
What you're seeing much more is a change of mix within the classes than the ability to get a rate improvement in a particular class.
And lastly Brian mentioned that the poor-performing classes that graph that's in the materials still represents about 20% of our...
Middle-market.
Middle-market business.
So there's not -- it still represents a meaningful portion on which to improve rate.
Now I wish the answer for rate peaking or not peaking was a lot easier to say than that.
It's just not.
It's a complicated business with a lot of moving parts different business different lines and after 3 years different levels of profitability.
But that's the most fulsome response I think that we can provide.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Next question then.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And 2 good new slides this quarter and I guess just trying to synthesize them.
The point you're keen to -- seem to be making is that the mix of accounts sort of how much you need is you're taking is stable but as accounts naturally improve they're sort of fewer fewer on which you need to take weight.
I guess if we could just to belabor the point then -- just to set expectations for headline run rates though.
Should we as investors expect them to continue this sort of this slow downward trajectory into 2014 or -- 2013 was reasonably stable for most of the year after you guys sort of set a trajectory at the end of 2012.
And I'm wondering if you think it's going to look more like last year or if the recent trend for the next -- for the past quarter or 2 is likely to persist of pricing slowing as we work our way through the year? I think it's very difficult for us to project in the short term because it's a function of which accounts in particular come up for renewal in a given quarter.
So it's difficult to compare a third quarter to a fourth quarter or a fourth quarter to a first.
They're not the same accounts.
It's a different batch.
So in the short-term I'd -- we would struggle to answer that.
We just don't have the insight that I think you all think that we do.
In the longer-term if we continue to be successful I would say with certainty the headline number will continue to go down.
As accounts move into our best-performing business our goal changes to the highest retention possible consistent with maintaining margin.
That's very very different than the philosophy in the poor performing accounts where lower retention if we're unable to achieve meaningful rate gains is just fine.
Our goal is always to improve product returns.
And once accounts get into a range that are consistent with the highest levels of profitability in our industry we begin to move much more to retention.
And so if we're successful my expectation is that our retention will slowly tick up over time again I'm not speaking about quarter-to-quarter because the mix will change and that the headline rate number will continue to come down over time.
If it doesn't there's really something that we're executing that's not quite right.
Now again quarter-to-quarter because the accounts themselves are different not nearly as predictable but as an overall trend that's really is -- that's the way that we look to the business.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So if I ask if one kind of final question growth.
You guys are starting to get some results from Quantum separately it looks like in a commercial lines business you might be seeing significant growth in the targeted risk section a bit.
I'm interested in your thoughts of both in sort of success of Quantum and maybe more qualitatively what agents are really -- sort of what sort of feedback you're really getting from agents as well as if there's anything that we should be inferring from sort of rising growth in a couple of your smaller Business Insurance lines? It's Jay Fishman.
I'll start with Quantum and I'll ask Gregory Toczydlowski to chime in and provide perspective and then I think we'll look to Brian for comments and Bill come in as well on Business Insurance.
Our goal in Quantum remember we shared with you that we had back tested it and had a view of how the product would be positioned in the comparative rating engines our goal was to achieve a meaningful improvement in its positioning in those comparative raters.
That doesn't mean a reduction in profitability because of cutting price you got to absolutely remember that Quantum's premise is a lower cost lower commissioned product and therefore could support the same returns at a lower price.
That's the entire philosophy of it.
As of year-end we were in 18 states.
The -- we do know were it's positioned in the comparative rater.
We get the data.
And its positioning so far is consistent with our back testing modeling.
It is doing from a comparative rating positioning just what we had hoped it would.
Now no idea what competitor reaction will be perspectively or what will happen.
Our goal initially was to do the analysis thoughtfully and see that we have the product positioned in the comparative rating engine correctly and the price was what we had contemplated it would be.
In that regard so far so good.
It obviously you don't get -- we have an analysis an assumption of loss content.
We will find out as losses begin to develop how good that is.
We don't have a point of view or view on that yet other than the analytics that we did when we developed Quantum 2.0.
So we're not yet declaring victory that the underwriting margins coming from it will be consistent with what we modeled.
We're hopeful.
We will know more of that relatively soon I suspect over the next I don't know Greg a couple few quarters we'll begin to have a view on the loss content.
In terms of agent react -- why don't you one of you go through the agent reaction anything else you want about that.
Yes.
I think just as you said the agent reaction has been very positive.
We're 3 months in to the big wave that went out in October and we're actually not surprised on that.
We have a lot of co-development with the agents that were right here in Hartford in helping us to design the structure the features of it and so we got a lot of feedback from them in helping build the product.
And the 2-key metrics we're watching right now are we seeing an increase in flow the amount of at bats or quotes and we are seeing that.
And then the actual success of our competitive position of those quotes that we're seeing a meaningful uptick there.
So when we put both of those together we're very encouraged and as Jay said the loss experience will be the third leg of the stool that we're not waiting for a full loss ratio to develop.
We're spending a lot of time looking at surrogates or leading indicators including the profile of the business.
And again we're encouraged on that.
So across-the-board we're going to continue rolling it out with the same level of discipline and we are very enthusiastic as we do that.
On the BI front as Jay mentioned as were about returns and as returns improve we're going to be more interested in retaining more business and we feel good that we had record net written premium in BI.
It is clearly being driven primarily by pricing actions.
Independent of price there are a lot of things that we're doing to leverage competitive advantages and various strategic initiatives to grow and we've got a lot of that.
The thing that we won't be doing is trying to grow through playing a price game.
So we're not going to run a sale in the hopes of increasing our market share at the expense of returns so.
I think that's important.
The questions that we get on many of these calls seem to center on the impact of pricing and growth.
We do have a series of initiatives in our Business Insurance segment that are designed to produce growth including in 1 case more salespeople.
And hopefully it actually turns around and has an impact but we will find out.
Because we have a disciplined view of price doesn't mean that we refuse to think of or abdicate responsibility for finding growth opportunities that are there by product by people by expertise by underwriting skill and we remain committed to that.
As a business that generates 20-odd-plus billion dollars of premium a year it's a challenge to generate numbers that are consequential in the total.
But it doesn't mean that are -- we don't have serious effort and work to try to find those opportunities.
We do.
The next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> On the explanatory notes on the expected economic return table you talked about $2.5 billion of statutory surplus that was not allocated in this analysis.
Should we think of that as excess surplus? Or if not why wasn't it allocated? Jay this is Jay Benet.
First of all there is some fluidity in what the statutory surplus balance is going to look like each quarter because we have earnings and those earnings will get dividended up to the holding company.
So that's part of it.
But we also have as you know asbestos and environmental reserves and some other runoff businesses so there's capital that supports that as well.
So what we've done in this model is we've allocated all the capital that supports what we've referred to as The Business to those -- to the products associated with the business.
So we think it's a -- in that regard a full allocation of the capital that we have for the businesses.
And the majority that is not allocated is attributable to what we also would call these runoff businesses meaning specifically asbestos environmental and such.
And we have a question coming from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones here.
First can we chat a little bit about the Homeowners Insurance business? It looks like your underlying combined are in pretty good shape there.
And I guess my question is what point do you think you're going into pull back on some of the rate that you're getting in Homeowners and maybe to potentially look to grow that line of business? And could that help at all with some of the Auto insurance growth? So Brian this is Brian MacLean.
The -- clearly the Homeowners combined on a -- on any basis you look at it we feel very good.
There's obviously been a huge story of weather volatility that we're still -- so there's still a decent number of places around the country that we are still taking some underwriting actions and looking at managing that.
Broadly speaking you can look at our rate filings and see that our rate there is tempering a bit.
But in the aggregate still haven't a need.
We do expect that we will get some lift through the Quantum product.
We are very much an account-focused personal lines company.
So we sell more combined Auto and Home than any of the other major competitors.
And so we should be getting a lift as our Auto product moves out into the marketplace and get some of the traction that we were talking about before.
And I'd love Greg [ph] to comment on -- I'd just make an observation we take it for granted.
Our pricing terms and conditions profile in Homeowners is not anecdotally driven.
Right? It's not as if it's instinctive.
We're basing it on the data and the information that we have.
Yes.
And as Brian said that really does have a local story underneath that.
When you're following the perils across that product line.
So as Brian said based on some of the weather trends and the perils we've got various strategies across the country right now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question just quickly here on Business Insurance and FP&amp;II are you seeing any loosening at all in terms on [ph] conditions and from a competitive landscape out there anything that we should be concerned about as investors? Yes.
In the aggregate no.
And that's something we're put [indiscernible] encouraged with so we feel good about that.
And this will be our last question for today.
Our last question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first is so far in the first quarter there's been some pretty severe freezing temperatures.
I'm just wondering if that could lead to elevated non-cat weather from things like burst pipes in the first quarter.
I think Jay the honest answer is it's too soon to tell.
But no question when you get the severe temperature changes that you get we get claim activity from that and we've seen some of that.
We can't really assess the magnitude of it and forecast here in Northeast is another round in the next couple of days.
So we will watch it.
But -- and it's actually maybe less about the Northeast and more about when you get those severe temperatures in mid-Atlantic and down south where you really start having some challenges.
But there will be claim activity coming.
There is claim activity coming out of it but we don't -- we haven't scoped it.
Research Division</strong> And the second one on a broader issue as the economy recovers we're seeing the benefit of increased exposure growth but I think there's also the looming issue of potential increase loss cost inflation both on frequency and severity.
So when you talk about is -- 4% for baseline loss cost inflation and Business Insurance to what extent could we see that move up as the economy recovers? So I think again this is Brian Jay.
Things we worry about all the time we are seeing a little bit of exposure movement from a positive kind of GL and comp driven which are good things.
Nothing dramatic.
But there's a little bit of movement there.
Good news.
It's quite positive news right.
And on the -- so supporting your comment about signs of some economic growth we -- all I can tell you is we obsess over looking at every metric we can about what's going on in loss trend and we continue to be encouraged that we're not seeing anything out of pattern that probably the biggest thing that we look at that we've been talking about for years now is the Auto BI trend bodily injury trends and -- across all of our businesses.
And that continues to run at elevated level but it hasn't been getting worse in the last several quarters so -- but we look at it closely.
And I think that it’s -- we still far fear to say broadly speaking I'm not speaking about the insurance industry now or us [ph] but broadly speaking there remains not yet a meaningful change.
In fact but argue there isn't any change in actual inflation at least by the traditional measures by which it's reported.
We pay a lot of attention.
We read everything we can.
But it’s very much kind of an outlook question and who the heck knows.
I think it's the answer there.
Research Division</strong> As long as overall economic inflation remains benign should that be a pretty decent indicator on loss cost inflation if you boil it down? I think we have -- I think the property-casualty industry has some specific areas where we have a little bit of what I'd call inflation concentration dynamics.
So wage inflation as it relates to Workers' Comp medical inflation as it relates to Workers' Comp.
Tort inflation as it relates to general liability.
Building products as it relates to Homeowners and to some extent Select.
Like we're not about food we're not about energy really there are some pockets that are more relevant to our loss cost trends than the basket kind of dynamics that you'd pick up from traditional economics.
So we rely pretty heavily on our own look our own ability to look at the data the actual data the emerging data on those areas that affect us and look you can speculate on a lot of things.
You can speculate that perhaps medical inflation will actually continue to decline.
I don't know you could also speculate that it will go up.
There certainly more than enough economists who share an equal number of views on that.
The tort environment takes a long time to change.
Things don't change so quickly in that regard.
So while it's always on our minds because it's important for us it's not something that that's going -- I don't -- we don't think -- I don't think personally in my point of view that it will be something that will occur quickly or be a great surprise when it occurs.
It will begin to evidence itself slowly and I hope that we'll see it and be able to react from a pricing standpoint with respect to it.
Now I could always be wrong it might not be the right assessment but that's how we think about it.
Thank you all for joining us today.
As usual myself and Andrew Hersom and the Investor Relations department will be available for any follow-up questions.
Thank you and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you to please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the first quarter results teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question and answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on April 22 2014.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our first quarter 2014 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at <a href="http://www.travelers.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.travelers.com</u></a> under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian McLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
Other members of senior management are also available for the question and answer period.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will open it up for your questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I’d like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risk and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
Now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We couldn’t be more pleased to report an outstanding start to 2014 with net and operating income of over a billion dollars and record net and operating income per diluted share of $2.95.
Our operating return on equity of nearly 18% in the quarter is the highest since the fourth quarter of 2009 when we posted just over 18%.
These results keep us very much on track to meet our financial objective of achieving a mid-teens return on equity over time and this is the case even if one were to exclude our favorable prior year reserve development in the quarter given that our accident year operating return on equity was 14.7%.
In the fourth quarter of last year I shared with you that we believe we were firing on all cylinders and that continues today.
We had terrific first quarter results in business insurance where profitability improved once again.
We couldn’t be more pleased with our efforts to improve returns through the continued execution of our granular pricing strategy.
Given our segmentation approach of seeking appropriate returns on an account-by-account and class-by-class basis we have shared with you that the headline aggregate rate gain which is the result of our active pricing strategy will come down as we continue to execute this strategy.
Some industry observers perceive this as an indication of increasing price competitiveness.
We reject that notion because we are managing our pricing actions very thoughtfully and in that regard for our individually underwritten accounts we have the ability to consider each individual account’s contribution before engaging in renewal negotiations.
This is where analytical competitive advantage based on data really matters.
Our strategy is very much proactive and much less reactive than it seems many industry observers believe.
That said our assessment of the competitive environment as it relates to rate is that it is for the most part unchanged.
This is supported by the fact that we continued to achieve historically high levels of account retention.
Another point of support is the data we are providing on Slide 4 of the webcast which for our middle market business compares the renewal rate gain and number of accounts in the poorest performing segment of this business in the first quarter of 2014 to the first quarter of 2013.
You can see that the renewal rate gain was virtually the same in these quarters but that the number of accounts qualifying as poorest performing and renewed in the quarter declined from 289 to 216.
As our overall portfolio improves and the number of accounts in our poorest performance band has declined the change in the aggregate headline rate gain to the extent that this band contributes to that headline number reflects the decline in accounts in this band rather than a change in the competitive environment within the band.
In summary given that our goal is to achieve improved returns consistent with our financial objectives there’s nothing that we see happening in the competitive environment today that causes us to be less optimistic about our ability to achieve our goal.
In financial professional and international insurance we achieved 20% growth in operating income and a 47% increase in net written premiums both from the impact of the Dominion acquisition and strong performance in our management liability and surety businesses.
Our integration efforts in Canada are very much on track and we are really pleased with the progress we’ve made.
Turning to personal insurance in homeowners we produced a combined ratio of 72.4% or 86.5% excluding favorable prior year development even considering the meaningful winter weather we experienced in the quarter.
This performance taken in the context of our results over the last decade continues to demonstrate industry-leading performance.
In personal auto we experienced 1.1 points of improvement in the underlying combined ratio.
More importantly we are very excited about the deployment of our new personal auto product Quantum Auto 2.0.
We’ve now rolled the product out in 28 states and the District of Columbia.
It was our expectation that this product would dramatically improve our comparative rate or quoting position and that’s what we’re experiencing so far.
While we’ve achieved this improvement largely through reductions in price it is critical to note that this lower price structure is based upon the expense actions we have committed to and meaningfully achieved as well as a lower commission for Quantum Auto 2.0.
Consequently once fully rolled out we believe the product is priced to produce returns that are consistent with our long-term goal.
While we are reasonably confident in our estimates of loss content particularly because the product was built largely on the foundation of Quantum Auto 1.0 it will take a few more quarters for us to know more.
We will continue to roll this product out across the country and we are pleased that we now have a product that can successfully compete in this rapidly changing marketplace.
Brian will speak more about Quantum 2.0 and we look forward to talking to you more about our strategy in personal insurance during our investor day on June 6.
Finally this morning we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend per share of 10% to $0.55 per share which is the tenth consecutive year we’ve increased our quarterly dividend.
We note that the compound annual growth rate for our dividend over that time is 9.6%.
With that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
By any measure our first quarter results – record net and operating income per diluted share of $2.95 operating ROE of 17.8% and a GAAP combined ratio of 85.7% - were exceptional.
As was the case in recent quarters these strong results were built upon very solid investment results primarily driven by private equity and real estate returns along with very strong underwriting performance.
Within underwriting earned rate increases continued to exceed loss cost trends in each of our business segments although this benefit to our loss ratio was mostly offset by the severe CAT and non-CAT winter weather that gripped the country this quarter.
Our loss ratio also benefited from net favorable prior year reserve development of $294 million pre-tax which was up $63 million from the prior year quarter and was adversely impacted by catastrophe losses of $149 million pre-tax which were up $50 million.
In addition our expense ratio benefited from a $76 million pre-tax reduction in an estimated liability for state assessment that we were required to pay in relation to our workers’ compensation premiums.
This reduction in our estimated liability resulted from a change in state law that took effect in the first quarter of 2014 that clarified our payment obligations.
Each of our business segments once again produced net favorable prior year reserve development.
In BI net favorable development of $93 million was driven by better than expected loss experience for general liability excess coverages that resulted from a more favorable legal and judicial environment than we had expected as well as favorable CAT and non-CAT property loss development partially offset by higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages within CMP.
Net favorable development of $69 million in FP&amp;II primarily resulted from better than expected results in contact surety and bond and financial products while in PI net favorable reserve development of $132 million was primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in homeowners and other for CAT and non-CAT weather-related losses.
On a combined stat basis for all of our U.S.
subsidiaries’ accident year 2004 and prior developed unfavorably by a de minimis amount approximately $11 million while each accident year in the period 2005 through 2013 developed favorably in this quarter.
Operating cash flows were very strong a little over $700 million and up from $530 million in the prior year quarter.
We ended the quarter with over $1.6 billion of holding company liquidity and all of our capital ratios were at or better than their target levels.
Net unrealized investment gains were approximately $2.6 billion pre-tax or $1.7 billion after tax up from $2 billion and $1.3 billion respectively at the beginning of the year mostly due to reductions in spreads.
Book value per share was $73.06 or 7% higher than a year ago and 4% higher than at the beginning of this year.
Turning to capital management we continue to generate much more capital than we need to support our businesses allowing us to return $882 million of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter.
We paid dividends of $177 million and repurchased $705 million of our common shares including $650 million under our publicly announced share repurchase program consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy and $55 million to partially offset shares issued under employee incentive plans mostly to cover employee withholding taxes due upon the vesting and payout of performance and restricted stock awards.
Finally we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.50 per share to $0.55 a 10% increase on top of last year’s 9% increase.
So with that let me turn the microphone over to Brian.
Thanks Jay.
In business insurance we had a very strong quarter with operating income of $653 million and a combined ratio of 87.7.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of CATs in prior year development was 88.1 for the quarter an improvement of four points year-over-year.
As always there were some moving pieces in the combined ratio this quarter including a favorable non-recurring expense item and unfavorable non-CAT weather losses.
Excluding these items margin expansion driven by the impact of earned rate in excess of loss trends was about two points.
Turning to production trends beginning on Page 10 retention was up in the quarter to 81% while renewal premium change was down somewhat from recent periods at about 7%.
The 7% included pure rate increases of about 5% down about a point from last quarter.
The rate increases continued to be broad-based and were led by commercial auto.
New business volume in the quarter of $443 million was similar to recent periods.
Loss trend continued to run at about 4% for the segment so on a written basis rate gains continued to be above our current view of loss trend.
The production results for the quarter within the segment tell somewhat different stories this quarter so I’d like to spend a moment discussing each of them individually.
Beginning on Page 11 with select accounts our small commercial business the production metrics reflect the impact of our active strategy to improve the profitability on portions of this business.
For some time we have been taking the necessary actions to improve our returns and those actions have been successful; consequently we are shifting focus and rate expectations to retaining more of our business and are pleased with the four point improvement in retention this quarter.
We also feel very good about the 9.2% renewal premium change we achieved for the quarter.
Turning to commercial accounts on Slide 12 both the aggregate rate and retention were unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2013 but as we’ve commented before it’s not the aggregate number that we focus on.
As we have successfully executed our strategy of improving the returns of this business over time the headline aggregate rate increase number has moderated while retention has improved.
We continue to execute a very granular strategy to retain our best performing accounts and to get significant rate increases on our poor performing business.
As we enter the fourth year of implementing this strategy our ability to execute is largely unchanged.
So in summary we continue to see a pretty stable commercial accounts market with rate and retention dynamics consistent with improving product margins.
Looking at other business insurance on Slide 13 the environment is largely the same as for commercial accounts with the exception of the larger end of our national property business specifically large layered property risks where we have seen rate pressure intensify.
For perspective our entire national property book represents about 5% of our total business insurance net written premiums and the large layered programs are a subset of this.
In the financial professional and international segment operating income of $195 million was very strong and up 20% over the prior year quarter.
The increase was driven by the inclusion of the Dominion higher levels of underlying underwriting margins and our decision to exit a management liability excess of loss reinsurance treaty in 2014.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 90% a slight improvement from the prior year.
The improvement was due to earned rate in excess of loss trend across the segment along with the exit from the management liability reinsurance treaty I just mentioned largely offset by the impact of the Dominion.
The Dominion had a negative impact of 2.2 points on the segment underlying combined ratio.
This is the first quarter that reflects the full impact of the Dominion acquisition and I’m pleased to say that the integration is proceeding in line with our expectations.
Of course we expect that the Dominion results will improve over time; however given its relative size we don’t intend to spike it out going forward.
Turning to production results surety gross written premium of $216 million was up from $195 million in the prior year quarter reflecting gains in contract surety.
In management liability retention and renewal premium change remain strong at 85% and 8% respectively while new business was down a little bit from recent periods.
In international retention continued to improve and came in at 83% for the quarter renewal premium change rose to nearly 3% and new business was up significantly year-over-year due to the impact of Dominion.
So overall a great quarter for the segment.
In our personal insurance business operating income of $268 million for the quarter was up 36% versus the first quarter of 2013 driven by higher net favorable reserve development in homeowners along with improved underlying underwriting results in both auto and home.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 87.4 and improvement of about two points versus the first quarter of 2013 due to lower expenses along with rate increases in excess of loss trend partially offset by higher non-CAT weather-related losses.
Looking specifically at auto production retention remains strong at 81% renewal premium change was about 6% while new business volume was up significantly versus recent periods due to the rollout of our new product Quantum Auto 2.0.
Jay spoke about how pleased we are with the early production results for Quantum 2.0 and I’d like to take a moment to give you some additional color on our progress on the expense initiatives that are fundamental to our ability to make our auto product more price competitive.
As you recall in addition to a two-point commission reduction for the new product we’re taking actions on our operating expenses which will result in savings of about $140 million pre-tax.
To date we’ve executed on initiatives responsible for about two-thirds of the $140 million run rate savings and we remain on target to achieve the full run rate saves by the end of this year in line with our original expectations.
As we mentioned last year the operating expense reductions are primarily intended to benefit auto but will also benefit the homeowners results.
In terms of impact on the combined ratio the benefit from the operating expense reductions will be split roughly equally between the loss ratio due to claim expense reductions and the expense ratio due to other insurance expense reductions.
We believe that the initial success of Quantum 2.0 is due not only to the delivery of a product with competitive price and a structure that better responds to consumer buying preferences but also to the strength of our long-term relationships to the independent agent channel and the fact that we are a recognized brand in the marketplace.
Turning to auto profitability the underlying combined ratio was 92.3 for the quarter an improvement of over a point versus the first quarter of 2013 and was driven by earned rate increases in excess of loss trend.
Our current view of auto loss trend remains at about 4% with no significant change in the underlying texture from previous quarters.
Looking at homeowners production was strong in the quarter with renewal premium change of about 8.5% while retention remained at 84% and new business volume was up from the prior year quarter due in part to a lift from the improved auto new business.
From a profitability perspective the underlying combined ratio was approximately 80% an improvement of close to 1.5 points versus the first quarter of 2013 and was driven by lower expenses earned rate increases in excess of loss trend partially offset by non-CAT weather-related losses.
With that let me turn it over to Gabi.
Thank you.
Before we open it up for questions and answers may I ask you to please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up please.
Thank you.
We can now open it up for the question and answer period.
Thank you.
I had a question actually – Jay has anything changed in terms of your philosophy around CAT or non-CAT weather reserving philosophy just because it looks like this year and we’ve seen a little bit recently non-CAT weather creates difficult comps on the underlying but provides for favorable reserve development for prior year.
So is that coincidence that those—I’m just curious has that changed in the last year or two? Thanks.
This is Jay Benet.
There’s no change in the way we go about reserving.
Reserving is based on the actual storms that take place and then the assumptions that surround that and one of the things that we’ve had some difficulty with has been the weather patterns of the last several years.
If you recall not so much last year but the couple of years before that when there was a lot of tornado experience that was creating both non-CAT as well as CAT weather there was oftentimes a lot of hail with that and when the hail manifested itself usually it was several months later and some cases even longer periods of time than that and particularly last year what we saw when we had storm activity was first of all an expectation on our part that the hail development would continue as we had been seeing it and in fact what turned out to be the case was there was very little hail emersion if you will that came about.
So there’s nothing really different about the way we’re reserving but it’s just using the facts and circumstances that emerge over time to come up with the best estimates and then revise those when new information comes up.
Got you.
Great thanks.
I guess the other question I’m talking about really focusing on the lowest performing cohort and taking as much rate as you can there.
Brian it seems that that’s also been a philosophy that’s been in place for a little while.
How much more do you think opportunity there is in that cohort to continue to push for right-sized rate? How long will it take to push that cohort into the good bucket? Thanks.
Yeah so a couple points in there.
When you look at that cohort we will continue to move stuff up—we don’t have the crystal ball to know exactly when and what we’ll be able to do going forward.
When we look at the results that we’ve seen in recent quarters we are encouraged that we don’t see any change so we continue to work it account-by-account.
You know one of the things—you started with we kind of get as much as we can.
The philosophy is a little different than that.
We’re looking at these—in every cohort there’s always a distribution of accounts.
We’re looking account by account within that cohort.
We’re trying to work with the customer and with the agent to come up with what’s the appropriate number for that account.
In aggregate we’ve been able to maintain at about that 20% rate increase level but there’s a distribution of accounts within there so we’ll continue to work at it.
There will always be new business that we’ll write that will—you know we don’t write new business planning for it to be in cohort five but there will be some that will end up there.
There will be other accounts that will have loss experience that will have them deterioriate and they’ll go down into cohort five; but as you can see from the data we showed it is continuing to shrink so it will never get to zero.
But right now we feel pretty good that we are still able to take the actions we need to take on the accounts in that cohort and where we can we’re happy to retain the business and where we can’t we lose some of it.
Okay great.
That helps.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The first question I had is on the merger and acquisition environment and clearly we’ve seen a more hostile environment emerge in Bermuda.
I know that’s not at all a focus area for Travelers but Jay I was wondering if you’d focus on the M&amp;A environment currently and whether you might be interested in more bolt-on deals like the Dominion opportunity or perhaps even something more transformational.
Sure Jay.
We don’t compete in the reinsurance arena at all actually so I don’t have any particular insight into that segment or the dynamics around it.
You all understand that have a different view of that than I ever could so I’ll leave that to your commentary.
Our own situation is really unchanged which is that we’ll look at anything because you always learn by whatever you look at but our interest is very selective.
We’ve achieved a level of performance and returns and profitability that we at least domestically don’t need to be any bigger to be successful.
If we can be and continue to be successful that’s fine.
Being bigger and being less successful is a bad trade-off so we’re always evaluating whatever we look at in the context of return on invested capital – on invested capital importantly.
It’s margins profitability all that so I’d say that our interest domestically remains unchanged but relatively highly selective.
We’ve always said that there were a few environments outside the United States that from a long-term perspective we were quite interested in.
Brazil was one of them and we had the opportunity to partner with the Malucelli firm and that transaction has gone just really well.
In the context of a joint venture where so many things can go wrong so many things in this one have gone right and it’s really been a terrific experience.
It’s actually reinvigorated my belief that you can actually do a joint venture and have both parties feel good about it and be successful and do good business.
Canada was opportunistic in that there were very few acquisition candidates that were really available.
This was a decision by the owner of Dominion to exit the business strategically.
We were approached with a very small number of other people and it moved us as I commented before I think the numbers were from 21<sup>st</sup> largest in Canada to now the 10<sup>th</sup> largest but at 21<sup>st</sup> you’re not sustainable.
It really becomes difficult to hire talented people to invest in systems and infrastructure.
I don’t mean to say that the people who worked for Travelers of Canada were not talented – they obviously were.
It just puts a stress on the organization so having the opportunity to acquire Dominion and then most importantly – most importantly – there were two elements of it that were intriguing to us.
First we thought they were on the right path to doing the right things to make their own business more profitable.
We thought we could accelerate the time frame that our skills size and scale and our experience that we’ve had could accelerate that.
And then the more intermediate and longer term aspect of taking our commercial products exporting them up into Canada and using Dominion’s remarkable distribution organization to leverage that remains just right clear in focus.
It’s just so important for us to do.
I’ve expressed before although I’m less optimistic that it will happen—you know I’d love to find us in India in some way.
The challenge there is that it takes a tremendous amount of time and investment – not dollars because it’s a relatively small market time and investment in people and infrastructure management attention for a 26% ownership and it’s difficult to make sense of that.
If we had a higher degree of confidence that that regulatory prohibition would be lifted and it would become 49% we’d be more aggressive.
There are certainly plenty of partners in India who have raised their hand and have expressed interest in partnering with us so the identification of a partner is not the issue.
The issue is making real sense of an investment longer term.
You know we’re a P&amp;C company – that’s what we’re going to be.
There may be other environments that will pop up and we’ll take a look at.
Continental Europe broadly is over-insured and under-returned and doesn’t hold a lot of excitement for us so it’s going to be case-by-case.
We hope to use the venture in Brazil to look at other South American opportunities so we’ll continue to find those spots where we think that our skills the attributes the partner’s ability to bring value to the transaction makes sense and we’ll invest in it.
So that’s as comprehensive an answer as I can give you.
It’s very comprehensive – thank you.
And then just on capital management with the increase in the dividend and the strong level of retained earnings any thoughts as to whether Travelers could increase the combined share buyback and dividend to be more than an annual level of operating income going forward? Well the basis upon which the capital management starts is with the operating company capital so to the extent that you’re making—your earnings are creating capital that you don’t need that is the basis for the share buybacks and the dividends.
We’re always looking at other things that will free up capital.
You might recall from a couple of years ago we mentioned that we had reductions in the amount of reinsurance recoverables we had or there was a sale of a runoff business that both freed up capital.
So we look for those kinds of opportunities but those are things that may or not happen.
The real juice the real underlying current that gives rise to the ability to return capital that’s the earnings.
Thank you.
Great next question please.
Good morning and congratulations on a great quarter.
So first just a question of the numbers and how we should think about them.
Last year you guys ran I think over a 15% ROE; this quarter was nearly 18% and the accident year ROE that you mentioned earlier I think rounds up to 15.
I know we all need to normalize for many things as I think you guys do internally; but when you think about where you are what should we think of as sort of where you are in your core run rate ROE and how far really are you from the mid-teens ROE target that you have over time? I mean are we there and if not how much—if you sort of bring this back to the point how much more rate momentum do you think you would need to get us to that target? Josh it’s Jay Fishman.
We’re not there – most definitively we’re not there.
In order to achieve our goal and it’s not vague by intention it’s vague because our business is simply not as precise as some people tend to think.
This mid-teens ROE over time to achieve that you’re going to have to achieve periods of time where you exceed mid-teens because there will be good weather there will be bad weather and that’s going to move back and forth.
So we still have to make progress so there’s no particular change in our approach our philosophy what we’re trying to achieve.
Jay will tell you that if you take out the workers’ comp assessment change that impacts ROE by – was it 90 basis points or something? By something like 90 basis points so you can take the 14.6 and you can make it—you know there are so many moving parts and so many unusual—unusual? Every quarter has unusual pluses and unusual minuses and they just keep washing out over time.
We have more to do if we’re going to get back on track.
At this level of interest rate I’m still not 100% convinced that it is achievable in today’s environment.
We said several quarters ago – I’ll reiterate it today – it remains an aspirational goal.
I think that it’s critical in an organization to express a strategic goal and absent something fundamentally changing that’s permanent sticking with it.
It’s not just words that we use here in a webcast; it’s embedded in the systems by which we price product it’s embedded in the systems by which we evaluate risk selection.
It’s what people in the field underwriters understand their mission to be so we don’t mess with it lightly.
We leave it as is because it takes so long to get the DNA of an organization to reflect these strategic initiatives.
We’ve got two things going on: interest rates remain at overall historical lows and the weather patterns are simply less predictable than they were.
Both of those remain and we are not yet at the pricing level so we’re going to keep going.
I don’t know exactly how to quantify it – I really don’t.
I’m not holding back.
I don’t know how to quantify X-points of rate in various businesses and various product lines and help you—I wish we had that kind of granular understanding about returns and losses and the rest.
I just don’t know how to do it.
I just know that as I look at each quarter and analyze it and break it down we’re still not there yet.
That’s helpful.
This is going to seem like a non sequitur in a way because you’re still raising pricing but if we’re all sort of looking forward and trying to look maybe six months out again so what we’ll be talking about in six months and things like that.
The question if I ask you sort of a bigger question Jay this used to be a boom and bust sector and I think you called—you know among the first to sort of get the post-cycle idea out into the discussion three or four years ago and no one believed you.
But with improvements in data analytics and more responsible behavior across the board we’ve seen three years of pricing firming so everybody is starting to dust off questions as pricing slows look back at history and sort of what does history tell us.
Last time we saw pricing start to slow there was seven years of price cutting and a 40% decline in commercial lines.
It was obviously a different story – you know the backdrop was very different; but I’m wondering as you guys sort of put your strategic planning hats on and you think about the market can you help us think about what here has been structurally changed? If we were to put on a three to five-year view what do you think we’ll see if we move decisively past the firming part of the cycle? Sure and I’ll start off by saying we could be wrong.
Just because we believe it and manage our business that way doesn’t by definition mean it will be right.
It’s entirely possible that we just don’t see it right and it’s important because otherwise you always have to consider the prospect of what if you’re wrong.
We’ve been talking about much less amplitude in the cyclicality of our business for a lot more than three to five years.
I think you can go back almost 10 certainly 8 where it began to get increasingly clear to us that the factors that we thought had contributed to that remarkable cyclicality were being moderated.
They were much better data.
I know that we led that effort because of our history but we’re not unique in the sense of one and only in that regard – better data better analytics broadly across the business and the industry particularly amongst the best competitors.
I think that Sarbanes Oxley actually had a meaningful impact on our business.
It brought boards of directors into the discussions of reserve setting and the controls and procedures behind it.
Those were really good things not because they changed bad behavior because you can presume that in my comment – I don’t mean it that way – but it improved the processes.
It’s fundamentally improved the processes by which managements are held accountable which boards embrace.
That’s a big deal.
That was a meaningful change in our industry that I don’t think a lot of people really understood and I believe that now.
So now I’ll tell you—at least this is a Travelers’ view.
I’m not speaking for anybody else but I will tell you for us the question that we get asked probably more than any other which we just scratch our heads about is now that returns are where you want them to be why don’t you grow? And talk about a non sequitur question – it’s one that we so struggle to understand.
There is a presumption in that question that we can moderate our rate gains on the margin and somehow grow our business and change behavior.
First of all I don’t how to moderate thousands of transactions in any given quarter one at a time and move it on the margin.
We give our folks tools we give them processes we give them goals and we let them manage it; and the numbers in the end end up the way they end up.
We also don’t believe that you can on the margin grow your business by cutting price marginally.
I think – we think that’s just a fool’s approach to the business.
If you really want to use price as that type of a competitive approach you’ve got to cut it to the point where you’ll accept materially lower returns than anybody else.
That will change it and my guess is it will be at a level of profit that is simply unsupportable for the long term.
So we at least we reject the notion that you can moderate pricing to grow your business.
Now that doesn’t mean that we are free from that obligation.
We try really hard to grow our businesses and in many cases we’ve been extremely successful.
It’s not been based on price; it’s been based on risk selection – importantly identifying the competitive advantages that you have in your business and applying them more broadly to business opportunities that arise.
We had the best national accounts workers’ comp business there was and lots of you have been exposed to that and you understand the competitive dynamics that exist and the advantages we bring.
Once we decided that we could apply that expertise to the small commercial business we were able to grow that segment in small commercial meaningfully – really meaningfully and it mattered.
In our middle market business when we decided to get much more specific and program-driven less generalist we’ve actually been able to grow the premiums from going back to ’05 a little over $2 billion to now a little over $3 billion in that business – real growth not by price because in that period of time largely price has either been flat or its increased but by identifying segments of risk – risk return where the return trade-off was worthwhile and it made sense for us to apply those competitive advantages.
So we’re not—we may get dragged into it.
Maybe there will be other competitors that will be willing to accept sub-par returns at a level that at some point force everybody to respond – that was the old days.
I think the industry is smarter than that – I may be wrong but I think it is.
We’re running our business with that in mind and I’m hopeful – hopeful – that that will convert into a financial services business an industry in P&amp;C that looks more like so many others – greater consistency less volatility.
That level of volatility is in no one’s interest.
It’s not even in the customers’ interest.
It’s in nobody’s interest.
Consistency of risk management and its costs are important economically and I’m hopeful that we will get there.
But ultimately every company makes its own decision every company pursues its own strategy so all I’m expressing to you is ours recognizing that we could be wrong.
But that’s my view of why things are different our view of why things are different today than they were perhaps 20 years ago.
That’s really helpful Jay thank you.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Hi good morning.
The first question is on the accident year loss ratio ex-CAT for the business insurance segment.
We had some very small improvement maybe around 20 basis points of year-over-year improvement in that segment and I understand there is some non-CAT weather.
But if you could help me understand how you look at these numbers that would be helpful   I lost track of the numbers you were doing so you were looking at ex-CAT accident year— Loss ratio so that’s about 60.2 points this quarter versus 60.4 points last year’s first quarter so that’s a small improvement.
Most of the improvement on the accident year combined ratio came from the expense ratio – I believe 150 basis points after the workers’ comp.
So since you’re setting pricing in excess of loss cost I would have thought that the loss ratio would have had more significant improvement.
Yeah okay.
Jay’s got the numbers so— Yeah without getting into the specifics of it yes is how we react to it.
I mean the way we react is we obviously have some very specific views as to what the components of the changes are so in blowing apart that 20 basis points we look at what is the impact of rate earned in versus loss trend right and how does that compare to prior quarters and are the trends that we had been seeing inherent in this number that we’re seeing here.
The answer to that is yes.
We continue to earn in rate in excess of loss trends and then the next obvious question is well okay if that’s the case how come it’s not showing up? As you had said this is a quarter where the weather has on a non-CAT basis as well as a CAT basis in an area like business insurance been much more of an impact than it was in the first quarter of last year.
When you think about the weather this particular quarter with the winter storms one of the questions that we had been mulling over here was if you look at the relationship of weather-related losses in BI versus PI personal insurance while it had weather events this quarter they really kind of looked not all that dissimilar from where they had been in the prior year and in the case of BI they were much higher both in terms of CAT and non-CAT.
In looking further at that we find that in business insurance you’re dealing with insureds that have many more flat roofs that when there are ice storms and snowstorms sustain more damage than sloped roofs and homes that people own and then secondarily you have a lot of sprinkler systems in businesses and when sprinkler systems freeze and then water damage results the damage is extensive much more so than the homeowners business.
So in pulling all these things apart we look at the data we look at the relationships we look at the causality and see that it all makes sense to us and in this particular case what you are seeing are the 20 basis points of improvement but it is really the rate in excess of loss trend benefit being offset in large measure by the weather.
That’s helpful.
Just as a follow-up to that we’ve seen the expense ratio improve meaningfully.
In this segment that’s the business insurance segment and the other segments.
Curious as to whether this is repeatable and whether this is a function of management action because you feel the pace of rate increases are now starting to moderate.
Thanks.
Yeah there’s a combination of stories here.
First of all in business insurance business insurance is where the benefit that we called out in the press release relating to the workers’ comp assessments is coming through so that’s the lion’s share of what’s taking place here.
We continue to manage expenses very very carefully in business insurance and we are getting some benefit of expense leverage here that is also contributing to the reduction that you’re seeing.
But the primary driver in business insurance was the reevaluation of the estimated liability that we called out.
In other areas we have changes in commission rates that we’ve talked about that have come through also the expense saves that we talked about in PI.
So there’s lots of different stories but it all goes back in most cases to a very diligent view as to how to manage expenses in those plays.
Helpful thank you.
Next question please.
Thanks.
Good morning and congrats on the quarter.
Two quick questions.
The first question is on loss cost trends in business insurance.
Maybe using California comp as a backdrop has anything changed in terms of loss cost trends when you look at Q1 versus Q4? This is Brian.
The short answer is no.
Your comment of taking California comp as a backdrop I don’t think I’d ever use California comp as a standard for things broadly across the book of business.
So in our comp business and the other lines really no significant movements at all this quarter from what we have been seeing historically.
I can see now I was unclear.
I was alluding to SB863 and its impact.
Yeah specifically in California? Yes.
You know—yeah I don’t think we want to go that granular in talking about specific trends.
I mean we’ve got a decent-sized book in California and continue to manage it on a granular basis and feel good about it but—yeah.
Everything all those changes are reflected in the results that we’ve got in our book so we would prefer not to delve that deeply into one state’s specific actions.
Okay.
I guess sort of switching gears and going back to the discussion on Quantum 2.0 it’s in 28 states right now.
What I was trying to get at was how should we sort of think about the impact it might be having on premiums right now i.e.
is there some way to sort of segregate the impact when we look at the numbers? It’s Jay Fishman.
In the aggregate no.
Were we to dive into the individual states where the product has been rolled out what you would see – I’m trying to recall – almost universally maybe that’s not exactly so but you would see a meaningful increase in new business in each of those states.
Because it’s only been out for a few months and it’s only still out in 28 states and the DofC there is still some time to go before it evidences itself in our numbers.
I think the best that I could provide to you—this is not a budget I want to make it clear.
It’s not a budget; it is to some extent a guess on our part and of course competitive reaction can change all of this.
Our guess is that if we keep going at the pace and things remain as unchanged as they are now that by the time we get to the fourth quarter of this year we will achieve break-even status meaning that in the fourth quarter the book will no longer be shrinking.
So it will shrink again in the second quarter it will shrink again in the third.
By the time we get to the fourth we should be able to hit break-even and that gives you I think a sense of its intermediate term impact on a book of our size.
Remember that it’s all new is coming out on 2.0.
Dual is at the agent’s discretion based upon the individual customer’s need and I’m being reminded her by everybody that in my comment about the fourth quarter is that that’s policies in force not premium dollars.
Policies in force should we hope given everything we see we’d project to flatten out in the fourth quarter.
Got it.
That is extremely helpful.
Sorry – this is Gabi.
Just to remind you that you can also see on Page 18 of the webcast that new business in auto has picked up pretty meaningfully and that’s obviously largely driven by Quantum 2.0.
Totally driven.
Totally driven.
Yes that’s very helpful.
That’s all I have.
Thanks for the answer.
Okay.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Two questions.
The first is in the management liability business we see an increase—an acceleration I should say of the price increase.
I guess I’m a little surprised by that.
I’m wondering what’s happening in that business.
And then secondly related to Canada and Dominion are you able to take capital out of that business now and if not when will you be able to? Jay it’s Alan Schnitzer.
Let me start with the first one and then I’ll turn the second one over to Jay.
In management liability what you’re seeing there is our peak seasonal price change.
That’s got two components – one is rate and one is exposure so the rate underlying that sequentially in quarters would be pretty consistent up slightly but I would call it consistent with the prior quarter.
What you see in addition to that though is exposure and that’s us being able to improve our position in some accounts that have been performing well and in some cases from an excess position to a primary layer and then just an improvement in ratable.
So it’s really those two pieces that you’re seeing there.
Sorry – it’s Gabi.
Just to clarify it’s renewal premium change on the page in the webcast not renewal price change.
Got it.
As it relates to your question about the capital position and taking capital out of Canada the first and foremost is looking at the opportunity that we have with Dominion to both integrate it get it into the Travelers in as seamless a fashion as we can and then take advantage of the business opportunities up in Canada.
So we will maintain a capital base in Canada that will support those business activities and your question is a good one but it’s complicated by both profitability and growth and we’ll just manage it very carefully up there.
Okay thank you.
Next question please.
Great thanks.
On the change in the SMA liability for workers’ comp state assessments could you clarify what states that applies to and what exactly changed in the nature of that assessment? Yeah this is Jay Benet again.
The state is New York State and New York has been going through some rethinking of how they manage things associated with workers’ comp.
You might recall from last year I think it was in the first quarter maybe the second—the first? We had had a change in the way certain reopened workers’ comp claims were funded and that actually had a cost to us last year that went through prior year development.
What New York State has done recently is change the way they fund the workers’ comp bureaus in New York and effective 1/1 of this year instead of doing something that they had done historically – and without getting into all the complications associated with it – we had along with others charged policyholders surcharges in particular years and then collected those.
That was the basis upon which we were supposed to be funding at a later time what the costs were that we were being assessed by New York State for operating their various bureaus.
There was a disjoint frankly between what our surcharges were and what we were actually assessed by the State of New York and at times we saw that assessment being higher than what we had collected and that caused us to look at our obligations for that and build up an estimated liability associated with that.
When New York State changed the law effective 1/1 it didn’t change the surcharges we had collected; in fact there was a true-up period where you looked back four years from that date you looked at what you assessed in that time frame—I’m sorry what the surcharges were in the time frame what you had paid and then settled up with New York.
And we paid that but what it did was it eliminated going forward this uncertainty as to a breakage if you will between the surcharges and the assessment.
So this estimated liability for that breakage in effect was what we no longer required and going forward the matching of the surcharges and the payments to New York State will be something that will be very definable so there’s really no need for this estimated liability anymore.
It’s a one-time thing.
It’s a true-up and it’s not something that will recur.
And it transfers to the expense ratio rather than the loss ratio because it’s more of a pay-as-you-go? No it’s goes through taxes licenses and fees.
It’s just the way statutory accounting works.
Okay.
Understood.
I guess the follow-up there is that everything you described is more procedural but has there been any other kind of reform or structural change to the way New York approaches that second injury fund? Nothing this year.
Like I said last year there was a change— Nothing like an SB863 in California? Nothing to fix the real problem – this is more just procedural on how it operates? This is procedural as to how the funding of this particular element operates yes.
Okay that’s perfect.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
My question is around workers’ comp.
Clearly you’ve been working on that line pretty hard and the accident year in 2013 came down by several hundred basis points.
For this year and next year can we expect more of a gradual change or is it possible you could see some more significant improvement also? You’re talking about in the combined ratio in the— Yeah in the workers’ comp.
It’s tough to forecast what we’re going to see.
I mean I think we feel great about our comp experience and the capabilities we have and the risk selection we’ve gone through and feel confident that we’re appropriately recording the things as we see them today.
And our pricing strategies it’s similar to what we described earlier.
Where there are accounts that have been poor performing or under-returned we’ve been seeking rate gains to improve the profitability and ultimately that will evidence itself in the numbers.
So I’m not—yeah other than that do loss costs develop as we contemplate they will that’s always the variable.
Okay.
And how are medical loss cost trends running? Consistent with what our expectations have been.
We’re not going to disclose specific numbers there – I don’t think we have in the past but we—you know you can read what’s going on in medical loss cost inflation broadly in society and in the economy and it’s higher than normal inflation but something that’s consistent.
I think for us one of the things that is really fundamental to our success in this line is literally 20 years ago we decided we were going to invest heavily in our abilities to manage the medical component of the comp claims and I think we’ve got clearly industry-leading capabilities there and that really matters for us.
So we’re obviously looking at what the trend is on our book and I don’t know if that’s different than what other companies are seeing but it’s clearly been within our expectations and something we watch very very closely but right now feel good about.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
This will be our last question.
Thank you.
Thanks.
I’ll make it a quick one.
I think last quarter Alan kind of suggested that for SBI to think in terms of 92 underlying combined ratio for this year.
The first quarter came in a couple of points better than that and you guys referenced the management liability treaty as being partly a factor.
Does that change that suggested guidance for the year? Hi Larry it’s Alan.
No it doesn’t.
So we certainly took that into account when we gave the outlook a quarter ago so if you look in our 10-Q and you look in the outlook we really say the same thing about the balance of the year meaning the next three quarters we expect to be broadly consistent with full-year ’13.
So obviously we did come in under that in the first quarter so if you just do the math that would suggest a slight improvement on the full year.
But again I’d just point you back to the words broadly consistent and tell you that we continue to expect the same.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Very good.
Thank you all for joining us today.
As always Andrew Hersom and myself are available in Investor Relations for additional questions.
Thank you all and have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Results teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question and answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on July 22 2014.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President and Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our second quarter 2014 results.
Hopefully you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; and Brian McLean President and Chief Operating Officer.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
Other members of senior management are also available for the question and answer period including Alan Schnitzer Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Business and International Insurance.
Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Personal Insurance and Bond and Financial Products.
Before I turn it over to Jay I’d like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We’re quite pleased with the strong results we posted this quarter particularly given the magnitude of our catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather losses.
Operating income was $673 million or $1.93 per share.
Operating return on equity was 11.04% and we continue to make great progress on lifting our returns largely in response to continuing very low interest rates and continuing volatile weather.
Who would have thought that we’d be talking about a polar vortex in July and at 2.5% ten year treasury in 2014? As demonstrated on slide four of the webcast comparing this quarter’s earnings to last year is more than accounted for by the tax and legal settlement gains of $122 million recognized in last year’s second quarter as well as the difference in catastrophe losses quarter-to-quarter.
The short story for each of our business segments is good.
In Personal Insurance we are really pleased with the marketplace response and production trends.
The manual personal auto program Quantum 2.0.
While we need more talent more time and data the very early on loss indications are encouraging and consistent with our expectations.
Our financial professional and international insurance segment produced record results with good results from both the bond and financial products business and the international business.
In Business Insurance we continue to generate strong returns as underlying underwriting margins on an earned basis continued to expand and written rate gains in the quarter approximated loss trend.
Because there was so much interest in our assessment of the rate environment in Business Insurance we are going to spend a few minutes on that this morning before I turn it over to Jay.
At our recent Investor Day we were struck by the fact that one analyst asked a question about rate but started off by saying that he knew we didn’t like talking about aggregate rate indicators.
That’s just not so but the critical caveats in discussing the headline rate are that first we do not manage rate in the aggregate.
We manage it account-by-account or class-by-class and the actions that we take ultimately add up to a single number.
This granularity is evidenced on slide 15 of the webcast which we’ve shared with you before.
The slide is the distribution by rate gain of our commercial accounts business for the second quarter of 2014.
And Brian will talk more about this analysis later.
Second we believe that there can be an incorrect assessment of the competitive environment based upon the direction of the headline number.
Let me say again what I’ve said many times before we are a return driven organization.
We have talked with you before and have shared with you data which demonstrates that the success we are having in improving returns is based upon achieving rate gains on our poor performing business and maximizing retention on our best performing business.
And we’ve also said before if we are successful the headline rate gain will inevitably decline over time.
There is a conventional reaction amongst many industry observers that this decline reflects as many we put it a more competitive environment.
We just don’t see it that way given our ability to continue to achieve strong levels of retention at increasing returns approaching our targets.
If we have an account where we’ve been successful at increasing returns over time and that account has now reached an appropriate level of profitability it would be unwise of us to attempt to continue to increase rate significantly on that account and risk the relationship with the agent and customer.
Consequently we just caution everyone from reacting to the decline in the headline number as an indication that the environment generally has become meaningfully and broadly more competitive.
At least for us the environment has become more rate adequate and we are executing account-by-account and class-by-class.
So now after three plus years of actions resulting in improved returns and profitability the question is where from here.
We’ve been reluctant to use the phrase soft landing because we believe that the phrase is often mischaracterized to mean that somehow we have finished attempting to improve the performance of our portfolio.
Nothing can be further from the truth we remain concerned that weather volatility remains problematic and we are not convinced that each of our catastrophe exposed property accounts is priced to reflect that volatility.
In addition not every line or every class of business is performing at the same level.
For example we are not satisfied with the returns on our commercial auto book particularly in select and we will continue to analyze that portfolio and take the actions necessary to improve it.
So we have more work to do but there are lots of accounts that after years of successful rate and underwriting actions are now at return levels that are consistent with our return threshold and our expression of the soft landing relates to that portion of the book what we have achieved so much.
We don’t see anything in the marketplace that suggests that we are at a precipice whether the increased churning of accounts were significant across the board the rate of declines are imminent.
Of course we could be wrong about this we know we operate in a fragmented marketplace with lots of competition.
But we can only share with you our strategy.
From our view it is more or the same and as we share with you at Investor Day we are going to relentlessly leverage competitive advantages.
It should allow us to out select and out price our competition.
We expect to produce earnings and capital substantially in excess of what we need to support our business and we will continue to return that excess capital to shareholders.
In short nothing new and no shift we feel very well positioned to continue our mission to creating superior shareholder value.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
Let me start by saying that we are very pleased with our results this quarter particularly taking weather into account.
Our investment results continue to be very solid driven by private equity returns as were our underlined underwriting results.
Within underwriting earned rate increases continue to exceed loss cost trends in each of our business segments.
Al though the benefit to earnings into loss ratio was partially offset by higher non-CAT weather related losses this quarter versus the prior year quarter.
Underwriting also benefited from net favorable prior year reserve development of $183 million pre-tax down slightly from the prior year quarter and was negatively impacted by CAT losses of $436 million pre-tax up $96 million from the prior year quarter.
We provided two analyses in the webcast this quarter to help you better understand the relationship of operating income to both the prior year quarter and to analyst estimates.
Jay already discussed the first analysis shown on page four of the webcast which provides insight as to why operating income decreased from the prior year quarter.
The second analysis shown on page five of the webcast provides insight as to why operating income was less than the consensus estimate.
The CAT loss estimates contained within the consensus estimates where significantly lower than our actual CAT losses.
We hope this type of analysis is helpful to you.
Each of our business segments once again experienced net favorable prior year reserve development and BI net favorable development of $25 million was driven by better than expected loss experience in general liability excess coverages for accident years 2008-2012 resulting from a more favorable legal and judicial environment than we had expected.
This was partially offset by an $87 million increase to our environment reserves.
Net favorable reserve development of a $146 million in FP&amp;II primarily resulted from better than expected results in contract surety within bond and financial products.
While in PI net favorable development of $12 million was primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in home owners and other were non-CAT weather related losses in the 2013 accident year.
Year-to-date on a combined stat basis for all of our US subs only accident year 2004 and prior developed unfavorably by a very modest amount $73 million due to the strengthening of environmental reserves.
All other accident years 2005-2013 developed favorably.
We’ve included an overview of CAT reinsurance coverage on page 22 of the webcast which has been structured in a way that is generally consistent with the prior year.
Effective July 1 we renewed our Gen CAT treaty keeping both the attachment point and the dollar amount of recovered loss as the same as last year.
Recovered losses of up to $400 million within the $1.5 billion to $2.25 billion layer also effective July 1 we renewed our North East Gen CAT treaty with the same $2.25 billion attachment point as last year with an increased dollar amount of recovered losses up to $850 million this year as compared to $600 million last year.
Given the current reinsurance marketplace both renewals were accomplished at lower rates online and with improved terms and conditions including amending the loss accounts definition so that all win losses have a duration of a 168 hours rather than 96 hours.
A more complete description of our CAT reinsurance coverage including a description of our two long point PRE-CAT bonds our Gen-CAT aggregate excess of loss treaty that covers an accumulation of certain property losses arising from multiple occurrences our earthquake coverage and our international coverage is included in our second quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier today as well as in our 10-K.
We continue to generate much more capital than is needed to support our businesses allowing us to return $1.065 billion of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter.
We paid dividends of $190 million and repurchased $875 million of our common shares under our publicly announced share repurchase program consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy.
Operating cash flows remain strong a little over $600 million.
And we ended the quarter with over $1.8 million of holding company liquidity.
All of our capital ratios exceeded our target levels and we ended the quarter with a debt to a capital ratio of 21.3% well within our target range.
Net unrealized investment gains rose to approximately $3.1 billion pre-tax or $2 billion after tax up from $2 billion and $1.3 billion respectively at the beginning of the year due to lower interest rates.
And book value per share of $75.32 was 30% higher than a year ago and over a 7% higher than the beginning of the year.
One final note as you know we are revising our business segments and related disclosures to reflect the management changes that were announced on June of 10th and became effect on July 1.
Accordingly we report third quarter results using the new segment structure.
We are currently in the process of restating our 2013 Form 10-K and our second quarter 2014 Form 10-Q and our financial supplements for the periods contained therein to reflect the new segment structure.
And we expect to make these restated documents available to you in early September.
So with that let me turn things over to Brain.
Thanks Jay in business insurance second quarter operating income was $409 million and the combined ratio was 99%.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of CAT’s and prior year reserve development was 92.1% for the quarter an improvement of a 4 percentage point year-over-year.
And 90.1% for the first half of 2014 an improvement of 2.5 points over the first half of 2013 the point of improvement in the quarter was driven by about 2 points of earned rate in excess of loss trends partially offset by about a point of non-CAT weather losses.
So despite the significant impact of weather solid profitability in the quarter.
Turning to production trends beginning on page 11 retention of 81% was strong and slightly higher than recent periods.
New business volume of $486 million was 8% was higher quarter-over-quarter while renewal premium change was down somewhat from recent periods at about 6%.
The 6% included pure rate increases of about 4% which was about a point lower than the last quarter.
As has been the case for last 13 quarters all major lines of business had positive rate change with the largest change this quarter coming in commercial auto.
Not surprisingly auto was the line of business with the lowest return and accordingly the greatest rate need.
Loss trend for the segment continued to run at about 4% so on an aggregate written basis rate gains approximated our current view of loss trends.
We believe the production results both in the aggregate and by line of business are appropriate given our view of product returns.
But as Jay mentioned in his comments we don’t manage the business in an aggregate or total line level.
We execute it account-by-account or class-by-class and this is demonstrated on slide 15 which displays the distribution of renewal rate changes for commercial accounts in the second quarter.
As you can see from the slide most accounts received a single digit rate increase.
But there were numerous accounts that got a rate increase greater than 10% or got some level of rate decrease.
There were also some general trends in the portfolio recently larger accounts have lower average rate changes.
And has been the case for several quarters commercial auto accounts have higher average rate changes and there’s always individual account loss experience matters.
But the real take away from this slide is that the aggregate rate number is simply an average of thousands of individual account actions.
And accordingly success in this business is not about achieving a higher aggregate rate number it’s about doing the right things for the right account and generating an appropriate return over time.
So in this context our fundamental approach is unchanged and the results continue to be encouraging.
Simply put we are retaining a very high percentage of our best performing accounts at relatively modest rate increases.
While on our poor performing business we continue to get rate increases significantly above loss trend with lower retentions.
We are comfortable moving away from business where returns remain well below target levels and as always we actively look for new business opportunities with appropriate returns.
We continue to be very comfortable with how our organization is executing at the granular level and accordingly feel very good about the results.
In the financial professional and international segment we had record operating income of $254 million which was 65% higher than the prior year quarter.
The increase was driven by higher levels of favorable prior year reserve development improved underlined underwriting margins lower catastrophe losses and the inclusion of the Dominion.
The underlined combined ratio for the quarter was a very strong 89 two a slight improvement from the prior year.
The improvement was due to the 2014 exit from a management liability excessive loss reinsurance treaty along with earned rate increases in excess of loss cost trend across the segment largely offset by the impact of the Dominion.
Net written premium was up 38% in the quarter compared to the prior year due to the inclusion of Dominion.
In the management liability business within bond of financial products retention of 84% and new business of $37 million were both consistent with recent periods in prior year while renewal premium changed of about 4% was down somewhat from recent periods.
In the international retention remains strong at 80% while renewal premium change improved to 3% and new business was up year-over-year due to the impact of Dominion so overall a great quarter for the segment.
In our personal insurance business operating income of $75 million for the quarter was down 47% compared to the second quarter of 2013 driven by lower net favorable prior year reserve development and home owners along with higher levels of catastrophe related losses in both auto and home.
The underlined combined ratio for the quarter was 89.8 a slight improvement over the second quarter of 2013 with lower underwriting expenses and rate increases in excess of loss trends largely offset by higher non-cap weather related losses.
Looking specifically at auto on the production side retention remains strong at 82% renewal premium change was about 6% while new business volume of 139 million was once again up significantly versus recent periods due to the rollout of Quantum Auto 2.0.
We continue to be very pleased with the early results for Quantum Auto 2.0 the product is now live in 31 states and those states represent about 85% of our countrywide auto new business production.
In the states where we’ve launched the product we’ve seen quoted policies increase more than 10% while the number of policies issued has more than doubled from pre-launch levels.
In addition we continue to make progress on the expense initiatives announced a year-ago that are fundamental to our ability to make our auto product more price competitive.
To date we’ve executed on initiatives responsible for about 75% of the $140 million run rate savings target and we remain on track to achieve the full run rate sales by the end of the year in line with our original expectations.
Turning to auto profitability the underlying combined ratio of 96.2 for the quarter was a slight improvement compared to the second quarter of 2013 with earned rate increases more than offsetting loss trend and the impact of higher mix of new business versus renewal business volumes.
Our current view of auto loss cost trend remains at about 4% with no significant change in the underlying texture from previous quarters.
Looking at homeowners production was strong in the quarter with renewal premium change of about 8% while retention remained at 84% new business volume of $85 million was up from the prior year quarter and recent periods due in part to account rounding on our auto new business.
From a profitability perspective the underlying combined ratio of 81.5 was in line with the second quarter of 2013 with earned rate increases in excess of loss trend and lower expenses offset by non-CAT weather-related losses.
So overall in personal insurance we saw strong profitability and an improving production picture.
With that let me turn it back over to Gabi.
I’m sorry there is an addition from Jay Benet.
Yes thanks Gabi before we open for questions I did want to mention one additional item.
We’d be remiss if we did not say how pleased we were to have been recognized as a A++ company by AMBEST [ph] this past May so we just thought we’d end with that and we’d be happy to take your questions now.
Kelly we are ready for the question and answer portion.
May I ask that you all limit yourself to one question and one follow-up please? Thank you.
Yes thanks couple of quick questions here for you.
First of all Jay just curious if I look at the business insurance and you kind of strip out the reserve releases and you can normalize for CAT losses.
I kind of come up with about a 12% underlying return equity for the business I guess my first question is that right and is that about where you’re kind of targeting given the current interest rate environment? I’ll answer the second part of it; I’ll let Jay Benet – if he does the math in his head.
We’ve been saying for some time that our stated target of achieving the mid-teens return on equity overtime was simply really not achievable in this interest rate environment but we were willing to keep it as a statement an aspiration goal but also because so much so many of our systems and our culture are geared around it.
Having said that we’ve chosen to avoid the notion of an artificial ceiling on what rate adequacy or return adequacy is on an individual line or an individual business.
Some of that is driven by competitive dynamics what is the rest of the marketplace doing some of it is based upon capacity.
So I – it feels obviously at 2.5% tenure treasury a 12% number feels pretty good but that doesn’t mean that we’re going to not pick the actions on an account-by-account or class-by-class basis that would continue to lift it if it’s possible.
So that’s really our honest assessment of it it feels pretty good to us but maybe there’s more and we’re certainly going to try but that again is a specific comment more than it is an aggregate rate number.
It’s so important that we always keep that in mind we price individual accounts we don’t price the portfolio.
But if you’re pricing right now in line with trend isn’t that kind of mean you’re assuming that return to adequate? I’m sorry Brian try me again.
You said you’re pricing you’re pricing your business insurance in line with loss trend right? Oh no no what Brian said was that our best accounts are getting modest loss trend.
I believe I’m trying to go back to his comments and that our poorer performing accounts whatever that means in that framework if the three years of rate increases but there are always poorer performing accounts if the poor performing accounts are getting significantly more rate increase at lower retention.
So another way to say that Brian is this quarter the way the arithmetic worked out is rate that we got on the entire portfolio approximated the aggregate loss trend but that could be very different and we could be thrilled with the result or unhappy with the result either direction depending on how we get there.
And I think the other part of that that really is important is that we wouldn’t contemplate that we can improve our profitability by getting meaningful rate increase on our best performing business.
Our focus there is to do our best to offset trend and to maximize retention.
Our improvement in profitability is going to come from identifying those segments that under perform.
And continuing to make real progress there I recall in the last quarter we actually put up a slide which showed the rate gain in our fifth bucket in commercial accounts I think.
I can’t remember whether it was commercial or middle market but compared to the number of accounts in the rate gain to the previous year’s quarter and the rate gain in that fifth bucket was 21% I think last year and 20% this year was the rate gain.
That’s where the improvement and profitability is going to come from not just from that shift class but that’s the example here.
It’s going to be identifying those segments that continue to underperform and continuing to drive one.
Great thanks.
The other thing I would add before I’ll address your first question is that we have this internal discussion about margin improvement.
And you have to look at it in terms of what you’re talking about.
Are you talking about combined ratio or you are talking about dollars.
And when you talk about combined ratio now if you do the arithmetic if you’re covering loss trend let’s make up some numbers let’s say you have a 60% loss ratio obviously premiums were at the 100%.
If you’re covering loss trend that’s 4% with rate increases you’re multiplying the denominator and the numerator by the same number.
And you come up with the same combined ratio at the end of it 60% loss ratio 60% in this case which you lose track of in that of the dollars because you’re applying a 4% increase to a 100 and another 4% increase to 60% of that.
So you’re actually increasing the dollars of margin and increasing profitability therefore even when you’re loss trend.
So I just say that for all of you to keep in my mind that you’ve got to look at it as to what question you’re really asking.
Is combined ratio changing or dollars of margin changing.
Getting back to the first question about the overall returns we do an analysis of our quarters our year-to-dates.
And if I look at the year-to-date operating return on equity which was 14.6% there is prior year development in there.
Prior year development to our accounts because a lot of it relates to recent periods where we’ve seen trends different than what we expected and they’ve been favorable.
So in any given period you can adjust for but if you look at the 14.6% and back out the amount of PYD and divide by the average equity you’ll come up with something that looks like a proxy for an accident year this year.
So that’s a way of looking at it but as Jay said we look at these returns over time and we try to manage as close as we can to that mid-teen’s goal.
Hi good morning.
I was hoping you could maybe review the topical issue the connections between the insurance market and primary market particularly in the large account basis and just giving the fact that we’ve seen a lot of rate decline and of reinsurance and how should we think about that affecting your businesses as the competitive environment changes a bit? Hi Paul it’s Jay Fishman.
We think a lot of pitching a little on that first I just observed that broadly speaking we are really not a large account writer.
I suspect in the context of the question that you’re asking we are a small commercial and middle market account company.
We do large accounts on a fee for service basis that are largely independent of the reinsurance decisions.
And we obviously do some national property business; we certainly do that for large accounts.
Anecdotally although some evidence I think exists the layered national property business and my recollection we did this last quarter.
I think it’s less than 5% of our premium business overall but the layered large account property business is a much more a price sensitive price driven marketplace more challenging than it was before.
Now there are returns in that segment that are awfully attractive and so you’ve got to balance up the notion of competitive dynamics within the overall returns.
But nonetheless I think you’re seeing we think you’re seeing some of the changes in the new capital formation.
Whether it’s reinsurance by the way or excess in surplus bumping into that layered national property account business.
And I would say on a primary side for us that’s probably where the impact is most significant.
I’m trying to see if anybody else here has a different view? We’re really not – our treaty reinsurance is for a company of our size relatively modest.
And so we’ve got either savings opportunities they’re nice but they’re not going to move the needle very much or we can change the way in which we purchase.
We can but more for the same dollars or less for even fewer dollars but on the margin it doesn’t change anything.
I’ve been asked a few times whether in this is an opportunity for us and I suspect that what people are thinking is does the calculus behind primary exposure change? Would you be willing to do either different classes of business or more business particularly in catastrophe exposed areas and rely more on reinsurance to produce an acceptable return.
So far the answer for us is no that we worry a lot about the mismatch of business we worry a lot about relying on reinsurance as a strategic solution rather than as a risk balancing factor if you like.
And the notion of expanding our liability base and relying on a reinsurance contract to bail us out.
We were not quite sure of that reinsurance capacity really sticks is it permanent is it really there for the long haul? It’s just not clear to us yet.
So for us the answer is that the impact of all of this is not yet very much.
We spend not an insignificant amount talking about it and thinking about ways in which it could impact us but so far I think you’re hard pressed other than that layered national property business to find an area where it’s really having an impact.
Maybe another fundamental question here you’d obviously talked a lot about how focusing on that renewal rate number and commercial insurance is not necessarily the best measure of what your assessment of the competitive environment.
What’s the alternative for us to look at and also illustrate? That’s actually a great question and I think you asked it actually in exactly the right way.
It’s not that the number doesn’t have arithmetic meaning we acknowledge it does but the tendency to perceive it as a competitive indicator we just don’t see that.
We’ve always said and have for many years that retention is going to be the leading indicator of a changing competitive environment.
And I’ll go back to the last really difficult pricing environment that we had which was back into the ‘90s you’ll see retention rates in middle market drop down into the high 60s.
And that really defined what was going on there was tremendous churn in the marketplace.
It didn’t happen overnight but retention rates declined and that followed that led if you will the overall rate dynamic.
Now we haven’t seen that yet we haven’t seen it on the way up we haven’t seen it – we’re still on the way up although we’re at slower rates.
We just haven’t seen a drop in retention and we said for a long time that we think that’s the principle indicator.
Now we also to provide whatever anecdotal observation we can we often have provided you with commentary about what we’re hearing from the field.
They had to take that with a bit of a grain of salt because it doesn’t mean it’s right but there are observations from people in the field dealing with individual accounts every day.
And our comments remain that there’s nothing that we’re hearing from our folks that would cause us to think that we’re at a precipice or broadly a more meaningfully competitive environment but I watch retention.
And that’s what I look at and when I see a drop in that that’s when it’s time to begin to understand what’s going on in that local environment.
Good morning.
Thank you so much for taking my call my question is regarding to the segmentation changes and management change recently.
Could you comment a little bit more on that? We have much more to say we put out a press release its part of management’s responsibility our responsibility here is to make sure that the younger talent in the organization gets additional exposure internally exposure externally and position the company for continuity and just felt to us like a very ordinary and inappropriate thing to do.
The real alignment was to a great extent driven by reporting relationships within those changes so much more about the people than about any particular realignment about the business.
Great just follow-on that and Jay has done a wonderful job for the company and the shareholders and is this the recent management change is part of evolution about how the boards think about the succession plan? Well I would never speak for the board and so – we think we have a responsibility to develop talent and present to the board as solid a management team as we’re capable of doing.
And we’re going to be a management team that’s going to step up to that responsibility and not side step it.
The depth of the folks in this place around here it never fails to amaze me.
The talent here is just remarkable.
And my job particularly is to make sure that those people get additional responsibility and additional exposure.
And that when that time comes that it’s very natural there’s nothing upsetting to the organization internally.
There’s nothing upsetting to the constituents externally it’s as it should be and that’s really my goal.
For I mean – I’ll be 62 in November Brian I think is going to be 62 later this year.
I think Jay Benet will be 62 in August so we all – we’re not Methuselah here we’re mere mortals and our time will come.
And our job is to develop that next generation and present them and just have it not be a big deal.
Thank you next question please.
Thanks and I’m not 62 yet so.
Just two quick follow-up questions.
The first is I guess it was Brian’s question and you answered that.
Jay you said retentions you haven’t seen it on its way up.
And I’m trying to sort of think about those and you’re right we should focus on retentions and rate adequacy if so many lines are at rate adequacy shouldn’t that eventually start class stating [ph] into better retentions and eventual growth in premiums? Complicated question.
I think that retention something [indiscernible] taught me many years ago that the real emotional content behind retention is agent comfortable market comfortable customer comfortable a terrific set of circumstances where everybody feels good and fair and equitable in the relationship.
And that will encourage accounts to stay where they are.
And that’s a really good thing it’s good for the accounts by the way.
We think tenure matters; we think it’s a advantage it’s good for the agents.
They can attend to things that they need to attend to and obviously it’s good for the carriers that have the business.
So the retention dynamic is I think really a reflection of the level of comfort of all of the parties to the transaction.
And that’s really good that’s a good thing.
Dynamic of growth is a more challenging one.
There’s no green light that goes on that says now we’re interested in growing.
Always interested in doing more business always and when we can bring on new accounts and we have – we’ve demonstrated this in slides in years gone by.
Recognizing that there is a the internal expression is a new business penalty but recognizing that there’s a new business penalty associated with it if we can see a pathway to bringing on new accounts and over time managing them to acceptable returns we’re going to go ahead and do that there’s nothing different about that this month than there was last month.
And it’s not as if we weren’t booking new business a year-ago when rates weren’t as attractive as they are now.
We were we were as aggressive as we could be.
And if anything I would say that – if we had any disappoint is that we weren’t actually doing more notwithstanding our encouragement.
The thing to recognize is that and again I’ve said this before I apologize for saying that so many times I don’t want it to sound it as though we believe this because of this quarter and this is what we’ve said.
You’re not going to grow your book by marginally changing your price attitude at the point of sale.
First of all we don’t have a price list.
We don’t have a price list; it’s an individual underwriter sitting down with an agent talking about an individual account.
So it’s not as if we can say lower prices by 3% or 4% it just isn’t that precise.
And so the way you the way you grow is by perceiving opportunity typically by risk selection either categories of risk lines of business geographies that you weren’t in before that amount for any number of reasons you perceive opportunity for us Canada terrific opportunity Brazil a terrific opportunity.
We showed at Investor Day we’ve grown our middle markets business.
My recollection is like by 50% over eight or nine years from $2.1 billion to $3.2 billion in premiums.
Now at the same time our construction surety business has shrunk pretty dramatically as a result of the environment we’re in.
And so you have to be – we’re not in one market we’re 50 markets.
And you have to be nimble enough to see the opportunities where they are and pursue them aggressively but also be cautious enough to understand the risk presented in a changing set of circumstances and dial it back.
So we’ve been growing in the lines of business here significantly and either because circumstances change or we made mistakes in some markets than we did we we shrunk others so it’s all in net but it is in that granular dynamic.
My apologies for the fire alarm just very quickly is there a portion of your book which can be potentially structured into a sidecar or an alternative capital provider thanks.
Jay Fishman – I’m reluctant to give a quick answer on something that we haven’t really thought about it we haven’t spent time contemplating it.
I actually thought where you were heading was a portfolio transfer transaction which we always think about but I haven’t thought about the sidecar dynamic and I’d be reluctant to answer on the slide.
Next question please.
Thank you.
I had a question about Dominion actually if I remember right that was a business where you guys bought it was operating around a 100 combined and it looks like you’ve really turned that around very quickly  just curious kind of where’s that business running now.
And maybe you can just talk a little bit about what actions you’ve taken in order to kind of to get yourself to that place thanks.
Sure Michael its Alan Schnitzer I’ll handle that.
I guess I would say I would caution you from thinking that we’ve turned it around that quickly there’s certainly a lot integration work going on and we’re still; we’re still hard at work on that.
So the improvement you’re seeing I guess is your you’re looking at the results and seeing the combined ratio relative to what we guided you to and treating that to Dominion that’s actually not correct its mostly a reinsurance transaction and some large losses that were better than what we had in the ‘92.
So it’s actually not coming from the Dominion but to get to your to get to your question what are we doing? We’re doing all the sorts of things you’d think that that a company like us would be doing.
We’re working hard with Greg Toczydlowski in personal insurance and the whole business insurance team to bring all the know-how and sophistication in data and analytics some scale and synergy advantage but really just taking the know-how we have resident here at Travelers’ and exporting it to that platform.
And we feel very good about the opportunity as good as we did when we signed up the deal but I can’t tell you that it’s all been reflected in this quarter.
So then so the expense ratio benefit that we saw is primarily a result of the reinsurance can you mention them? No no the expense benefit you saw does primarily come from the Dominion but there is there is a more than offsetting loss ratio deterioration from the Dominion.
So on a net basis and an all win basis loss and expense ratio the Dominion is actually hurting but it is helping on the expense ratio pretty significantly.
And it’s a loss ratio piece we think over that time we’ll be able to work through and bring to hurtle levels.
That makes sense.
Next question please.
Thanks very much.
First I’ve been covering the company and industry for a long time.
I think we all understand the spring storms tend to be a heavy seasonal CAT quarter.
I think it will be helpful for folks to get a perspective on what you would normalize annual CAT load to be.
If I look back over say the past dozen years I think the average is between 4 and 5 combined ratio points.
Is that a good starting point? And Jay just for clarification you were talking about in the second quarter.
Correct I was talking about – say for the full year I think that gives a better perspective.
Actually this is Jay Benet Jay actually if you go to the proxy there’s a discussion about results and in it we do talk about what the expectation was for the CATs in the year versus where we ended up.
And my recollection is the numbers about $550 after tax dollars.
In dollars yes so we’re just having somebody open up the proxy and make sure we’re right about that.
Okay thank you I can generally take a look at that.
On the next issue it would be in terms of capital return I’m wondering if we were to think about out years could Travelers ultimately be in a position where dividends plus share buy backs could exceed in your operating earnings? Not permanently it can obviously year-to-year.
And that’s really a function of timing but the only way that it could actually exceed earnings permanently would be if we look today at the company.
That’s the only way to do it so you know not permanently no.
Jay let me just jump back it’s Brian McLean you started with we all kind of know spring storms and volatility and clearly we do but when we look at our data of particularly what’s happened with spring weather over the course of the last – well since 2008 it’s dramatically higher than what you would have seen in the previous 20 years.
To the extent of you know a 3X kind of number and in fact that’s not even counting the 2011 off the charts number that we had.
So we’ve always known that we would have near term short term volatility in our CAT numbers and everybody follows the industry it’s used to looking at that but particularly for the second quarter tornado hail activity and how our product is used to deal with that we really have done a lot of thinking about what’s the long term move to and whether we see continuing volatility in that number? A good example anecdotal actually of the magnitude of the volatility there was not two on the go we didn’t think about catastrophe loading auto in personal auto.
We do now and that’s just the function of experience.
So we’re reacting to the changing weather patterns kind of almost on a real time basis.
It’s hard to answer the question at this point of what a normal level is that’s why we talked about it so much over the last few years.
There’s been a driver of not only weight but underwriting in terms of conditions; it’s just proving to be a challenge.
Next question please.
Hi good Morning.
First question on the competitive environment I think you’ve done a good job explaining that it’s largely unchanged.
Jay you mentioned that you think there is likely going to be a soft landing.
Just curious sort of looking at the cycle versus the past what’s different and what gives you confidence that there is going to be a softer landing this time around? Just because it’s my opinion doesn’t mean it’s so; I need to start off with that.
It’s just one persons point of view right we’ve been talking for years now about the fact that our view was that the magnitude of this cyclicality in our business we thought would be lower than an historical experience.
And it was driven by everything from much better data across the industry.
I’ll exclude myself but I think much better management in the industry than wasn’t the case 20 years ago.
You look at capital deployment philosophies; it’s different than it was 20 years ago.
I think Sarbanes Oxley and the attention of audit committees and boards to adequacy of reserves to the level the procedures and policies around reserve setting has made them much more accurate.
It’s not that people were abusing it before it’s that there’s a whole different level of attention and focus on those initial picks what’s driving them what are the factors for transparency that exists to what the governance committee external auditors internal auditors boards those are all things that will make the accounting and reserving process better.
Never guarantee we’re all talking about the future but it will make it better and I think it has.
And I think as a consequence of that the feedback move between clean performance and underwriters and pricing decisions is stunningly faster than it was 20 years ago.
We actually are at a point now where we’re booking weather dynamics virtually month-to-month.
When I first started here you were lucky if you had it in the quarter that’s the level of feedback there was.
So the delay in understanding what’s trans-factoring it back into reserving and changing pricing was much more attenuated than it is today its crisp.
And I’ve listened to other companies and how they report I don’t think we’re unique in that regard I think – I listen to other companies and I’m impressed by what I hear and the nature of controls and procedures and the thoughtfulness and I think is a consequence the magnitude – there’ll always be some cyclicality here and there’s cyclicality in every business.
But I said coming close to probably 8 or 9 years ago I thought that the amplitude on the way up as well as the amplitude on the way down were going to be much more narrow.
I think that was true obviously on the way up we will now see it on the way down.
So that’s what I think and we’ll find out I think the leadership in this industry has come to understand that attempting to grow market share by marginally changing price and actually creating share holder value from it is impossible.
I think about it all the time and I don’t know how to do it and I’m not sure anybody else does.
And so we’ve all learned within our own cultures and our own environment and our own strategies how to manage our businesses to create shareholder value that’s what we’re supposed to do.
Thank you and just a quick follow-up on the Quantum 2.0 I think you said that the results weren’t what the expectations just a little bit more color on that.
You’ve had 6 months and so what do you think in terms of loss and what’s your expectations thanks.
I’m going to turn it over to Greg in a second to talk about loss trend but it would be remiss if I didn’t observe because I think he takes it for granted on this.
We mentioned that the number of quoted policies is actually up 10%.
That’s one of the really wonderful surprises here we thought going into this that we were being quoted everywhere because of the comparative rating process.
And it was not our going in expectation that by putting in a different model that we would actually increase the number of quotes.
And so what’s been – that 10% is a big number and what’s impressive about that is the agent understanding and reaction of the Travelers product of Quantum 2 as a legitimate competitive product and they’re embracing it in their quoting process.
So that’s where we loss trend but we’ve to some extent taken for granted internally the increase in quotes but it’s a substantive plus.
Absolutely and I think that echoes about how we feel about loss performance we’re very encouraged when we saw that increase in quote flow that Jay talked about.
Obviously our focus then shifts right to the margin about how we’re feeling about the profitability in that business given that we’ve just launched our three largest states last month.
We’re not up on our 1 year anniversary obviously we don’t have a credible set of earned premium yet to really declare a victory but our focus is really looking at long-term surrogates of profit right now including the mix of business short-tail coverage’s like the frequency on physical damage coverage and all of those things that we’re looking at they’re right within expectation.
So we’ll continue to aggressively measure the ultimate combined ratio but all those proxies that we look at are within expectations.
So we’re feeling as good about the quote flow that Jay talked about that we are with the early loss indicators.
Before we go to the next question Jay Benet has a correction.
It’s a comment more than a correction.
We said we would give you the number from the proxy as it relates to the quote unquote normal CAT losses.
And what we’re remembering was actually from two years ago the proxy from 2013 had $645 million as the after tax cost associated with CAT.
So we had $550 before and as I’m reflecting on that the thing I’d want to share with you is really the fragility of these kinds of estimates because looking at the $550 going to $650; it’s not a reflection of increased exposure.
It’s really a reflection of trying to refine year-over-year what these CAT estimates are.
And it’s not all that long ago that if you ask the same question we would have said something like $350 million after tax.
And thinking back to those times it’s our exposure base was actually quite a lot larger than that.
So this notion of – so while we’re saying this is quote unquote normal I just want to highlight the fragility of the estimates.
Great next question please.
Hi.
Thank you.
I have a couple on reserves and it’s in the commercial area you commented that asbestos environment led to kind of 08 to 12 releases.
Can we infer just kind of from a normal claim closing pattern on general liability that anything you’d get 08 and prior in that area is kind of – you would have seen it by now? This is Jay Benet when we’re doing; we’re dealing with reserves by definition we’re dealing with incomplete information.
So we’re looking at new information that’s coming in every quarter and evaluating that with regard to whatever the assumptions have been.
So I wouldn’t look at any one of our reserves as being at finality.
We’re always looking at the flow of information and adjusting.
There are times when you see some things; you’re not sure whether you’re going to react in full or in part to it.
So I think it’s the best I can do to answer your question.
Okay.
Yeah I mean I’m just trying to get a sense of – because there’s some PL and GL but it’s not it’s not as long as like asbestos environmental so I’m just trying to get a sense of if there really even is the potential for a lot more to come from 08 and prior? I mean our reserves are always a best estimate so we don’t really comment on whether they’re going to change we’ll see what the data says going forward there’s always new information coming.
I’d just make an observation asbestos and environmental is a general liability exposure.
The difference there is that particularly in the asbestos arena much of it came from a time when there were no policy aggregates there were per occurrence aggregates that we started on a mid basis.
I think we ended up with policy aggregate starting in the early 80s.
So that was pre dated that but liability is a policy that lasts forever you can always have things – you just never know.
Great next question please.
Thank you.
I guess question I had was on loss trend you talk about a loss trend in business insurance of roughly around 4%.
And I’m wondering is that the number you’ve priced for or is that what you are observing because seemingly what you’ve been pricing before for the past you know five years.
You’ve seen something less than that given the reserve releases.
So when you talk about that number what exactly are you referring to? Our actuaries our finance our business folks are always looking at what they think frequency and severities going to be and you know building in you know various assumptions they take into account what recent trends have been.
There’s always the question of gee if you’d seen – and make up an example if you’ve seen recent inflation running at 1% or whatever what does that mean going forward? Is it going to continue at 1% or is it going to get better is it going to get worse? So at a very granular level we’re making assumption everyday and pricing and reserving as to what the future has in store based on current events and past trends.
And when you look at the kind of environment that we’re faced with today looking at very tame inflation but some of the factors at work as to creating uncertainty as to what those inflation rates are going to be going forward.
You have to take that into account and ultimately that along with every other assumption comes down to a series of numbers for frequency and severity.
And things have been running pretty moderately but when we say there’s a 4% trend factor and you go back in time I think you’re absolutely right in saying well maybe it was actually a little less severe than we had expected.
So we had favorable development but going forward you have to make a determination as to whether that’s going to continue or whether the world is going to change.
Right so specifically Jay when we say this quarter 4% loss trend we’re talking about both what we’re seeing is trend in the current year and what we’re pricing for.
And obviously that’s an aggregate number so it’s all over the place by different lines.
As we have prior year development we’re looking at why we had that development and does that change our outlook of what the current year should be? So an example of one which usually wouldn’t would be if we had favorable development on prior year CAT we’d probably say that doesn’t – unless they were dramatic wouldn’t fundamentally change our view of CAT’s this year.
There are other things that you could obviously say would change it.
So the base year does move but its – Yeah and the most volatile part of it is non-CAT weather.
Our loss trend numbers make an assumption about non-CAT weather and that’s obviously at least I think the most unpredictable part of that loss trend dynamic it is one of the reasons why you’re hearing us relentlessly talk about upset by favorable non-CAT weather or upset by adverse non-CAT weather it’s just who knows.
On that topic you talked about non-CAT weather relative to a year-ago being worse.
Can you speak to non-CAT weather relative to a normal second quarter was this worse than you might have expected normally instead of just compared to last year versus the normal expectation.
I’ll take that and it’s a little different BI to PI so in in personal insurance we would say this quarter was the non-CAT weather was about normal.
It was a couple of points worse than last year which was abnormally low.
In BI this quarter non-CAT weather was a little bit high so about a point unfavorable to both last year which was kind of normal and what we would have expected this year.
And the difference there is especially when you get into tornado hail the the impacts in the commercial business can be really random and volatile.
Personal lines you have a storm and it hits the neighborhood and we can kind of see the claims.
In business insurance you can hit our risk or not hit our risk and it could dramatically change the number.
So that’s the perspective relative to kind of normal.
PI about normal this quarter BI a little bit worse than normal.
Great.
And this will be our last and final question.
So we talked a lot about reserves.
I was wondering if you could give us some color I know it’s the best estimate but there’s a range of different approaches across the industry.
Some companies consistently target something like a zero favorable development targets on consistently target a much larger number.
You guys just from observation seem to be sort of in the middle of the range but everybody is thinking about earnings over the next few years pricing slowing you think you’re guiding in your – in your outlooks actually talk about how underwriting margins and the underlying basis seem to be slowing and stabilizing.
I’m wondering what we should be expecting you guys truly would like to be sort of a normal level of favorable development when you think about sort of what’s your real philosophy really.
And through the cycle or look like it’d be really helpful for us? Looking at each other Jay and I my own view is that our goal is to get it right.
If we could pick the right number and first of all that’s our responsibility our obligation is to record a best estimate.
So that’s what we do we attempt to record best estimate.
And the accounting rules are critical they’re a really big deal but it’s also how you price and how you think about the returns in your business.
And where you perceive risk versus rewards.
So the importance of making it our best estimate is just critical.
We struggle to figure out how to manage the business if we were recording something other than that because we priced to that loss ratio we priced to that trend we priced to that yield curve it’s just critical for us.
So I’m sure Jay and I would say this but – give you the same answer which is our expectation sitting here today is that there won’t be any development.
We think we’ve got it right it doesn’t mean that we don’t have issues that we’re watching and aware of and you’ll ask us often about emerging trends and claims.
We keep track of all that but our goal is to get it right and so the notion of a question about a normal level of reserved development just doesn’t resonate with us.
We don’t think of it that way we don’t think there is a normal level of reserve development.
And I fully agree with that.
It’s always about best estimates; it’s always about getting it right.
I just echo what Jay says.
That’s fine.
And thank you but again I just asked the question.
This quarter seemed to slow a little bit the competition was – I think you talked about some good guys and bad guys I was very was obviously a good news and then there were some environmental.
Is there anything that we can infer from the lower PI favorable development and the lower personal lines favorable development that we should look at as a forward leading indicator or is the process still the same and should we look back over the average and make our own conclusions? Well we try to give you as much information as we can with regard to what the drivers of favorable development are.
So in the case of PI do you think about the first quarter a lot of it dealt with weather related losses both CAT and non-CAT and we had some additional non-CAT weather related losses that turned out to be more favorable.
And business insurance you just mentioned of the level of favorable development was 25 but that was after the environmental.
So if you just look at the numbers you’ve got a storyline that over the last many years has provided insight as to what are the drivers of it and we’ll see just how those drivers or others manifest themselves moving forward but I don’t think there’s more that we have to offer that relates to that.
We try to be pretty transparent very transparent.
Very good that will conclude our calls today.
Thank you very much for joining us and as always Andrew Hersom and I and in Investor Relations will be available for any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen welcome to the third quarter results teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on October the 21<sup>st</sup> 2014.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Julian.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our third quarter 2014 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and our webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Alan Schnitzer Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Business and International Insurance; and Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Claim Personal Insurance and Bond and Specialty Insurance.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I’d like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As I’m sure you’ve read the results this quarter were just terrific as demonstrated by our operating returning on equity of 15.2%.
In addition to posting very strong financial results the underlying dynamics in our businesses are showing very solid performance and give us continued optimism about our future financial results.
Starting with Personal Insurance Quantum 2.0 is proving to be a real success.
New auto business is a clean double from last year’s third quarter and loss experience well still early is very much consistent with our original plans.
Retention on our entire auto book remains high on a sequential quarter basis total auto policies enforce increased for the first time since the second quarter of 2011 and we expect to see sequential policy growth again in the fourth quarter.
Lastly and positively we believe our homeowners business is actually showing some lift from Quantum auto.
In our Business Insurance segment its business as usual.
We continue to achieve rate gains were needed and we see no fundamental change in the competitive environment that is trends remain generally the same.
Retention is actually up in almost all of the business units and we remain optimistic about our ability to continue to successfully execute our granular pricing strategy and achieve improving returns.
In our Bond and Specialty Insurance business we couldn’t be more pleased we’ve navigated through the financial crisis in the great recession as successfully as we have as evidenced by consistently strong results.
This performance demonstrates the underwriting thoughtfulness and skill that are such a part of the fabric of our organization.
And we’re particularly proud of our investment department performance in a challenging environment they’ve maintained their investment criteria and done the right things another example of our discipline.
Well it’s always nice to post a strong quarter; I think it’s important to remember that we’re committed to running this organization successfully over the long-term.
This results that we posted this morning were driven by decisions made years ago that have been translated to successful marketplace strategies.
Our long-term performance is really the result of [indiscernible] analysis our commitment to analytics insightful discipline applied to a risk taking business and to be candid a little bit of good fortune.
Our energy is going to be committed to two things first more of the same first rate execution of thoughtful data drive strategies; second notwithstanding the more of the same approach we are also committed to challenging our own conventional wisdoms to identify opportunities and making the decisions today that are necessary perhaps even critical to making sure that our financial performance remains top tier.
In addition to hearing from Jay and Brian this morning Alan and Doreen will provide the commentary on the performance of their business segments.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
We were very pleased with our results this quarter with operating income per diluted share of $2.61 and an operating ROE of 15.2% driven by very strong underwriting and investment results.
Underwriting results benefited from a slightly lower level of catastrophe losses this quarter $83 million pretax is compared to $99 million pretax in the prior year quarter.
In contrast to the lower level of cats we incurred higher non-cat weather related losses this quarter as compared to the prior year quarter which more than offset the benefit of earned pricing increases that exceeded loss cost trends in each of our business segments and drove a slight 0.5 point uptick in our underlying combined ratio.
Underwriting results also benefited from net favorable prior year reserve development of a $113 million pretax down from a $158 million pretax in the prior year quarter.
Current quarter net favorable prior year reserve development included a $250 million pretax increase to our [indiscernible] reserves driven mostly by increases in the company’s estimate of projected settlement and defense cost related to a broad number of policyholders due to a higher level of litigation activities surrounding mesothelioma claims than we’ve previously anticipated.
As well as a $77 million pretax increase in our ULAE reserves that the accrual of interest resulting from a recent court decision relating to the asbestos direct action litigation.
On the positive side current quarter reserve development included a $64 million pretax benefit resulting from better than expected loss experience related to an old workers compensation reinsurance pool that we participated in along with another pretax benefit of $98 million that resulted from the final commutation of assumed and ceded reinsurance treaties associated with that pool.
Current quarter reserve development also benefited from better than expected loss experience in GL property and fidelity and surety in recent accident years.
And year-to-date on a combined stat basis for all of our subs and excluding A&amp;E all accident years developed favorably.
Overtime we’ve generated much more capital than what is needed to support our business.
This has allowed us to return over $900 million of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter we pay dividend of a $186 million and repurchase $751 million of our common shares consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy.
And year-to-date we returned almost $2.9 billion of excess capital to our shareholders with dividends of $553 million and common share repurchases of $2.3 billion.
Shifting from the current year; let me provide a historical view of how our capital management strategy is performed over time.
The Board of Directors initiated the current share repurchase program on May 2<sup>nd</sup> 2006 a little over 8 years ago.
On May 1<sup>st</sup> 2006 the day before the board authorization Travelers market capital was $30.2 billion and we had approximately 696 million shares outstanding.
Since that time we’ve repurchased over 416 million shares at an average price of $56.50 per share issued a net amount of approximately 51 million shares mostly in connection with share-based incentive comp awards and now have 331 million shares outstanding at the end of the current quarter a 52% reduction in our common shares.
And if you add in the dividends that we paid during this time period we’ve returned approximately 98% of our May 1 2006 market cap to our shareholders.
We accomplish this all throughout this period while maintaining capital and support of strategic business opportunities such as those in Brazil and Canada very strong holding company liquidity and modest debt levels.
Notably our ratings increased during this time period from already very high levels to industry leading levels.
And even after returning all of this capital to our shareholders our market cap stands at $31.6 billion today.
Operating cash flows of over a $1.8 billion we’re extremely strong this quarter bringing total operating cash flows almost $3.2 billion year-to-date.
We ended the quarter with holding company liquidity of almost $1.9 billion and all of our capital ratios were at or better than their target levels.
Our debt-to-total capital ratio of 21.3% was lower than its target range and during the quarter book value per share increased 1% and adjusted book value per share which excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses increased 2% while year-to-date book value per share increased 9% and adjusted book value per share increased 6%.
Finally net unrealized investment gains were approximately $2.9 billion at the end of the third quarter as compared to $2 billion at the beginning of the year.
With that let me turn things over to Brian.
Thanks Jay.
Before Alan and Doreen go over the segment results I would like to give some perspective on how we view the overall market.
And to do that I will start with returns.
We are a return-focused company and as such we are pleased with our reported ROE for the quarter and year-to-date.
We are especially pleased that we were able to deliver these results and what continues to be a very challenging investment environment one where 10-year Treasury yields continue to hover between 2% and 2.5%.
When we look at our returns below this aggregate level we are also encouraged.
To understand our product profitability we look at accident year returns at the line level; and at this more detailed level we are very pleased both with the improvement that we have seen over the last several years and with the absolute level that those returns are at today.
There are obviously differences line by line but overall we continue to see signs of a rational marketplace.
Doreen and Alan will go through the segment production statistics but as we analyze our results at a very granular level we see that we continue to be successful in executing our pricing strategy which is to retain a high percentage of our best business improve profitability where needed and write new business that meets our target returns.
I don’t have a crystal ball and I am not predicting the future but based on what we see today there is nothing in the market that would cause our ability to continue to execute on this pricing strategy to be meaningfully changed.
We are also encouraged that as overall returns have become more consistent with our long-term objective we have begun to see improving top line trends.
We have said many times that volume is never our goal but that we always seek opportunities to add business that meets our target returns.
We have seen improved retention across most of the businesses and higher new business volume in many of them and we believe that these trends are the result of our strategic focus on delivering meaningful and sustainable competitive advantages in the markets we serve.
So overall through the first 9 months of 2014 fairly stable market conditions and very strong underwriting results.
And with that I will turn it over to Alan.
Thank you Brian and good morning.
In Business and International Insurance third quarter operating income was $552 million.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats and prior-year reserve development was 94.9 for the quarter up 1.7 points over the prior year.
The 1.7-point change resulted from an increase of 2 points largely from non-cat weather in both our domestic and international businesses as well as the impact of the inclusion of The Dominion partially offset by the favorable impact of about 1 point from earned price exceeding lost trend.
We also saw a modest uptick in our expense ratio mostly attributable to a favorable item in 2013.
Turning to production trends for domestic BI compared to the second quarter overall retention was up about 1 point and total renewal premium change was up slightly as the increasing exposure more than offset a lower level of positive rate change.
Year-over-year new business was about flat.
In Select we were pleased to see an improvement in retention to just over 80% with total renewal premium change of nearly 9%.
We wrote $92 million of new business representing a 5% increase over the same period last year.
In middle market as a greater percentage of the business has achieved attractive returns we have increased our focus on keeping the better -performing accounts.
Accordingly we were pleased to have achieved a 2-point increase in retention to a very strong 85% with positive rate change declining less than 0.5 point and each case is compared to the most recent quarter.
Lastly new business of $236 million for the quarter grew by nearly 10% as compared to the same period last year.
Overall we feel very good about the production results; but as you’ve heard from us many times in recent quarters the aggregate numbers don’t tell the entire story.
The detail of where we are getting rate and which accounts we are retaining is key to evaluating the success of our production strategy.
In our middle-market businesses the data beneath these exhibits shows that on our best-performing business our retention has improved to around 90% and we continue to achieve slightly positive rate increases.
On our poorest-performing accounts we are achieving low double-digit rate increases with meaningfully lower retention.
These results are consistent with our marketplace strategy.
Looking at production results for our International business retention remains strong.
Renewal premium change was down somewhat from recent quarters due primarily to lower rate and exposures in Lloyd’s; and new business was up from the prior year due to the acquisition of The Dominion.
Before I turn it over to Doreen I would like to make an observation about margins.
Many industry observers seem to focus overly so in our view on the relationship between written rate change and lost trend.
Particularly with rate change for the quarter of 3.3 points dipping just below our current estimate of loss trend which is about 4 points in the aggregate I would like to point out that underwriting margins are impacted by a number of other factors including changes in exposure underwriting actions business mix the impact of new business weather and so on.
So particularly with written rate and loss trend in such a narrow band we’d caution you against drawing conclusions about the outlook for underwriting margins based solely on those measures.
To wrap it up I am pleased with our strong results for the quarter.
And in terms of execution going forward we intend to pursue more of the same.
And with that let me turn it over to Doreen.
Thank you Alan.
I would like to begin by saying how excited I am to again work with Tom Kunkel and his leadership team in managing our market-leading Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance business.
Also I am really proud of the progress we’ve made in Personal Insurance and look forward to continuing to work with Greg Toczydlowski and his team.
Now for the results.
In the Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance segment operating income of $165 million was 38% higher than the prior-year quarter.
The increase was driven by higher levels of favorable prior-year reserve development along with improved underlying underwriting margin.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was a very strong 81.7% a 4-point improvement from the prior year primarily due to exiting our management liability excess-of-loss reinsurance treaty as well as earned pricing in excess of loss cost trend across the segment.
Net written premium for the quarter was $556 million an increase of 1% compared to the prior year.
Across our management liability businesses retention of 84% was consistent with recent periods in the prior year while new business of $34 million was down slightly from recent periods.
Renewal premium change which can be somewhat lumpy due to variations in things like limits written liability attachment points and policy duration was 4.6% for the quarter up somewhat from the second quarter.
In sum strong profitability through Bond &amp; Specialty’s continued underwriting discipline and market leadership.
Turning to Personal Insurance operating income of $239 million for the quarter was down 9% compared to the third quarter of 2013 driven by lower favorable prior-year reserve development in Homeowners.
The underlying combined ratio was 84% in the quarter an improvement from 2013 of more than 1 point primarily due to the benefits of earned pricing that exceeded loss cost trends our previously announced expense-reduction initiative and lower Homeowners commissions partially offset by a higher mix of new business.
As it relates to our expense reduction to-date we have executed on initiatives responsible for about 90% of the $140 million run-rate savings target.
As we have mentioned in the past about half of these reductions relate to claim management expenses the impact of which shows up in the loss ratio.
We remain on track to achieve the full run-rate savings by the end of this year in line with our original expectation.
Looking at agency Auto retention remained strong at 82% while renewal premium change was about 6%.
We also are extremely pleased with the progress we have made on new business production driven by the impact that Quantum Auto 2.0 is having.
New business premium of $166 million is more than double the third quarter of 2013 with 90% of the $166 million coming from Quantum 2.0.
This increase in new business drove a year-over-year increase in net written premium of 3%.
And as Jay noted policies in force increased from the most recent quarter for the first time since the second quarter of 2011.
As for the rollout Quantum 2.0 is now live in all but a handful of prior Quantum states; and our expectation is that these remaining states will go live over the next quarter or two.
Turning to agency Auto profitability the underlying combined ratio of 96.1% for the quarter was an improvement of 1.5 points over the prior year driven primarily by the expense initiatives and earned pricing that exceeded loss cost trends partially offset by the impact from higher new business volume.
Our current view of overall Auto loss cost trend is about 3% a slight improvement from what we communicated in recent quarters driven by some moderation in bodily injury severity and looking at the improvements in revenue and profitability we believe our fundamental changes have made our auto product more competitive.
Looking at agency homeowners and others production was strong in the quarter with renewal premium change of about 6% while retention remained at 84%.
New business volume of $95 million was up about 30% from the prior year quarter due to some lift from higher volumes in Quantum 2.0 overall home production is in line with our expectation.
From the profitability perspective the underlying combined ratio of 70.1% was an improvement of 1.5 over the third quarter of 2013 driven by earned pricing that exceeded loss cost trend as well as lower expenses.
So overall in personal insurance a great quarter with both strong financial results and production metrics and we remain pleased with the results of the Quantum 2.0 overall so far.
And with that I’ll turn the call back to Gabi.
Thank you.
Julian we’re now ready for the Q&amp;A portion.
I would ask participants to please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Your line is now open; please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
I want to touch base on exposure growth in business insurance.
It appears to be accelerating in the middle market commercial business and select is showing more stable growth.
Can you talk about the differences that are driving that? Yes the difference in middle market versus select? Yes in terms of – the rate of change in exposure growth being stronger in middle market than select? Yes the exposure in fact really isn’t from sales and payroll its – and if you look at look at the starting and ending point you’re probably looking at the webcast.
If you look at the starting and ending points it’s actually a pretty straight line from those two end points.
The way we calculate the number the impact of audit premium creates a different quarter to after we report exposures in particularly in the middle market.
And so we would expect that to develop over time into more of a straight line.
I think – this is Brian; the other point on select lot of that exposure growth is values on the property component of C&amp;P.
And that’s been an affirmative effort on our part to try to improve the values.
Okay.
So any other underlying difference in terms of exposure growth on the small business versus middle market? No there isn’t really other than on the small side we’ve really been working on the – the insurance to values and in middle market it really is a function of how we account for the audit premium in the exposures.
Okay.
And then I had a separate question on capital return so year-to-date if my math is right share buybacks plus dividends are $2.9 billion operating income $2.6 billion so clearly capital return running well ahead of operating income on the order around 110%.
Can you give and you had a prior comment also saying that there is a continued level of excess capital being generated.
I don’t know if you would care to update us on the capital management strategy in terms of could that that gap between capital return on operating income continue to grow over time similar to what we’ve seen this year? Hi Jay this is Jay Benet.
Thanks for asking that question.
What you’re really seeing is a timing difference in the generation of the excess capital versus the timeframe in what is purchased its repurchased.
So and we look at particularly year like 2014 one of the things you have to take into account is how did the end of 2013 come out and it was a very strong fourth quarter and we did our year end capital calculations we found that we had some excess capital that we carried into this year.
So we’re playing a little bit of catch up now but there is no change in strategy there is no change in execution.
It really goes back to the words that we used to describe the program which is we’re generating it over time primarily through income and maintaining the capital we need to support our businesses.
So that the ratings are maintained and the posture of the balance sheet doesn’t change.
And then to the extent we have the excess capital that’s getting generating we’re buying that over time.
But it’s really it’s really driven by earnings.
And you have to look at it more broadly than just a nine month period.
Okay so based on that we should still generally think about buybacks and dividends being roughly equal to annual operating earnings? I’m not saying that’s roughly equal in our 10-Q and 10-K we talk about having enough capital to support the growth in the business occasionally we make pension contributions to a qualified pension plan so there are other things that will utilize capital in the place.
But the creation of capital is from the earnings.
Thank you.
Thank you next question please.
Our next comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open please proceed with your question.
Great thanks just a couple of question in terms of the auto business.
We’re trying to figure out you talked about 6% rate increases and we’re trying to square that with the rate declines that you’ve taken and talked about taking on the Quantum business that you’ve repriced.
Can you help sort of square those two things? Michael this is Doreen.
Are you looking at the webcast with renewal premiums change? Yes.
It would be and also our existing book on the renewal book of business.
Okay.
So for a business that you are Quantum is for new business only is that so that’s your okay.
Quantum 2.0 is for new business only.
Got it okay that makes sense.
And then one question on just on business insurance kind of looking at the margins there and what is how much of an impact the year-over-year comparison does Dominion having if at all? And how should we think about I trying to – I know you mentioned some non-cat weather but just trying to parse out sort of rate versus loss trend in underlying margin? Thanks.
Hi its Alan Schnitzer.
On the Dominion as we get – as we get sort of year end post close we’re going to try to resist the temptation to breakout the impact of that in particular.
I will tell you that at least in the current period it’s leaving out the unusual weather that we’ve had in Canada the hailstorm in Alberta and floods in Toronto.
But leaving that out the Dominion was probably about a half a point on the loss ratio a couple tens on the expense ratio.
But we’d really like to move away from quantifying the impacts of that transaction just gets harder and harder to do as we enter there.
Sorry and its Gabi just to be clear that’s because it wasn’t in the prior quarter he is not setting a level of Dominion.
That’s right.
Got it okay.
Okay thank you.
Great next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open please proceed with your question.
Good morning and thanks for taking my call.
Just on the margin just to follow on that is that you mentioned some non-cat largely like a weather related losses.
Is that how much if you can quantify that in terms of how much that to track on the 50 basis point deterioration year-over-year and also is that a pattern where I have seen in the past few quarters because I guess your peers reported some sort of non-cat large losses in past few quarters as well? We’ve been observing for a couple of years with that the weather seems to be getting more extreme and so this is – is consistent with what we’ve been seeing over couple of years in quarter weather was worth something like a point and a half on the delta.
Its Jay Benet I would add to that when you’re asking are there trends involved we are always going to have quarter-over-quarter differences associated with things like non-cat weather or large losses what we’re trying to do is point that out to give you some insight into what’s taking place.
But I wouldn’t say that in all cases when we say the weather is higher it means the weather was terrible I mean it’s just higher than it was last year.
So I wouldn’t call this a really bad weather quarter but last year’s third quarter was actually a little on the favorable side.
That’s great.
My second question is on the reinsurance side.
Just given what’s happening in the marketplace in reinsurance basic pricing coming down various alternative solutions and just wonder what is your overall reinsurance strategy.
Are you thinking about setting up some alternative structure including internal or captive reinsurers? Hi it’s Jay Fishman.
We are certainly looking at everything.
There’s obviously a lot of activity in that space.
We are not a big utilizer of reinsurance broadly speaking.
When you look at the amount of ceded premium that we put out to the marketplace it really isn’t enough to jump through a lot of hoops and incur a lot of cost to create something that looks snappy but doesn’t really accomplish much financially.
So that doesn’t mean we are giving up.
I am mindful of the fact that it is getting a tremendous amount of attention so I have actually been spending some of my own time in making sure I can actually understand it and make sense of it.
So far without a lot of effect to be completely blunt with you; but we will obviously keep looking.
I don’t anticipate for us – not to say that somebody else.
I don’t anticipate that the change in reinsurance pricing in any broad measure will have a meaningful impact on us.
Again not because – for example our property cat treaty wasn’t less expensive; it was.
But it is just not enough on a premium base of our size to make a substantial difference.
I have also been asked whether we would be interested in building a book of business and in effect arbitraging it against the reinsurance opportunity.
And I am always mindful that when you take on a risk on the right side of your balance sheet there is some permanence to it; and the reinsurance profile on the left may or may not be permanent.
And you’ve got to be very cautious and careful about not finding yourself in an unreinsured position or in a mismatch which can happen and has happened.
I think back to September 11 and what a bunch of reinsurers did shortly in the days thereafter; and lots of us found ourselves with primary exposure without underlying reinsurance to cover.
So there is a lot of moving parts here and we are sure looking at it pretty hard.
But so far I would say nothing that really excites me at least a great deal.
Thank you so much for the answers.
Michael let me just clarify just so we pull these two questions together and don’t leave any confusion here.
What we said was there was about a 2-point increase in the combined ratio due to both weather and The Dominion.
That was 2 points all in; about 1.5 point of that is weather and about 0.5 point of it is Dominion.
And again just speak to direction please.
Increase.
An increase of 1.5 point due to weather and an increase of 0.5 point due to Dominion.
That’s right.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith from Evercore.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
The first question is on pricing and loss cost trends.
I believe you said not to focus too much on pricing being up at about 3.3% and loss cost trend at about 4%.
But just thinking about it at a 50 000-foot level should we expect a small amount of margin compression next year and also looking at the loss cost trends if you could help us understand.
I mean peers are looking at loss cost trend in the 2% to 3% range; your 4% number seems a little bit high.
Just wondering if there is some amount of conservatism in that.
Well I think perhaps we will split the question between myself and Alan.
First the reason that we are just cautioning against evaluating 3.3% versus 4% is that that arithmetic is pretty easy to do but doesn’t take into account all of the factors that affect the profitability of our business.
We have reminded people frequently that a not insignificant amount of exposure base – particularly for example in our small commercial business will act as an increase in rate absent a change in loss profile.
As an example to the extent we collect more premium due to inflation adjustments on property unless the loss exceeds what would have been the previous total insured value level that increase in exposure functions exactly the same as rate.
And so it is easy to talk about a widening margin and I am going to make up numbers here.
It’s easy to talk about it when you’ve got to make up a number 7% rate and 4% loss trend.
And I suspect it would be easy if we were talking about 1% rate and 3% loss trend.
But in and around the number it is just not that precise to conclude that within 7/10 of a point that margins will necessarily contract or not contract.
Candidly I am not – our 10-Q is going to say in Business Insurance or does; I don’t know if we filed it this morning; we did file it – says that we anticipate margins to be flat equivalent in Business Insurance into 2015.
And that is our best judgment at the moment.
It’s what’s funny people seem to think that there is a stunning amount of difference between talking about plus 0.2 versus minus 0.2 but they understand that there is no big difference between plus 2.2 and plus 1.8.
It is the same 4/10; it just happens to be around a different baseline number.
So our caution is simply to let you know that notwithstanding all of our analytical skill and insight into the numbers this is getting pretty precise to make arithmetic calculations based on these numbers.
We just caution against it.
On the second question on loss trend hard for us to comment on anybody else’s loss trend.
But I would suggest you might want to look at mix.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Just as a follow-up the Homeowners commission expense ratio was low.
I was just curious to why that was.
Thanks.
Can you repeat the question please? I couldn’t hear it.
I’m sorry.
Sorry.
On the Homeowners I believe the commission expense ratio was lower this year versus last year.
I was just curious why.
We did reduce the Homeowners commission rates.
Yes; we implemented those in probably the middle of 2013 maybe a little bit earlier than that.
And some of the expense initiatives we had from – relative to Quantum was also impacting Homeowners.
Well the – yes exactly.
So about 25% of our expense reductions fell to the Homeowners line.
But the Homeowners commission expense number fell because of a change in the rate that we pay on Homeowners business.
We implemented that again in the middle of 2013.
That is the driving factor there.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes just a couple of questions.
I guess maybe the first quick one for Doreen.
You had mentioned I think it was the Specialty and professional liability business that you had changed your reinsurance session there and that helped earnings.
Can you talk a little bit more about that? And then separately asbestos.
Surprised no one has asked you yet about it but another very sizable charge.
Can you talk about really what you are seeing there now? It just feels as if this is an annual sizable charge and you’re almost going on a pay-as-you-go basis and we should almost expect this kind of charge going forward.
I am wondering if you can give more insight into the asbestos.
This is Doreen.
I will talk first about the Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance reinsurance treaty and then I will turn it over to Jay Benet for asbestos.
But as I think we reported in the past the decision was made to exit from our management liability excess-of-loss reinsurance treaty; and that decision was made at the end of 2013.
And essentially what you are seeing is that as we looked at our book of business both from a limit standpoint the quality of the underwriting we just felt like the ceded premium didn’t make sense given the performance of the book.
And so if you were to look at the underlying combined ratio being up about 4 points it is about 3 of that underlying improvement.
And it is really just looking at what premium you wanted to pay for your loss content.
So a great decision was made and we see it in the results.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Doreen.
Hi Jay; it’s Jay.
As it relates to asbestos as you know we follow this very closely every quarter and we supplement the quarterly procedures with what we refer to is the very in-depth claim study that gets done annually and we’ve completing it in the third quarter.
So what’s going on with the data first of all every time we put an asbestos reserve it’s our best asbestos of what the totality of losses will be and as you know there are pages and pages in our 10-K and 10-Q describing all the uncertainties associated with asbestos and what’s taking place we’re not taking place in the environment.
So in terms of the overall environment I’d remind everybody that we’ve had the asbestos exclusion in our policies for decades at this point the product is in use the way it its formally used decades ago.
And the assumptions that we’ve build in to the reserves are that there will be tailing off claims over time based on the ageing population and all the other dynamics to go along with that.
So we are making these estimates and then periodically looking to see are the estimates holding up in terms of the data that’s emerging.
And what’s been happening in the last couple of years and we can come up with anecdotes to perhaps why it’s happening but what keeps happening over time is that our estimates which are the best estimates of the point in time are proving to a little short as new information emerges.
And in talking to our claim people who deal at this and asking the ageing question why doesn’t this stuff drop off at the rate that we had expected some of the anecdotal answers tend to be and I underscore anecdotal that well perhaps we have a situation where years ago given where general medicine was at that point people were dying of different things like heart attacks or forms of cancers and with medical advances perhaps living longer and by living longer and not buying of those particular diseases mesothelioma might develop and suddenly now you have an asbestos claim.
So part of this is the estimation process part of this is just trying to understand the trends that are going on but I welcome the day when we can all watch a sporting event and not to see a point of certainty adds you know saying if you ever heard the word mesothelioma call this number.
But that’s the environment but I will say that there isn’t a fundamental change in the environment that it’s not new theories or anything like that its more matter of trying to estimate what’s actually out there.
I hope that was helpful.
Yes that was helpful Jay thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Greenberg of Janney Capital.
Your line is now open please proceed with your question.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
I respect that you don’t want to get into too much detail on Dominion but given the fourth quarter will be the first where we’re on an apples-to-apples basis it would be helpful to just know what Dominion is growing at organically and I think when you did the deal you expected it to be modestly accretive to 2014 and I’m wondering if that’s coming to fruition? Larry it Alan I’m just trying to process the questions here.
In terms of on Dominion I should just take a step back and say that we’re very pleased with the transaction the integration is going very well they are very pleased with the local team in Canada and the way the two teams are integrating and very pleased with the way that the both teams in Canada and our U.S.
businesses are integrating.
So I should really start off and I think this is the important message about the Dominion its going very well there is no surprises and we’re enthusiastic about the deal today as we were and we signed.
And let me just add in because it’s a great time to do it.
I’m not insignificant a portion of the rationale here was to export and make available in the Canadian marketplace product and expertise that we had here in the U.S.
that had not been developed up in Canada that is still very much the plan.
So we are at the early days here we’re very much at the early days I’m sorry but that was helpful.
Larry in terms of your specific questions I think we’d really prefer on a business’s size probably not to go down to that level of detail other than to say it’s on track there is whenever you do a deal of this size there is always some surprises that are a little bit good and a little bit bad that all of those are within the range of expectations and we’re very very pleased with the transaction.
Okay fair enough.
Okay next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Copersino from Columbia Management.
Your line is now open please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you all had available or were willing to share for the bond and specialty segment and for the personal segment.
We have the renewal premium change in the slide deck I was curious if you are able to give us the rate changes specifically? It operates on – Brian and I will chat here but those businesses in particular it’s really quite difficult to parse the rate change and renewal premium change because they operate so much together.
For example the policy limits right so if you got an inflation element in the underlying property for example that’s going to well shift premium but that happens in many cases in effect automatically.
So we don’t – we don’t track rate and renewal premium change at the granular level that we can in other businesses to provide that breakout.
It’s not that it’s not an appropriate question it’s with the business dynamics under it operate differently.
And therefore really can’t be parsed with quite as much precision.
And this is Doreen.
We do look at it to Jay’s point but we find the combination of them with renewal premium change to be the more meaningful way to look at the business.
And we’d never really disclose that level.
So we can look at it but we just don’t want to make sure… In most yes in most cases in our personal lines of business the fundamental exposure is not changing and it is the total price change that is really reflective.
And Doreen you could talk about the Bond.
You can get you get changes but we just don’t parse at that level.
Bond? On the Bond side I would say and we’ve talked a little bit about the in management liability in particular on RPC and rate such as again the Jay’s point of combined concept of what the limits are the attachment point the term of the policy so we look at them blended together.
It’s not that we don’t look at them or we just its more meaningful to combine them for us for the business performance.
Okay well thank you all.
I appreciate it.
Great next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your line is now open please proceed with your question.
Okay great thanks.
Good morning.
Doreen as there been any change in the competitive environment for personal lines specifically auto over the course of the year? What we’ve seen and we’ve watched this pretty closely to see particularly with our commission changes and Quantum 2.0 what’s going on out there.
And I would say in the independent agency channel we’ve seen some very targeted but not broad follows in terms of a little bit of people changing commission a little bit of targeting specifically on price reductions.
What we haven’t seen in that channel is anybody really address broadly the cost structure.
And so no it’s not a major change we just continue to watch it.
Okay that good news.
Jay you talked earlier about the other factors that can drive margin improvement aside from the gap between rate increases and lost cost trends.
I was wondering are those other issues is that expected trends changes it all? Meyer I don’t is that – is that expected trend changing it all help me I don’t understand quite the question.
I’m asking it for the if the impact of other factors besides the rate loss trend gap and its impact on margin expansion is that given the improvements you’ve had so far for example in the granularity of pricing and so on should we expect less margin expansion from those other factors going forward that we have for the last couple of years? I got it.
The answer is I sure don’t think so.
The reason for the caution is simply because it would be I think inappropriate to leap to a conclusion that 4% versus 3.3% will in effect by definition result in a narrowing margin.
It may; I am not saying it’s not.
But there are other factors that go into whether the margin gets bigger or smaller and you are in the range now of the gap between these two numbers that is loss trend and rate to be such that these other factors which always operate they always operate could actually produce a different outcome than the simple arithmetic would demonstrate.
And again the example I used before with a rate of 7% and loss trend of 4% this is just a loss treat of only [indiscernible].
It is an easy call.
And with loss trend of 4% and rate of 1% it would also be an easy call.
But you are at a range now where it is not an easy call.
I am not saying from the outside looking in by the way; I am saying even from the inside it is not an easy call to absolutely say it is going to expand or it is going to contract.
It is on the line in effect right now and we don’t know how to be any more precise than we are being with you.
This is as good as we have to offer.
Okay.
I understand.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Newsome from Sandler O’Neill &amp; Partners.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Thank you and congratulations on the quarter.
Just recently I was doing an agent tour and they were talking about a little bit more aggressiveness in the spread between new business and old – and renewal business on the commercial business.
I wanted to see if you perceived any change there in that either in Travelers or in the marketplace.
Hey Paul it’s Alan.
Let me comment on us; and I am not sure we are going to comment more broadly on the market.
But it’s always dangerous I think to take one conversation with an agent and extrapolate from that.
I would say from our data we see that over the last couple of years seven or eight quarters there has been a pretty consistent gap between new and renewal.
But if you look back over a longer period of time I would say that gap is reasonably tight at the moment on a longer-term view.
Then as a separate question it has been a long time since we have talked about some of the direct channels and other experimentation that you have been working on over several years.
I would like to know if Quantum 2 is sort of where we are at with respect to what we are looking at for the future of Travelers for the next couple years or if there are some ongoing efforts still to build out other channels.
This is Doreen; I will just speak to that.
So I will tell you that Quantum 2 is definitely a positive for direct-to-consumer as well as the agency channel.
It was a product that we thought would be attractive across channels.
So as we look at our metrics around conversion and sales we believe that Quantum 2 has definitely had a positive in that.
In addition to that we always look for process improvements.
We have also been very focused on looking at digital marketing and how to use our dollars in a very targeted way for direct.
We also have plans and I think we have talked to all of you in the past.
This is not just direct but we will continue to look at where we can enhance the property products as well as looking at how we bring accounts together; and that will be both a benefit for the agency channel as well as direct.
Great.
Thanks for the answers.
Great.
And this is our last question.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from the line of Josh Stirling from Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning and thank you.
Congratulations on a great quarter and thanks for fitting me in.
So Jay pricing has been slowing.
It’s come off what 3% in the past year; and if you simplistically project forward another year at last year’s pace pricing probably would be zero or maybe even a slight decline.
And so I think big picture we are all just trying to figure out whether the industry’s pricing decline is going to stop at something like inflation.
Does it go to zero or does it go negative? I recognize you guys don’t want to talk about other companies.
But to keep it focused on Travelers if I understand all the back and forth around the margin outlook and Alan’s comments I think you’re basically saying that you will keep pricing more or less in line with inflation over the next year or so.
Is that right? Well I can certainly tell you what our strategy is.
I have no problem sharing that.
And obviously the ability to execute in a business environment – we may succeed; we may not.
We haven’t changed anything about the way we are approaching individual accounts.
I remind everybody of this all the time.
Right now there is an underwriter in Kansas City right now who is sitting with an agent having a conversation about one account.
And they are not thinking about the overall market; they are not thinking about inflation.
They are thinking about the return on that account and how do I improve it.
So you’ve got to start with the premise that this really does start at the bottom and work its way up.
As accounts have become – as increasing number of accounts have now had several years of increases and are now producing profitability returns however you like to look at it that really fall into the boy we are glad we have that account category we ask our people to be thoughtful to be judicious about the way they approach every individual account.
It doesn’t have to be a straight line.
It can be a stair step.
It can be driven by the local market.
It can be driven by the relationship with an agent.
It can be driven by the size of the book that we have with the agent.
It can be driven by whether there has been claim problems or not on that account.
All of those things go into the pricing of an individual account.
Now what we are trying to get to is a point where over time – we come back to over time all the time that we manage to offset the impact of loss cost by either rising prices or self-help through efficiency or expense reduction.
And I point to the kinds of things that Greg Toczydlowski and the group have done in Personal Insurance.
That dollar saved in expense is as good as a dollar raised at the point-of-sale in rate in fact arguably even better.
And now I will speak really just personally because I am not sure I am speaking for the whole place.
I am hopeful maybe even cautiously optimistic that we will not – and I said this by the way 10 years ago – maybe not 10 maybe 8 years ago.
I personally believe that the property and casualty business will have a meaningfully lower level of cyclicality.
Never said zero but always said a less lower amplitude of that cyclicality.
There are a host of reasons why I believe that.
Analytics and data are just one but a very important one.
And I think it has proven on the way down before we entered into this cycle.
I think it has been proven here on the way up.
I am hopeful maybe even optimistic that that will turn out to be true on the way down.
We don’t see anything in the way in which business is done at the point of sale in the market that would suggest that we are at a precipice that would suggest that something fundamentally is going to change next month next quarter or frankly even next year.
Now we could be dead wrong about all this; it’s possible we could be dead wrong.
But we are focused on over time maintaining our margins.
It doesn’t mean that an individual account has to have a price increase every year.
It doesn’t mean that in a quarter the rate won’t come under loss trend.
I would like to know where the mix of business is that is coming up for renewal.
The answer to success for us is in the granular analysis more than the headline numbers.
So that’s honestly how – we’re never anything but honest – but that is how we see the marketplace environment.
That is how we intend to operate.
We will see if it sustainable.
Again I am hopeful and maybe even optimistic.
There is a thoughtfulness.
We understand – but we are not unique in this – we certainly understand the world of risk-taking.
I have a lot of respect for a lot of other companies out there because I see how they operate and they also have a great respect for risk-taking.
And that I think is kind of different than it was perhaps 15 years ago.
There is a different level I think of understanding and perception of what it means to commit your shareholders’ capital to a risk or a series of risks and turn out to be dead wrong.
And I think there is a healthy regard for that and that has resulted in a set of industry-wide better analytics better risk-taking profile that I think by the way is good for the customer; I think it is good for the agent; and I think it is good for the markets.
Wild cyclicality up or down is actually bad for everybody.
And better insight better data better analytics is actually better for everybody.
You get better analysis you get better more thoughtful pricing related to risk.
So that is a somewhat fulsome answer but that is how I feel about it.
That’s really helpful Jay.
I guess just one other question.
Related to the personal lines business you guys have made big inroads with Quantum 2 sort of stabilizing your volumes there getting a more competitive product to market.
I am wondering what your plans are for Homeowners.
It’s been – a decade ago probably wasn’t a very good business but it sure seems like a very profitable one now.
But it has been shrinking for many years.
I am wondering what – when maybe we see you guys turn the corner there and start to use it as a growth engine.
Thank you.
I’m going to ask Doreen to answer.
But just because I am allowed to be so proud of what the organization has done.
So as far back as we see the data having I will say integrity and that is at least 10 years and maybe more on a comparable basis we have had 1 year in our Homeowners business with a combined ratio over 100 and that was 2011.
That was the Joplin storms and the Tuscaloosa storms.
So whether it was Ike Gustav and Dolly or Rita Katrina Wilma it didn’t matter.
The way that business – actually I will come back to my previous comment about risk-taking.
I am just so proud candidly of the way that whole organization has operated and thought about risk-taking.
So we love the business and it has been a terrific performer for us.
And actually I personally think in the future as the potentials shift between Auto and Homeowners I think it could very well do some shifting over the next 10 years.
I love where we are; but with that Doreen you can take the rest.
Oh thank you.
And obviously following on what Jay said I will tell you that we spent and it goes back to I think one of the earlier questions just about looking at weather.
You probably recall we looked at pricing we looked at underwriting we looked at concentration and we feel really that we are operating now from a position of really great returns.
And we see that when we have a competitive Auto product that also helps drive Home and we are going to look for those opportunities where we can tune the product so that in those areas that we think it makes sense to grow that we will.
So again we weren’t planning just we talked about Auto where we thought we were going to be flat to comparing ourselves fourth quarter to last year.
We knew Home was going to lag a little bit behind that.
So everything we are looking at with production is really according to what our expectations were.
But as Jay said we really were a property underwriter; we like the product; and we’re going to look for the opportunities going forward.
Great Doreen Jay.
Thank you so much.
This will conclude our call.
As always I am available in Investor Relations for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded January 22 2015.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Tina.
Good morning all and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer; Alan Schnitzer Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Business and International Insurance; and Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Claim Personal Insurance and Bond and Specialty Insurance.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website travelers.com.
With that Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you have already seen from our release this morning we closed out this year with record results.
We achieved record levels of net income per diluted share for both the quarter and the full year of $3.11 and $10.70 respectively.
Our return on equity and operating return on equity were also very strong quarter bringing our full year return on equity to 14.6% and operating return on equity to 15.5%.
Just as important is what's behind those numbers.
Across the organization we couldn't be more pleased with how we have executed on our business strategies including our approach to the marketplace in domestic business insurance the introduction of Quantum 12.0 and moving our personal insurance business to be better positioned the continuing evolution of our international footprint and our exceptional positioning in Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance.
Just as important is our capital management strategy.
In 2014 we returned over $4 billion in capital to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks while still maintaining our significant balance sheet strength.
Reflecting on our performance over the last 10 years now a decade since the merger a few things stand out.
When we introduced our long-term financial strategy in 2006 that is creating shareholder value by producing superior returns driven by building meaningful and sustainable competitive advantages generating top-tier earnings and capital substantially in excess of our growth needs and maintaining a balanced approach to rightsizing capital and growing book value per share over time we were confident that it has been successful in the broadest sense beyond our expectations.
Over these 10 years our cumulative operating income has been approximately $31.6 billion and we have reduced our share count by more than 61% returning $30.7 billion to shareholders through repurchases and dividends and amount exceeding the then market capitalization of the company and we did this while still making investments that were important for our business and acquisitions that were opportunistic for us along the way.
Consequently we have produced a very strong average annual operating return on equity of 13.3% over that time.
Our shareholders have benefited from superior total returns as shown on Page 4 of the webcast where you can see the 1 5 and 10-year performance of travelers compared to other U.S.
financial companies.
Obviously we posted top-tier returns but even looking globally we have identified only a small handful of large financial service companies whose 10-year performance exceeds ours.
We remain optimistic about our ability to successfully execute these strategies.
Our own observation is that the markets in which we do business remained fairly stable.
For the last several years we have shared with you that while we recognize that we could be wrong we were skeptical of the concept of the old-fashioned severe insurance pricing cycle where a bell to go off and it would be a few years of very high price increases and then another bell would go off and there would be significant price declines.
Our view was and remains that there are no substantive differences in the way business is conducted that have and we believe will continue to change the characteristics of our markets.
We have talked about the stability of the market as evidenced by the high levels of retention the fact that we are not the only company returning significant amounts of capital as well as the focus of the industry on returns on capital.
Advanced analytics and a more demanding regulatory and oversight environment have also meaningfully contributed.
While there will always be changes in pricing both increases and decreases in response to changes in loss costs expense interest rates or changes in real or perceived risk as there are in many industries we continue to believe that the amplitude of the cycle has narrowed substantially.
Beyond the insurance market dynamics we have real confidence that our organizations is well positioned to successfully navigate whatever set of challenges the external environment may throw our way.
With our relentless focus on execution deep and talented management team highly analytical approach to underwriting and investment risk and a very high respect for our shareholders' capital we remain well-positioned to continue to deliver meaningful shareholder value.
With that let me turn it over to Jay Benet.
Thank you Jay.
By any measure our fourth quarter results record net income per diluted share of $3.11 record operating income per diluted share of $3.07 operating ROE of 17.7% and a combined ratio of 85% were very strong.
As has been the case all year these strong results were built on very solid investment and underwriting performance.
Within underwriting we continue to earn rate increases in excess of loss cost trends which was the driver of 100-basis point improvement in our underlying combined ratio this quarter versus the prior year quarter while experiencing only a modest level of cap losses and very strong net favorable prior-year reserve development.
Pre-tax cap losses were $41 million in the quarter down $12 million from last year's fourth quarter and pre-tax net favorable PYD was $351 million up $92 million.
While each of our business segments contributed to the favorable reserve development it was primarily driven by Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance's as contract surety business for accident years 2012 and prior.
By business and international insurances general liability product line for accident years 2008 through 2012.
As I have been doing in recent period I would like to provide you with a preliminary view of what our combined 2014 Schedule P is expected to look like when filed on May 1<sup>st</sup>.
On a combined stat basis for all of our U.S.
subs all accident years developed favorably.
Looking at the data on a product line rather than on an accident year basis all of our major product lines developed favorably in the aggregate across all accident years except for relatively small amounts of unfavorable development in CMP and in personal auto liability.
CMP developed unfavorably by approximately $68 million pre-tax on a reserve base of approximately $3.5 billion spread out over several recent accident years.
Our personal auto liability developed unfavorably by only $20 million pre-tax on a reserve base of approximately $2 billion driven by development on a small number of large PIP claims from accident years 2005 and prior.
I should also point out that the personal auto in total; combining liability and [ph] reserved development was essentially a wash as physical damage developed favorably by $18 million pre-tax.
We have taken advantage of the recent evolution in aggregate CAT reinsurance products to restructure our CAT cover further focusing on severe events that on a single or cumulative basis could impact capital.
Effective January 1 we replaced our previous GEN CAT treaties our $400 million CAT aggregate excess of lost treaty which expires as scheduled on December 31 and our $400 million GEN CAT treaty which our reinsurers agreed to terminate early as of that date with a new aggregate ex-OL treaty that provides coverage for both single events and accumulation of losses for multiple events.
It is a simpler structure that provides $1.5 billion of coverage part of $2 million excess of $3 billion after a $100 million deductible per occurrence.
It has a same broad pharaoh and geographic coverage of the former GEN CAT and ex-OL treaties and it positions the coverage layer to provide a significant buffer between earnings and capital.
As an aggregate cover there is a single limit with no reinstatement provisions the cost is essentially the same as the previous program but it provides greater potential recovery after the higher retention.
Our Northeast GEN CAT treaty or CAT bonds earthquake and international covers remain unchanged and I refer you to Page 21 of the webcast for a brief description of the new treaty.
Another subject I would like to touch upon relates to the recent drop in the price of oil.
While this is not the first time that oil is trading at $45 a barrel it was at today's levels as recently as 2009 we thought it would be helpful to provide you with the information appearing on Page 22 of the webcast showing how much of our investment portfolio is invested in the low investment grade energy bonds and energy-related equities.
As you can see the sum of these investments is relatively small and we believe the exposure to be quite manageable.
We continue to generate capital well in excess of what is needed to support our businesses and consistent with our strategy we continue to return very significant amounts of capital to our shareholders.
Operating cash flows were in excess of $500 million this quarter inclusive of a $200 million discretionary contribution we decided to make to our qualified pension plan bringing total operating cash flows to almost $3.7 billion for the year.
We ended the year with holding company liquidity of almost $1.6 billion after returning almost $1.2 billion of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter alone through dividends of $182 million and common share repurchases of a little over $1 billion.
For the full-year we returned almost $4.1 billion of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $735 million and common share repurchases over $3.3 billion.
One final note about share repurchases since we began in 2006 the average price we paid for our shares was $57.56 approximately 60% of our current stock price.
Once again all of our capital ratios remain at or better than their target levels.
Our debt to total capital ratio 21.7% was well within its target range.
During the book value per share increased 1% and adjusted book value per share which excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses was also up slightly.
For the full-year book value per share increased 10% and adjusted book value per share increased 7% while net unrealized investment gains were almost $2 million after tax at the end of the year as compared to $1.3 billion at the beginning of the year.
Now let me turn things over to Brian MacLean Thanks Jay.
Alan and Doreen are going to go over the individual segment results.
Before they do I want to make a few comments about our business and I will start with a significant progress we have made in personal lines.
Three years ago we discussed with you that we would be aggressively pursuing improvements in our financial returns in both auto and homeowners primarily due to weather and auto severity trends.
As we close out 2014 we couldn't be more pleased with the progress that we have made.
We have taken necessary rate in both our home and auto products while maintaining strong retention levels and we have tightened underwriting guidelines and made changes to terms and conditions in our homeowners' book.
We also discussed that the increased utilization comparative raters by independent agent had resulted in a need to improve our competitive position in the auto market.
To that end we announced our production initiatives that would support the rollout of our new more competitive auto product Quantum Auto 2.0.
We have now achieved our expense reduction goal and Quantum 2.0 is live in virtually all Quantum states.
The impact from these bold actions on our results has been significant.
Our homeowners' returns are in line with our target range and our top-line trends are improving.
In auto our returns are operating in a range that is acceptable to us given current market conditions.
Importantly our auto business is growing again and the higher new businesses creating long-term value so overall great progress in the independent agent channel.
In the direct-to-consumer business our decision to enter that channel reflected our belief that a large segment of the personal insurance market empowered by increased transparency of product and pricing information would choose to buy insurance via the direct channel.
While certain customer segments of this market have quickly embraced the direct channel the customer demographic that Travelers target has moved more slowly.
With that said we remain committed to the strategic channel and expect that over time it will become a more significant portion of our personal business.
It is important to note that as we have invested in this channel we have consciously targeted that investment to help strengthen our independent agent channel which we believe will continue to be a significant channel for our customer demographic so we feel very good about this investment.
The final point I would make in personal lines is the growing importance of the home product.
Our industry is built around protecting consumers against risk the greater the risk the greater responsibility and opportunity we have.
In that vein the extreme weather volatility has added risk to the home exposure making our industry-leading capabilities in the homeowners' line and even more significant competitive advantage and critical with the customer segment we target.
Accordingly we are continuing to invest to make sure that we maintain and leverage our industry-leading product as a part of a total customer portfolio solution.
All-in we feel great about the progress we have made in this business we are proud of the many employees that have had a hand in executing these initiatives and we are grateful to our agents who have supported us throughout.
In our commercial businesses we are equally pleased with our progress specifically seen in the steady improvement of our product returns which have been the driven by our consistent execution.
As Jay Fishman mentioned in his comments we are encouraged by the continued stability of the market as evidenced by the strong retention levels we continue to see both in our book and across the market.
When we analyze our results at a very granular level we see that we continue to be successful executing our basic pricing strategy which is to retain a high percentage of our business that is meeting target returns improve profitability where needed and quote on and write new business that meets our target returns.
You will see in our results that we have had a bit more success last quarter in new business but I would emphasize that that is a function of the improved returns on accounts we are seeing and not a change in our appetite for new business.
Alan will comment on this further so overall great results in 2014 with stable market conditions very strong underwriting results.
With that I will turn it over to Alan.
Thank you Brian and good morning.
For business in international insurance our fourth quarter performance capped off a very good year with operating income of $630 million in the quarter and more than $2.3 billion for the full-year.
In terms of production results in the U.S.
retention rates increased throughout the year stable renewal premium change reflecting gradual declines in renewal rate regain and improving exposure.
We are very pleased with our execution in the field and I will comment more on that in a minute.
For the full-year the underlying combined ratio was strong 92.8% a half-point improvement from the prior year.
While earned pricing in excess of loss trend contributed favorably to year 2014 results there was also negative impact of about 1.5 for non-catastrophe weather and large losses relative to the prior year.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 93.9% up 40 basis points from the prior year.
The underlying loss ratio improved 40 basis points driven by the earned impact of price increases exceeding loss trend partially offset by large losses in non cat weather.
Impact of large losses was about a 0.1 in the quarter arising out of our international business.
We see this as a normal level of large loss volatility.
Expense ratio was a little higher year-over-year due to the effects of some favorable expense items in the prior year quarter.
Turning to production we had a very strong quarter in PII with net written premiums up over 6% from the prior quarter driven by our middle market business and inclusion of Dominion for the full quarter.
In domestic BI retention increased to 83% while renewal premium change increased somewhat from recent quarters and new business was up about 6%.
These production results reflect what you have been hearing from us for the last year or so.
That is given the rate gains we have achieved over the past four years more of our business is achieving adequate return and for those accounts or classes our primary objective is retention.
Importantly in our domestic BI business we are on average still achieving flat to slightly positive written rate gains on our better performing business segment.
For the lesser performing segments of our business we are on average achieving written renewal rate gains in excess of estimated loss trends.
Let me comment on the growth on new business in middle market both Jay and Brian commented on the stability in the marketplace.
As a consequence of that stability the number of requests for quotes on new business has also been relatively stable.
However given the cumulative impact of rate gains in the market broadly over the past four years a modestly increasing percentage of the new business request that we did see in the quarter where return levels that met our threshold.
As a result in the quarter we were able to quote successfully on more accounts.
The new business growth in the quarter does not reflect any changes of our return thresholds or more aggressive new business pricing.
Looking at the production statistics I would like to highlights some further detail.
In select retention was over 80% for the second consecutive quarter with total renewal premium change of a little over 8%.
In middle-market retention was above 84% for the second consecutive quarter and renewal premium change was strong and increased slightly from the third quarter a great result.
In our other domestic BI business we were pleased that both rate and exposure increased from the third quarter resulting in 100-basis point increase sequentially in renewal premium change.
Also our retention increased to 81% the highest level in more than two years.
Looking at our production results for international retention was strong at 82% slightly higher than recent quarters.
Renewal premium change was higher than the third quarter as exposures improved.
New business was down year-over-year primarily because the new business we saw did not meet our return threshold.
In December we were pleased to announce that our joint venture with J.
Malucelli in Brazil agreed to acquire a majority interest in Cardinal a start-up surety provider in Columbia.
The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2015 subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
To sum it up we are very pleased with our strong operating income and production results for the fourth quarter and the momentum we feel going into 2015.
In terms of execution going forward we intend to pursue more of the same.
With that let me turn it over to Doreen.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning to all.
Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance had a great quarter rounding out a strong 2014.
Both the fourth quarter and full-year results are record earnings for the business and we are very pleased with the financial returns in this segment.
For the fourth quarter operating income was $216 million 24% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013 while full-year income of $727 million was 27% higher than 2013.
The increases from prior year were predominantly driven by the higher levels of favorable prior year reserve development that Jay Benet referenced earlier.
The underlying combined ratio for both the quarter and full year were strong at 84.1% and 82.2% respectively.
The quarter was slightly higher than 2013 due to a modest re-estimation of prior quarter losses.
The full-year result was 2.5 points better than 2013 due primarily to benefits from existing our management liability excess of loss treaty.
While there will always be some ups and downs in the year-over-year variances.
I cannot emphasize enough how terrifically feel about the results in particular the underlying fundamentals of how we achieved them.
As with all of our businesses at Travelers we remain committed to superior underwriting performance of our portfolios through aggressive management of risk and limits including enhanced segmentation underwriting analytics and claims management.
Turning to production net written premium for the quarter was $525 million a decrease of 5% compared to the prior year due to the exit of our management liability excess of loss treaty in the fourth quarter of 2013 which increased that period in net written premium.
The non-renewal of this treaty in 2014 together with higher surety volume drove 4% increase in net written premium for the full-year.
Across our management liability businesses retention of 84% was consistent with recent period in the prior year while new business premium of $36 million was generally consistent with recent period.
Renewal premium change which can be somewhat lumpy due to variations in things like limits written liability attachment point and policy duration was 5% for the quarter.
In sum I would like to reiterate one more time just how great we feel about the business and our ability to continue to produce superior financial results.
I will turn now to personal insurance where I would first like to reiterate Brian's comments about the progress made in the business and how great we feel about our ability to have a vibrant consumer business that generates appropriate returns.
We had a great fourth quarter rounding out a strong 2014.
Operating income for the quarter was $242 million up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2013 while underlying income of $254 million was up 18% for the quarter from the prior year driven by strong underwriting results.
The underlying combined ratio of 84.3% in the quarter was an improvement of 4.5 points from 2013 while the full-year underlying combined ratio was 86.4% an improvement of about two points from 2013.
The improvement in underlying results from '13 for both the quarter and full year reflect continued benefits from earned pricing exceeding loss trends and our expense reduction initiatives.
Before addressing the specific results for auto and homeowners I wanted to give some detail on our expense reduction initiative.
You will recall that our plan was to achieve pre-tax savings of $140 million on a run rate basis by 01/01/2015 and we are pleased to tell you that we have achieved that goal.
As we have discussed in the past about half of these reductions relate to claim management expenses the impact of which shows up in the loss ratio.
Since we started the program in the third quarter of 2013 there is about $100 million in cumulative pre-tax savings already in our earnings through the end of 2014.
For the remaining $40 million initiatives have already been executed and they will earn through in 2015.
With this specific initiative met and now behind us please rest assured that we will continue to manage expenses diligently as we always have.
Looking at agency auto retention remained strong and consistent at 83% while renewal premium change was about 5%.
Quantum Auto 2.0 continues to drive improvements in production with new business premium of $161 million in the quarter 87% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013 and overall net written premiums increased 4% for the quarter.
We have also seen increases in policies enforced on a sequential basis for two consecutive quarters now.
Turning to agency auto profitability the underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 97.9% an improvement of about four points and was 95.9 % for the full-year an improvement of just over 0.5 for their comparable 2013 period.
These improvements were driven by benefits from the expense initiatives and earned pricing exceeding loss trend partially offset by the higher impact of new business volumes.
In addition the quarter included approximately 2.5 points of favorable prior quarter re-estimation.
Lastly on auto our current view of the overall auto loss trend remains at about 3% with no meaningful change in the underlying texture.
Looking at agency homeowners and other production was strong in the quarter with retention stable at 84% and renewal premium change of about 6%.
New business premium of $83 million was up almost 40% from the prior year quarter and we remained focused on maximizing our market leadership position in the homeowners' line to provide broad consumer solution.
From a profitability perspective the underlying combined ratio of 69% was an improvement of more than 5 points over the fourth quarter of 2013 driven by earned pricing exceeding loss trend and favorable losses including non-cat weather.
Overall in personal insurance a terrific finish to 2014 and we feel great about our momentum heading into 2015.
Finally I would like to echo one of Brian's earlier comments and this applies to all of our employees in all of the businesses.
We are very proud of the hard work of all of our employees and grateful for the partnership with our agents in achieving these results.
With that I will turn the call back to Gabi.
Thank you.
Tina we are now ready for Q&amp;A.
I would ask you all to please limit yourselves to one question and one follow.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question is from Randy Binner of FBR.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I wanted to touch on the commentary around rate increases now moving below the increase in exposures.
I appreciate the commentary that I think you think you feel like you are getting rate ahead of loss cost and you are more focused on retention there but a couple of questions.
One I assume there is going to be competitive profits to keep retention so any new initiatives there or any more color on how you plan to keep retention higher.
Then as far as the absolute rate increase number we all watch so closely I guess I mean is by definition we have to see that continue to moderate if you are achieving the rate adequacy.
Hi.
This is Jay.
Alan and I I think we will tag team this.
First just to be clear about rate gains first I assume you are speaking about our business insurance segment.
I think what Alan said was in our best-performing segments of that business talking really about the middle-market predominantly but it goes even beyond that.
In our best-performing business we continue to experience let's call it flat to upper point in terms of rate.
Now relative obviously an overall loss trend for that segment it is not keeping pace with it.
I would tell you that we are not attempting to.
That is not our principal focus.
Alan also said that in the poorer performing classes that rate gains there continue to exceed loss trends so that's where we are.
The reason I said we are not uniquely focused on that is that we are a return-driven organization and we ask of folks who have managed this just excellently to remember its agency relationships its customer relationships and it is how you manage your business over time that matters.
We start off with returns over time that translates to account management over time so if an account has had and I am speaking very very broadly here but if account has had three years of increases and they have been a good account and we value them we tell our people that there's nothing wrong with renewing that flat.
It doesn't mean that if there's an opportunity to do a little better because circumstances suggest it claim activity rising or otherwise but they should attempt to do it but that we manage our relationships and returns on accounts over time so I suspect report I part that if we are right about the cycle dynamics that you will see more of a stair step in rate gains more than sort of a constant trend line and ultimately I suspect with it the granularity of our discussion our best-performing accounts versus our poorer performing accounts will become more relevant in perhaps the way you see the world.
Now that's first part.
The second you spoke about retentions.
We are not doing anything differently with respect to retain business than we ever have done and I am sure Alan can give you more color and will but the way generally business is renewed if the agent is satisfied the customer is satisfied if the market is satisfied the discussions take place pretty early well in advance of the renewal date the account gets resolved at whatever it is and it gets renewed whether it is down a point zero up a point or differently so it is [ph] the retention discussions have become as you described more competitive.
That simply isn't how the business is done.
Those conversations take place given the data and the analytic we have in the context of long-term account management and doing right thing for the customer the agent for the long-term.
I let Alan give some more color on that but there wasn't anything in the world of retention that we are doing differently.
Randy it is Alan Schnitzer.
Let me also address both of those quickly.
Industry observers tend to focus very narrowly on rate change and the long-term estimated loss trend we give you and I would remind of comments during the quarter which is there is a component of price change which includes exposure that from a return perspective and from margins acts like rate so we don't look at the narrow GAAP between rate and loss trend may be quite as precisely as industry observers do and there is always variations quarter-to-quarter in weather and large losses and all those sorts of things that create volatility plus or minus within an expected range so we are really in a pretty tight band.
In terms of retention I would have given you the same comments Jay did about our efforts and I would highlight a real competitive advantage that we have.
This is not us needing to do anything else.
We have got an extraordinary deal capability we have got great presence in the field great tenure in the field we have got great relationships we have got great related services like our risk control and it is those sorts of things not developed this month or this quarter but over many years that give us the ability to manage retention in a way that we think is most productive from a profitability perspective.
I would add.
Again that is exactly right.
It is not uniquely a price discussion.
It is important; it is only one element of long-term relationships and management.
Lastly at least through the third quarter obviously with the first one out in the PC business this quarter retention is what I would consider all the quality companies they are all high.
It is not that we are describing a set of circumstances that are unique for us.
We think we manage it better than anybody else and maybe that is sort of our own pride in it but the fact is that it is not our business that has been stable.
It is broadly speaking the industry's that has been stable and that is what so important.
Very helpful.
Just one quick follow-up and that is for Jay Fishman on stair step comment on rate.
I didn't quite follow how that fit in a conversation but I think you are saying is the good part of the book becomes more rate adequate.
The places where you are trying to seek rate increases may have kind of a bigger impact on a quarterly basis on what we see for rate change.
Is that what you meant by the stair step versus the trend? Yes.
I did but the second part of that is that at the account level you may see a year two years where in an account renew is flat and then there is an attempt to recover if you will some of that loss margin relative to loss trend on that account.
We are not a company.
We have not issued an edict to the field that says get trend on every account.
That would be a dumb thing to do.
We say to them manage the long-term return given everything you know about the agent the account profile of that account and manage it thoughtfully and if that means that account is going to renew flat for a year or two that is okay so that is really the comment about stair step that I was speaking to.
All right.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Jay I know this is somewhat of a sensitive topic and I hope you are feeling well most importantly.
If you could update us on the health condition that was disclosed several months ago along with any update in succession plans that would be helpful initially.
Thank you.
Sure.
I appreciate the question.
I have no sensitivity about it by the way none at all so first thank you.
I do continue to feel okay.
I am here I am on the job I am still mobile.
It's a little clunkier than it was and everybody here is helpful above and the call of duty and making sure that not only I can continue to do my job but everybody here can continue to do theirs.
As I disclosed and someone asked me why did I disclose it and the answer is because I needed to to continue to do the job effectively.
It was becoming apparent for those who were around me a lot that something was amiss and it was prior leave people in confusion and doubt or provide some clarity with respect to my circumstance.
I have chosen not to be specific about the ailment really in respect of my privacy and my family's privacy and just do not think that it really matters a whole lot.
Its relevance is I am 62 there isn't anything about my circumstance that causes me to change my view of my ability to continue work here as I did I have something else to say so the horizon is unchanged in that regard.
We have been an active succession planning company for a long time and pretty transparently.
If you look and see what we have done and what we have announced it doesn't take a real genius to see what we are doing and what the next generation of leadership here is.
I chuckled where 62 is kind of a magic number here Brian 62 I am 62 Jay Benet 62 Bill Heyman is 60-plus so it is just that responsibility falls on us to make sure that we do this seamlessly seamlessly.
I would tell you that a board knows virtually everything.
I have been completely transparent to them and to the extent anyone really is interested I have already begun to cut back fairly meaningfully on my non-travelers commitments and I will continue to do that so that I can focus exclusively maybe but there [ph] things are not going to give up but to focus relentlessly on what matters here so that's the news of the day.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Switching gears for Jay Benet the capital return in 2014 for Travelers was 112% operating income including dividends and buybacks.
How should we think about that for the years going forward? There is really no change in the philosophy there is no change in what we have said in the 10-Ks and Qs earnings are going to drive what we are able to return subject to the number of items that we list and contributions being one of them.
When you look at a particular quarter you are going to see the ebbs and flows of what has taken place in terms of earnings from prior quarters making the determination as to how much in particular in that quarter we will be able to return to shareholders so there is no change in philosophy no change in the kind of basis upon which it is done all we were seeing is some excess capital actually that we ended the prior year with working its way into the share repurchases in 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Jay Benet I was wondering if you could follow-up a little bit on the development maybe give us a little bit more color maybe the breakdown between surety and GL.
I am more interested in GL but on the surety piece how much is the non-renewal of that management liability treaty.
How much of the impact of that has already come through.
Then on GL just trying to some idea on that '08 to '12 accident years where are the most recent alternates on those books of business as compared to where you are looking in that business today.
Thanks.
I think some of that is a level of granularity.
You will probably see when we file the Schedule P.
You know we are in the process of summarizing all that data so to give a very detailed information at this point in time I think would be a bit of a mistake.
What we are trying to do is give the overall picture as to how things have developed and in terms of the individual products the individual accident years so what we are trying to communicate was yes there was major shift in anything that affected PYD.
As far as your specific question on the surety reinsurance that has no effect on development.
That's a contract that was in place that was looked at in terms of its cost benefit and we decided that it was not really something that was achieving the objectives and from a profitability standpoint and a risk standpoint we would be better off not having it but that really had nothing to do with PYD.
Okay.
Thanks.
Then just on expenses the ratio in BI kind of dropped in the back half of last year and kind of stayed at that level first part of this year and now we have risen now to 32.5-ish range.
Where should we expect to see that? I mean is that where you know I am thinking about whether it is Dominion or something else? I mean is there an opportunity to kind of bring that back down to what we were seeing over the trailing 12 months in the second quarter or is that where you expect to efficiently run? Thanks.
It is Alan again.
If you look at the full year expense ratio I think it was 30 31.5 and that had a benefit in it from the first quarter that we disclosed then.
That was on the year worth about half a point.
If you adjust that first quarter event and have that half point again round numbers that sort of what we feel like would be a fair run rate.
Sorry.
The benefit remind you also workers' compensation state assessment liability that we talked about… We had a reduction in estimated liability that we announced in the first quarter and we quantified it so you will see it in our press release and 10-Q for the first quarter so that really was the anomaly this year so if you add that back in and look at the full year round numbers I would say it is always going to be up or down a little bit for one thing or another but that will give you sort of a ballpark.
Got it.
Great.
Then last one for Jay Fishman.
Is there anything that you think could happen in the reinsurance market as far as evolution or innovation that would allow you or how you to consider pursuing more growth in catastrophe exposed areas utilizing reinsurance or is that something at this point that is still not something that you foresee.
Thanks again.
Sure.
It is irrelevant question of course.
First we are engaged involved and looking at lots of different things.
The specific question you asked is are you prepared to build primarily exposure and rely on a reinsurance profile that may or may not be permanent to produce an effective loss profile and there is the potential of mismatches there are substantial.
Meaning on the primary side very difficult to non-renew.
Reinsurance obviously to be non-renewed instantly when that happens even if you pursue a primary non-renewable strategy that 12 months where you had to think where the primary exposure sits and the reinsurance is simply not there anymore so that is an arbitrage that I think as a potential mismatch to it that's concerning.
Now if reinsurance pricing were to drift low enough in my judgment it is not there yet you might sit there and contemplate doing that but I would say that the mismatch risk there has real shareholder value attachment to it as well as regulatory.
I mean imagine trying to non-renew a significant enough book of business where you would actually do this as a strategy as opposed to an operate tactic.
It would be very disruptive so I think not in that regard but it doesn't mean that there might not be other opportunities and we are sure pushing it around.
It is not obvious to us yet.
Pluses and minuses these things will have certain complexities to them but it is not obvious to us yet that there is some magic a dynamic there that has happened the changes the fundamental underlying economics of being the primary business.
Now maybe it keep going in that direction but - not yet.
Great.
Thank you so much Jay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Stirling of Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jay.
Glad you brought up the St.
Paul Travelers' deal.
I think it is really interesting topic for us to talk about today.
Going back 10 years people were not sure about the deal but it has obviously been a fantastic success.
As we are seeing a new wave of consolidation I am curious to hear your perspective on the M&amp;A we are seeing in the market today? When you think about the opportunities you guys are presenting I am sure you have had a lot of opportunities to consider and debate this and I am wondering more specifically you have made a couple of smaller investments in the past couple of years.
Should we expect you to do more of these as stock buybacks become more expensive in your multiple runs or alternatively should we expect you potentially to be more of a material consolidator in the small and mid-cap consolidation rate that seems to be starting? Just would love to get a sense how you think about capital priorities here.
It is a really good question so let us break it into a couple of component parts.
First on the international horizon to the extent and the Columbia situation was a pretty good one I think Dominion even though it was a $1 billion trade to the extent there are opportunities to do things of that nature where a business is either relatively new or underperforming and we think that collectively locally and what we bring ourselves we can improve it we will continue to look for those opportunities.
It is they are increasingly harder to find driven in some measure by the economics.
Much of the economic environment outside the U.S.
as well as the general competitive environment that exists outside the U.S.
There are lot of areas where you would say kind of the last thing you want to do is be competing there and that was just not been in significant list but nonetheless to the extent that opportunities present themselves in international front we will we will most certainly look at them.
I would not contemplate by the way I could be completely wrong here.
Meaning you are asking me for an outlook I am giving it to you today that doesn't mean that we could change but I would not contemplate that those would be large transactions.
I do not know how one would look at Dominion.
I do not think of it as a large transaction meaningful but I would not contemplate that international front what would be that.
We really have no interest in the reinsurance business in the broadest sense so to the extent that there are the things happening in the arena Bermuda or otherwise we largely do not pay attention to it and I do not really have a view on the value that has created there.
I am not knowledgeable I am not close enough to it to have a thoughtful view.
We have always said about acquisitions and this hasn't changed.
It is very very much the same.
We are a return-driven organization the principal view that we would take for looking at anything is what would it do to our return profile over time.
Would it potentially improve our return dynamics and that could be either in magnitude or in volatility.
To the extent there is diversification geographic expansion and providing lower volatility returns that could meet the threshold also.
The challenge for us in that regard is that when you do something small in our business you take all the risks of whatever it was whatever undisclosed liability whatever policy was written 20 30 40 years ago you have got it.
In many cases the controls and procedures and knowledge base that exists in small companies just did not [ph] to warrant the risk they could take to getting into it.
They just don't have the database that gives you a sense of comfort when you are spending your shareholders' money that it is wise.
In the larger transactions given that we are such a high return organization relative to the industry it is hard to find at a price that can be achieved a transaction that would meet that return threshold.
They would [ph] for sure but that is interesting but not highly relevant.
We are big enough we do not need to be any bigger but we are driven about returns driven by them.
If something significant were ever to be available we would look and we would look hard.
I do think that we are really good.
By the way at the front end at the back-end meaning - that goes on when we look at something.
Then once we decide to proceed the execution side and a complex and complicated transaction I think we are pretty good at that and I am speaking out for what is what people know in the marketplace but also what you don't know.
The things that we have looked at the things that we have walked away from because our own due diligence suggested no that is not for us so it's good.
I think the challenge will be meeting all those standards.
That doesn't mean we do not roll up our sleeves and dig in and we will continue to try so but again that's my answers [ph] I can give you.
That is helpful Jay.
Thank You.
If I could sneak in a quick one on pricing so look I get that it used to be very cyclical industry and you have become much more data-driven and the company is more disciplined.
If you are in the trenches in you are an actuary and underwriter should we be expecting that generally a good - be able to cover their cost over the next couple of years raising pricing you know 2% 3% whenever that entails or is that just kind of unrealistic but it is still competition and capacity still matters and basically the market price is going to be driven by the more aggressive guys who probably do not do as good a job managing their business and they cut the market price to reduce margins and sales and shift top-line growth? I am always hesitant to speak for any other company because I can only from the outside in proceed how you are manage their business but I can speak to what we do and how we run our business.
Underwriters will do good ones will do with precision what you ask them to do so you better be really good at knowing what you are asking of them.
We have taken the view when I might - from the outside looking in is that we are not unique in this regard others too.
If you tell an underwriter grow they will.
We don't tell them that we tell them to find thoughtful ways to deploy capital.
If they cannot it is okay.
It's okay.
No one will ever be asking you why they did not meet their volume budget because first time you asked them that they will meet at the next quarter and all of us understand that you would never speak to loan officer that way at the back.
You would not say to a loan officer here is your volume goal and the torpedo is full speed ahead.
If we do not perceive that there is a lot of difference between that risk profile and speaking to field underwriter so we value their judgment and their insight and the data and analytics that we have in front of them to make thoughtful decisions to own the account to think about do I want that account in my portfolio for the long-term and what will it do to the return of my portfolio in a collaborative environment of the type that we have here.
Really I cannot underestimate I cannot overstate rather I am sorry.
I can't overstate how different that is than it was 20 years ago.
It is just quite different.
I think most importantly is that the feedback loop between what goes on in the field and what is really - knowledge at the home office to ways going on is stunningly shorter than it was 20 years ago so the ability to act and react to changes not just cyclical big time changes but local changes on offices on market on company in a local place is just that much better.
I believe again I could be dead wrong.
I think that the cyclicality of our business is and will be meaningfully reduced.
Anybody who has tried prices are up now let's grow I can't think of one company that has successfully executed that strategy in any meaningful way.
If you look at history it becomes difficult to say boy that is a smart thing to do.
I think the people who manage our businesses understand what it means to manage your risk profile and as a consequence they will do so.
Now on a given year where we seek a - we will receive if long-term if loss trend is 4% we would be stupid to tell underwriters they got to get 4% on every account.
That means we are losing accounts that don't need 4% in their returns and we will get 4% on those accounts that we - so we say to them be return-driven with that account be smart be thoughtful and be return-driven and it has worked for us.
I think if there is anything about our results over these particularly last five years I think that many industry observers have not appreciated how productive that approach can be to profitability improvement.
Getting the right rate on the right account is really what it is all about.
I think more and more people are beginning to understand that.
Thank you Jay.
Tina next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Two quick questions.
Maybe the other one a little bit last quick.
Since we have had a notable drop in interest rates if you can give us a sense of what the new money yields look like for your portfolio versus the portfolio yield today? Well Jay Benet has given you an idea of what our expectations would be over the next two or three years due to the drop in interest rates.
We did that in the back of the envelope last night that is already but last night the new money rates were about 50 basis points lower than the rates Jay was using in making his calculation which would equate to about $20 million after taxes of lower earnings $20 million a year the delta.
This morning the tenure rate is up a little bit but that $20 million is $15 million or $16 million but there is no question that these rates are lower.
Last year as we look at our investment results which including 2013 much to our surprise they did so notwithstanding the fact that their rates were lower than our projections at the beginning of the year.
We made for this year a new set of projections which already looks 22 days in but we are not [ph] in yet but nonetheless about $20 million a year different.
That’s was Bill Heyman speaking.
Right.
The tenure is actually down a little bit today but at the end of the call - who knows.
Second question if we could get more color on international price change.
We saw the premium change but obviously I think exposure but what's happening from a pricing standpoint in your major international markets? I do not have this slide in front of me right now but I think it is in the webcast.
You are talking about rate internationals? Yes.
I would say what is there in RPC is split probably pretty evenly between rate and exposure.
Okay.
You are still getting overall increased internationally? We still have an overall positive renewal rate change in international yes.
The other thing I would tell you about our international relative to U.S.
is our outlook for loss trend in outside the U.S.
it is lower in the U.S.
because we do not have the same level of exposure to the medical inflation.
Got it.
Is that being helped by Canada the rate change? Yes.
I would say the rate in Canada is a higher end of the spectrum.
Got it.
Thanks Alan.
Great.
Tina next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg of Janney Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I am just wondering if you can characterize how non-cat weather and large losses came in for the full year 2014 relative to what would be viewed as normal? It's Alan Schnitzer.
I do not know if you are talking about business insurance but I will started in and turn it over to Jay maybe for a - if we grew cats did you say cats… Non-cat The stuff that would flow into underlying...
Yes.
Certainly above expectation and above the prior year.
Yes.
I think when you look at the entire company because this is going to be yes it is like what you are asking if that large losses non-cat weather they are going to be episodic there are going to be dependent upon geography and things of that sort.
When you look at the entire company I do not think that this year 2014 was all that unusual a year as it relates to weather.
I am talking non-cat weather now.
When you look at BI when you look at I am talking non-cat weather now.
You know when you look at PI and BI combined it was probably pretty normal although BI was a little higher and PI was probably a little lower in terms of what they might consider to be normal.
I think when you make the contrast to last year which gets you away from an expectation and gets you into the weather and large loss activity of last year meaning 2013 versus 2014 now there are I think 2014 was a little worse than 2013 but still a good year.
Hopefully that is helpful.
Yes.
What we tried to do in the press release was to provide you not with the data because it is difficult to measure these things but to adopt the phrase of normal variability in loss activity from quarter-to-quarter try to accommodate the sort of thought process and get away from the - Now is it good is it bad it is going to vary.
Hopefully when you get to a full year some of the variances is less pronounced.
It's a challenge for us to estimate normal non-cat weather.
It is easier for us to speak about non-cat weather this year compared to last this quarter compared to last year's quarter but it has been exceptionally difficult for us to come to what would be a normal non-cat weather numbers so we have a hard time speaking to it that way.
If I could just add an example of what makes it difficult you have times when given the granularity of what we look at you will be looking an information and say well large losses activities is up somewhere.
Then you get into and why is it up well because slips and walls [ph] are taken but the slips and walls because of the weather.
Yes.
It is a very difficult bucketing process to end up summarizing all of this data and what we try to do is give you the concepts of what taking place.
Great.
Now that is helpful.
Then on direct I listened to what you had said earlier about continuing to invest in that business.
The last couple of years you have generated statutory underwriting losses of about $100 million from the businesses growing top-line a bit you are getting a little bit of scale economics probably.
I mean when we think about that over the next few years is that sort of the normal run rate of what expectations should be? I mean is there going to be a drop in investment spending somewhere out there? Well this is Jay Fishman.
I do not have a better number if I were looking out and one we are experiencing now and.
To the extent markets change certainly have not changed obviously our strategy will but if we start off with the premise that - when we started this investment we said it.
We said we were less concerned than some industry observers if a typical Travelers customer would go to buying direct but we were not ready to bet the trumpet [ph] and therefore ignore the trends so the development has been important.
It is not apparent to us yet that there are enough Travelers-type customers who choose to buy direct or a direct business is scalable on it owned.
It is not that we don't know how to get people to respond or how to quote and had issue we would become really really good at that that.
It is that the number of people that we would think of as the customer that we seek are not choosing to respond that way now that may change three or four or five years from now.
It is a trend.
I don't think it is appropriate to ignore it so we will continue to develop the expertise and the skill so that if in fact things change and there is a market opportunity for us we are in a position to respond and we are not… The other point I would make and I do not know how to quantify it for you but I would tell you that the benefit to the agency business the investment the technology and the underlying customer reach attributes the ways customer connects to us our ability to respond as and as a I will call it an electronic company for lack of a better term that has just been invaluable.
I don’t know how any dollars it meant in the agency business but I do know it is important.
As I would remind everyone I am not so unhappy that that the Travelers' customer has not turned away from the agency channel as quickly as some people though.
That is good for us.
We have got a very big agency based business that is very profitable.
If that change continues to occur more slowly that is just fine with us so this is a kind of a hedge your position investment that is necessary because it is just not clear that it will continue this way but I would say yes.
That is what I would certainly included if was..
Great.
Thanks for your comments.
Great.
Thank you.
Tina this will be our last and final question please.
Thank you.
Our question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks.
Just two quick ones here.
First one for Alan and Jay if I look at the business insurance business right now and we look at the returns that are generating they are pretty attractive right now.
Is there any consideration or thought about having underwriters expand their risk profile right now kind of looking maybe into the E&amp;S market a little bit I know there are kind of ebbs and flows with the cycles.
Also loss trend continues to be pretty favorable so I think that is an area for growth? Yes.
Brain it is Alan.
I guess the way we would think about that is we are always challenging ourselves to think about whether there are new marketplace opportunities but I would distinguish that from changing our risk profile to do it.
If we could find opportunities whether it is in energy or whether it is in E&amp;S or any other market we would certainly look at it but that would not involve any change in our return thresholds or our risk appetite.
Got you.
Okay.
Then the second one is for Doreen.
Just looking at the homeowners continued to see the declines in PIF any thoughts on when that could start to stabilize or maybe start to trend upwards and what impact do you think the decline in PIF in the homeowners business is having on your auto insurance growth here? Brian.
Good morning.
I will answer that with a couple of different comments.
We put some as Brian referenced in his comments due to some of the weather that we were seeing coming through the book and just where the levels of deductibles were and roof issues we took some pretty strong actions in the homeowners' book.
Some of our declines there were deliberate whether it might be some concentration in some areas so it was not unexpected to us that we would see some shrinkage.
That being said we feel really great of that we have come through the other side of that where our deductibles are where the PIF is.
The rest of the market probably was not as aggressive as we were in addressing property but from where we are today and launching forward we are very excited about that.
We feel like we have got just a great launch point on that because we look at account underwriting there is no question that when there is pressure on one product there might be some impact to the other product around either new business or retention.
We have seen with QA 2 as we have become more competitive there that we think that has allowed us to start growing the home line again.
We are still in a negative position but I can tell you that for 2015 and beyond that is going to be a very strong focus of ours whether it is going to be how we do digital marketing leading with some of our home capabilities because we think they are industry-leading whether it is to look at some different kind of practices in the quote process or an overall customer view so we can utilize the strength in the property line to actually get not just more homeowners business but more customer business for the Travelers.
We knew that homeowners was going to be the recovery was going to follow auto so we are in the spot that we thought we would be and there is a lot of focus on that.
Great.
Thanks for answers.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you all for joining us today.
As always I will be available for further follow-up.
Thank you and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the First Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on April 21 2015.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our first quarter 2015 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer; Alan Schnitzer Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Business and International Insurance; and Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Claim Personal Insurance and Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We are very pleased to start 2015 by reporting another strong quarter with operating income of $827 million or $2.53 per share and an operating return on equity of 14.5%.
Our underwriting results remained very strong across all of our business units as evidenced by our combined ratio of 88.9%.
Additionally we achieved a record level of retention in domestic business insurance while simultaneously posting positive renewal rate change.
With Quantum Auto 2.0 in full rollout in Agency Auto we achieved policy in force growth of 1.8%.
The first-time that metric has been positive since 2011.
We posted these results notwithstanding another severe winter and the reduction in net investment income from last year’s first quarter.
Jay will speak about our investment income in just a moment but for now suffice it to say that nothing happened that we had not contemplated or considered a possibility.
The operating and production results for this quarter were being very encouraging and consistent with our belief that the amplitude of the historical cycle has narrowed.
Importantly this stability contributes to our confidence and our ability to continue to deliver superior returns on equity.
The confidence that we have is in part evidenced by our capital management strategies.
Today our Board of Directors announced an 11% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.61 per share marking the 11th consecutive year of dividend increases and bringing the compound annual growth rate on the dividend to nearly 10% over this time.
In addition we returned $850 million from capital to shareholders bringing our total since 2006 to $31.6 billion.
And we’ve done all of that while continuing to make significant investments in our business and our people.
Canada Brazil and the data center in Omaha just to name a few.
Rightsizing capital and reinvesting in the business are not mutually exclusive both are fundamental to the way we think about the business for the long-term.
We intend to continue with these strategies and in that regard our Board also authorized an additional $5 billion of share repurchases.
We’ve made substantial progress in improving our product returns over the past five years through a thoughtful focused and highly analytical approach to our business that has been well executed in the marketplace.
We intend to continue on this path.
In that regard fixed income returns remain at historical lows and as a consequence we must continue to be mindful that this challenging environment has already lasted far longer than most would have assumed and we will continue to factor that environment into our pricing strategies.
In addition we note that weather patterns do seem to be different.
This change when combined with increased real-estate development causes us to be very attentive to incorporating the real cost of weather uncertainty in our business.
Part of the answer to this challenge above and beyond price and policy terms is helping our customers consider their risks and protect their assets in the most thoughtful ways possible.
And we know that we and our independent agents are committed to helping customers do just that.
As the world gets riskier the value of thoughtful insurance advice goes up.
And with that let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Jay.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
Operating income of $827 million and operating return on equity of 14.5% despite operating income being down $225 million from the very strong first quarter we had in 2014.
Importantly this decrease in operating income was not driven by deteriorating the underwriting results.
As Jay just said we reported a consolidated combined ratio of 88.9% this quarter.
Rather the decrease in operating income primarily resulted from three items: Net investment income that was lower by a $104 million after tax; the inclusion in last year’s first quarter of a $49 million after tax benefit from a change in state law that led to a reduction in our estimated liability for state assessments for workers’ compensation premiums; and while still at high level net favorable prior-year reserve development that was lower by $32 million after tax.
Net investment income this quarter is being compared to a very strong first quarter last year and both fixed and non-fixed income returns were lower than the prior year quarter.
Non-fixed income NII was lower principally due to private equity returns which was slightly positive this quarter as compared to a very strong first quarter last year.
Energy related private equity funds produced negative NII of $21 million after tax giving up a small fraction of what has previously been earned in these funds in recent years.
While we cannot predict future oil prices and even though we report private equity returns on a three months lag a number of factors suggest that the vast majority of the impact of the recent decline in oil prices has been reflected in the current quarter’s results.
Current oil prices are slightly higher than at the yearend share prices of public companies and our funds portfolios are also higher than they were at yearend and nothing we’ve seen has reduced our confidence in the general partners of our portfolio funds.
Additionally for non-energy related private equity funds which represent approximately 85% of our private equity portfolio returns were adequate this quarter although far below what was an unusually good first quarter in 2014.
Fixed income NII was lower principally due to what we’ve been saying from many years now.
Securities having higher book yields ran off during the past 12 months and were replaced with securities having lower yields due to the current interest rate environment.
Another contributing factor was the level of short-term investments which yield very little being somewhat higher this quarter than in the prior year quarter.
Each of our business segments once again contributed to our net favorable prior year development which totaled $243 million on a pretax basis.
In business and international insurance net favorable development of $77 million resulted from better than expected loss experience in the general liability product line for accident years 2005 and prior along with better expected loss experience in workers’ comp for accident years 2007 and prior.
In bond and specialty insurance net favorable development of $35 million resulted from better than expected loss experience in contract surety for accident years 2010 through 2012.
And in personal insurance net favorable development of $131 million resulted from better than expected loss experience in recent accident years for home owners and auto liability coverages as well as better than expected loss experience in home owners for recent cat and non-cat weather related losses.
On a combined state basis for all of our U.S.
subs there were no accident years or product lines that had any meaningful unfavorable development this quarter.
Operating cash flows of $199 million compared to $703 million in the prior year quarter a $504 million decrease entirely due to the $579 million payment we made this quarter in final settlement of the Asbestos Direct Action Litigation.
As this amount was fully accrued at the beginning of the quarter this payment had no impact on the quarter’s operating income or share repurchases and it will have no impact on future share repurchases.
Holding company liquidity was over $1.7 billion at the end of the quarter and all of our capital ratios were at or better than their target levels.
Net unrealized invest gains were approximately $3.2 billion pretax or $2.1 billion after tax up from $3 billion and $2 billion respectively at the beginning of the year and book value per share was $77.96 or 1% higher than at the beginning of the year.
I’d point out that book value per share growth was achieved despite the negative impact of the strengthening of the dollar on foreign currency translations.
Turning to capital management we continue to generate much more capital than we need to support our businesses allowing us to return $850 million of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter.
We paid dividends of a $178 million and repurchased $672 million of our common shares this quarter including $600 million under our publicly announced share repurchase program consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy and $72 million to primarily -- to partially offset shares issued under employee incentive plans mostly to cover employee withholding taxes due upon investing and payout of performance and restricted stock awards.
And as Jay said the Board raised our quarterly dividend from $0.55 to $0.61 per share and added an additional $5 billion for share repurchases.
So with all that let me now turn the mic over to Brian.
Thank you Jay.
Alan and Doreen will go over the individual segment results in a moment but before they do I want to make a few comments on the impact of weather and the operating environment in the domestic commercial market price.
Regarding the weather patterns continue to be unpredictable and that was clearly evidenced by another challenging quarter.
Weather losses in the first quarter of 2015 were slightly higher than the first quarter of 2014 but more importantly in both years we experienced losses above our expectations driven by the polar vortex last year and the extreme snowing cold in the northeast in 2015.
Much has been written about the snowfall in Boston this year which at over 110 inches was a record for the season.
But the real story is that nearly 95 inches of this snowfall came in just a 30-day period.
To show just how unusual that was the Washington Post cited a meteorologist who calculated that Boston should not expect to see another 30 days with that much snow for another “approximately 26 315 years.” Now I’m not sure what they meant by approximately but suffice it to say was an extremely unusual event.
As we think about the continuing unpredictability of weather patterns and our exposure to catastrophic weather losses our expectations for cat losses are significantly higher today than they were just six or seven years ago.
And importantly historically we would have expected to have been below budget absent a fairly significant Atlantic storm.
Unfortunately it has now become all too common for us to have significant cat losses from what we traditionally thought were the lower severity frequency events like tornado hail and winter storms.
So weather patterns are changing and accordingly we’re continuing to reassess and manage our property exposure and pricing in a thoughtful way.
Regarding the domestic commercial pricing environment we feel very good about the returns we are seeing in this business and we are encouraged by the continued stability of the market.
In the fourth quarter of 2010 we embarked on a strategy to improve the returns and profitability of our commercial business by increasing rate improving terms and conditions and focusing risk selection.
We said that we would execute on this strategy thoughtfully and in a manner that would not be disruptive to the marketplace.
Accordingly our initial goal was to achieve gradual rate increases eventually reaching a level that would drive significant improvement on the returns of our products over time.
And once our returns had reached the appropriate levels we hope to see rate moderate at a level that would allow us to sustain reasonable returns.
Looking back this is almost exactly what we have seen over the last four and half years.
And we couldn’t be more pleased not just in the results but in how we have achieved them.
We couldn’t have scripted it better.
And with that let me turn it over to Alan.
Thank you Brian.
Good morning.
I feel very good about our performance in business and international insurance this quarter.
Operating results were strong and importantly we were encouraged by the continued stability in the U.S.
marketplace as reflected in the facts that our retention is at a record level and we’re still achieving renewal rate gains.
As Brian said we could not have scripted this better.
The underlying combined ratio was 92.7% an increase of 3.2 points over the prior year quarter.
Eliminating the benefit from the state workers’ compensation assessment in last year’s first quarter the underlying combined ratio increased by about 1 point reflecting a typical level of quarterly fluctuation.
Particularly in light of the severe winter weather that Brian mentioned we feel great about the underlying profitability.
Turning to the top line net written premiums were up about 1% from the prior year quarter with the timing and structure of a number of reinsurance treaties and changes in foreign exchange rates having an adverse impact.
Domestic net written premiums were up about 2% but adjusting for the timing impact of the reinsurance treaties premiums were almost 3.5%.
In our international business net written premiums were down 7% driven by the adverse impact of foreign exchange.
The production results this quarter in our domestic business continue to be very encouraging.
As we’ve said in the last few quarters more of our business is achieving target returns.
And our objective has been to keep more of that business to our very granular account by account and class by class execution.
Record retention this quarter speaks to the success of that strategy.
Renewal premium change was down about 1 point from the fourth quarter of last year and within that pure renewal rate change was also down about 1 point.
Notably renewal rate change across most of our businesses has been steady for each of the three months within the current quarter.
Turning to select retention had a full year high and renewal premium change was strong at 7.3%.
Overall we’re pleased with the returns in this business and we’ll continue to seek high retentions and higher levels of new business.
In middle market retention was a very strong 87% with over 90% retention on our best performing segments.
Renewal rate change moderated less than 1 point in the fourth quarter to 1.1%.
In terms of new business we’re very pleased with the results in middle market this quarter.
As you’ve heard from us the impact of rate gains over the past four years has resulted in more new business opportunities that met our return threshold.
The amount of new business we wrote in the quarter was impacted by the high volume of new business activity in the marketplace.
January is a big month for new business submissions.
Also it’s worth noting that prior year quarter was particularly low from a new business standpoint.
So that obviously contributes to the quarter-over-quarter increase.
Our international business also posted solid production results.
Over the past several quarters renewal premium change has been steady and retention is trended up.
In the current quarter new business levels were lower than we would have liked largely reflecting our disciplined response to conditions in the Lloyd’s marketplace.
I’m pleased to note that as we announced last week we agree to increase our stake in the P&amp;C business with our Brazilian joint venture to 95% up from 49.5%.
We will maintain our 49.5% stake in the JV surety business.
Our P&amp;C business in Brazil is small.
We launched it in 2012 and wrote about $20 million of net written premium last year but we continue to see long term growth opportunities.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of this year subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
To sum it up we feel great about the quarter.
We’re focused on maintaining attractive returns and we’re well positioned to execute where we find opportunities.
And with that let me turn it over to Doreen.
Thank you Alan and good morning everybody.
Bond and specialty insurance started 2015 with a strong first quarter and we remain exceptionally pleased with the financial returns in this segment.
For the quarter operating income was a $124 million a reduction from the first quarter of 2014 due primarily to a lower level of net favorable prior year reserve development and lower net investment income.
Underlying underwriting results remained very strong and well within our target.
As for top-line net written premium for the quarter was essentially flat to 2014 for both on management liability and surety businesses.
Across our management liability businesses retention and new business premium were both slightly improved from recent quarters while RPC levels remained broadly consistent.
In sum not a lot of movement in the quarter to highlight for you and we continue to feel great about this segment’s result.
I’ll turn now to personal insurance where we also had a terrific first quarter with strong underwriting results in both Agency Auto and Agency Homeowners &amp; Other.
Operating income for the quarter was $252 million down slightly from the first quarter of 2014 due primarily to lower net investment income.
The underlying combined ratio was essentially flat to the prior year and had a level that we feel great about for the segment.
Looking at Agency Auto we once again delivered strong top-line and bottom-line results for the quarter and continued to be very pleased with the performance of this business.
The 90.2% combined ratio for the quarter benefited from approximately 3 points of favorable prior year reserve development which was driven by better than expected severity in bodily injury.
The underlying combined ratio of 93% was a slight improvement from an already strong 2014 and in a range we’re comfortable with.
Production results also continued to be strong driven by Quantum Auto 2.0; new business premium was 67% higher than the first quarter of 2014; and we continued to grow our policies in force which increased 21 000 during the quarter.
Net written premiums increased 4% from the prior quarter.
So by all measures great results for Auto for the quarter.
Turning to Agency Homeowners &amp; Other we once again delivered strong financial results and we’re making progress in production as we execute local product and pricing strategy.
The overall combined ratio of 74.4% was strong and benefited from favorable prior year reserve development.
The underlying combined ratio of 79.5% is also well within our return expectations for the quarter.
So financial results remain strong as we continue to execute our disciplined underwriting and pricing strategies.
As for Agency Homeowners production we said earlier that we continue to make progress.
New business premium was up almost 40% from the prior year quarter and continues to trend favorably.
We feel great about our market leading Homeowners’ capability and know this product is a critical component of the customer package.
Brian discussed the continued impact of weather.
With these considerations in mind and our strong financial results in this line we remain focused on improving our offering both product features and process improvements to be again growing this business again.
Based upon the new business trends we’re seeing we’re encouraged with our path.
Lastly on Agency Homeowners &amp; Other net written premium was down 5% primarily driven by the impact of changes in the timing and structure of certain of the company’s reinsurance treaties.
So to sum up personal insurance had excellent results and a great start to 2015.
And with that I will turn the call back to Gabi.
Thank you Doreen.
We are now ready for Q&amp;A.
And I would like to remind the participants to please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Go ahead.
Two part question on reserves especially in the commercial area.
I saw the comments that you took some CGL in 2005 and prior and work comp in 2007 and prior but one was wondering about more recent years in work comp and casualty lines if those need to season more? And two if you could provide your initial take on the 2012 and 2013 accident years and the question there is given that you are about 36 months out from there and we had a mini hard market in pricing in those years and I think evidence of lost cost trends remaining benign wondering how the 2012 and 2013 years are looking now that you can have a better view on that? This is Jay Benet.
I’ll try to wrap in some comments about all of that and some overview set.
So as it relates to the reserve development these years do have to season a bit for us to get a good look on what the longer tail liabilities are doing.
However having said that as you know we have a very robust and granular process for looking at our reserves.
So we look at them every quarter.
And if there are things that are developing either currently or from prior years that would have a rollover effect which we call base year movement into the current years will reflect that as appropriate.
So looking at the more seasoned years at this point in time we did take action to reduce reserves as you pointed out in general liability and workers’ comp for 2007 2005 and prior as we disclosed.
None of that really had a major impact on the more current years.
The current years haven’t developed in any meaningful way one way or the other at this point in time in the current quarter.
There have been actions in previous quarters some of the more recent accident years where we’ve made some minor adjustments.
But at this stage as I had indicated earlier there really was no meaningful unfavorable development taking place in any of our products any of our accident years.
And on the favorable side we’ve pointed out in a press release what that was.
And I guess the follow-up would be just kind of honing in on 2012 and 2013 and understanding they are not fully developed but there is some amount of time that’s passed.
I mean given the pricing that was better then do you have evidence that loss costs trends remained benign in that period of time or was there an elevation in loss cost trends in those years in particular.
I guess from what we’re seeing it seems like most loss cost trends for casualty have been incredibly benign especially in those years.
As we’ve said in previous calls we’re not seeing anything as it relates to loss cost trends that’s surprising to us or different from what our assumptions are.
These are of course very long liabilities.
So you are going to react in a prudent way to any changing information that you see.
And as it relates to this whole thing which we’re referring to as benign or whatever everything is really dependent upon what your reserving assumptions.
and as long as your reserving assumptions are based on what’s taking place in the marketplace you are not making adjustments for things which is not to say over time you wouldn’t look further at the data and see things that would cause you to recognize favorable development or God forbid unfavorable development.
But at this stage our reserves as we always do are best estimates of what we see today and we’ll just see how they develop going forward.
And it’s Jay Fishman.
Just let me add one point.
Couple of times in your question you referenced pricing and its impact on reserve.
And we just don’t -- pricing is not a factor as we set up reserves for our business.
Our reserves are driven by costs.
And the pricing what we sell it for is driven by the marketplace.
And so the notion that our reserves are sit differently in a different pricing environment is just wrong; it’s just not correct.
So what Jay I think is -- so far so good.
So far the estimates that we established in the years of which Jay referenced are continuing to stand up to whatever the developing trends are.
And our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
First question is on the margin and like classify the one point movements in terms of business margin deterioration as a quarterly fluctuation.
So just wonder has that one point impact by some non-cat large weather related losses and also going forward if you see your pricing continue to accelerate are we going to expect some continued margin expansion -- margin deterioration? Hi.
It’s Alan Schnitzer let me take that.
So the one point that we characterized is typical fluctuations maybe be rising from two components one in the loss side.
There is some fungibility of losses and we’re talking about a relatively small numbers.
So it’s hard to sort of necessarily pin point what those dollars were.
But as we look at our analytics and our losses what we really saw in the quarter was a very small you can count them on one hand a small number of large fires around the world; they contributed to after tax less than $20 million that maybe where that comes from.
The rest of it was on the expense side and there is always going to be some normal fluctuations in expenses from period-to-period.
In terms of the margin outlook you could certainly look what rate is doing and what loss trend is doing and do a very narrow quantitative analysis and say Gee! Margins are going to shrink.
We try to look at margins on a broader basis.
So lots of things other than the written rate and estimated loss trend that are going to impact margins going forward.
You’ve got things like volume exposure; mix; expenses; claim initiatives; weather large losses all those things every quarter are going to have an impact on our results.
And so at least the away we look at written rate and loss trend at the moment hard for us to say necessarily what margins going to do over the near-term.
And we take our best shot in giving you some perspective on that in the outlook section of the 10-Q.
So I would suggest that if you haven’t had a chance to look at that.
This is Jay Fishman.
One other observation your question and Alan’s answer is in respect of written rate versus loss trend.
Obviously on an earned basis as we look forward to the rest of this year looking over to Jay Benet to see from right we anticipate that earned margin will continue to modestly expand from here all other things being the same and they never are.
So I’m simply talking about the calculation of earned rate versus loss trend modestly; everybody’s pointing modestly here.
So it’s not a matter of this year.
I second the motion on Alan’s comment which is one is obviously the lower number than four and all other things being the same that would suggest some margin compression.
But again all other things are not the same exposure a meaningful portion of exposure; acts like rate; you get volume differences you get productivity efficiencies.
So it’s close.
And I would hesitate on concluding definitively that return margins and therefore some time down the future earned margins at this level will by definition reduce they may possible but it’s not -- it just isn’t that clear yet the numbers are just not -- that point is different.
I have follow up on the reserve side.
If you look at short tail of line releases over the past two years that account for a majority of the reserve releases having in two years.
I just wonder in hindsight because shorter line you would imagine probably little bit easier to reserve than the long tail lines and what has helped you guys in the past two years in terms of short line reserve releases and the sustainability of that going forward? We can’t talk about the sustainability of it because going back to our reserving philosophy we’re always reserving at best estimate.
So we feel like we talk about some of the things that have caused the reserves to develop favorably.
You say that short tail lines are easier to reserve for and it’s an interesting phenomenon that takes place.
If you are dealing with short tail and particularly if you’re dealing with property you have events that take place; in many cases they’re taking place in a current quarter where you’re coming up with the estimates in that quarter.
And even though it’s a short tail business you’re dealing with not a lot of claim information at that particular time.
So you’re looking at recent activity or historical activity to make judgments as to how those claims are going to develop; how the storms are going to develop.
And depending upon the nature of the storm where the storm hits you could have situations where you are thinking that a tornado has a lot of hail associated with it; you look at the history of how that’s developed and put up numbers and then as time goes on we found that we overshot the mark a little bit because that particular storm didn’t follow the pattern of previous storms in terms of the related hail damage.
So it’s like everything else in reserving; you have some data upon which to make assumptions and then you extrapolate from that; you make your best estimate and then you’re always adjusting it.
And in the case of short tail it conveys the higher fluctuations.
What I really mean by that is the period of time in which you find you’re making the adjustments is a relatively short period of time; it’s correcting quickly whereas in lines GL or workers’ company you can often that you’re seeing long-term trends and you’re evaluating them but the period of time in which you’re making the adjustments can often times be over several quarters or even several years it’s just data getting more solid.
So it’s an interesting aspect of reserving that I found intriguing when I first got involved in it.
But as it relates to the short tail lines you do see these fluctuations because you’re dealing sometimes with very very little data.
The next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Just two quick questions; the first question is for Doreen.
The results in Auto were strong.
Can you sort of expand on the loss costs comment? I think previously you’ve mentioned that loss trends have remained at around 3%; is it fairly unchanged in terms of where we are in the quarter? Yes it is.
We debated about whether to put that in and you’d ask us about it anyway.
So yes we do see the severity trends for Auto to be about 3% and that’s all in.
I guess -- I’m just trying to think; and that includes bodily injury as well.
That’s a little bit higher but when you blend everything it’s about 3%.
And sort of switching gears this might be for -- this is a question on the surety piece.
There have been recent press reports mentioning Malucelli and Petrobras; would it be possible to maybe talk about any go forward potential surety exposure you might have to this piece? It’s way too early for us to really have any assessment on the impact on us from a surety perspective.
This is just starting to unfold.
What I will say is that we’ve great confidence in our people down there; we’ve got great confidence in our underwriting; we manage our gross and net exposures pretty carefully; and together with our partner and our local team we continue to watch it.
We don’t have any reason at the moment to think that this is an outsized problem for us but I will reiterate that it’s early and we’re watching it.
The only thing I was going to add is that we remain very proud to be committed with J.
Malucelli as a partner and they are one of those finest companies in Brazil.
So with all of the discipline they bring and we bring it’s an unfortunate set of events but we feel like we’re in the best position that we can be with that partner.
And our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Go ahead.
Firstly I just had a question on the buyback.
The $5 billion authorization do you anticipate that taking roughly two years to complete? This is Jay Jay.
We’re not predicting what it is.
I mean we talk about our share repurchases as being driven by our earnings.
So depending upon what you and others feel our earnings look like going forward you can do the math as to how long you think that share repurchase authorization will be out there for our utilization.
And of course that’s in addition to the remainder of the previous authorization which I think was another 80 84 [ph].
So I think looking at what your projections are and looking at the utilization in the past you can come up with pretty good estimate of what you think it will be.
And then my follow-up question is on investment income.
Given the drop off in the other investment income and in the first quarter of fixed income investment income typically being seasonally highest in the first quarter if I put that together it looks like you could see at least a 10% decline in investment income after tax in 2015 maybe into the low-teens.
Is my math okay? I think there is two pieces to that one looking at the fixed investments we’ve put some disclosure in our Q as to what we thought the period-over-period decrease on a quarterly basis would be for fixed income NII.
And of course the drivers of that are two-fold.
One the lower interest rate environment as items mature either in the current quarter or really in the previous nine quarters as well they are getting reinvested at the lower rate.
So that will have an impact.
And also as we pointed out we paid the $579 million on the direct action so those funds are no longer in the investment portfolio.
And when you combine those two things you’re roughly at about a $30 million after-tax decrease on the fixed income NII.
As it relates to the non-fixed income portion we’ve provided you data on what the composition of the portfolio is.
You’ve seen the historical yields associated with it.
I don’t have a crystal ball to say how the economy is going to perform and whatever.
We’ve tried to give information as it relates to the impact of the oil price decline and the feeling like we’ve hopefully gotten to a point whether vast majority of whatever re-pricing or revaluations will take place have been captured.
But I think you need to make your own estimates as to what you think that part of the portfolio will be.
It’s Jay Fishman.
I will give it to Bill Heyman in a second just two points.
I am not clear what your comment about seasonality in net investment income is that…? On the fixed income investment income for the year seasonally it is highest in the first quarter? No it’s seasonally -- it declines; these are just bond.
Don’t interpret that seasonality one there [ph] it’s just yield; that’s all it is; it’s the same bonds...
If I look at first quarter every year it seems like the first quarter is the highest and then it shows off and… There is nothing about the fixed income -- our fixed income portfolio that has any seasonality to it whatsoever.
Other than as time progresses and more of the portfolio is reinvested at lower rates we’ve been saying it for years now the net investment income will go down over time.
No seasonality in that number at all.
As it relates to the energy dynamic I would point out that we put out a schedule in last quarter’s webcast which summarized our private equity investments and what we thought was.
And we defined as the energy space; my recollection is that somewhere around $760 million or so inclusive I think.
We have to go back; I am working from memory.
But it’s not insignificant but hardly overwhelming.
So those are the two points I’d add on investment income.
Jay it’s Bill Heyman.
What you see as seasonality is really a degradation of book yield that’s gone on now for three years or four years.
And we calculate it more or less to the basis points and quarter-by-quarter.
And so that slope -- the slope of the slope will change over time.
But the direction of the slope will persist for a while.
Our basic allocation here which is 93% and 94% to fixed income is designed so that even if investments other than fixed income don’t perform which we know on occasion they won’t our interest revenues assuming we collect them even at these levels are enough to give the company a shot at an overall ROE in our target range.
And that’s the policy and that’s not really an accident.
In terms of the non-fixed income portfolio I know we’re making the comparison this morning to the first quarter of 2014 but I think it’s instructed to look at this quarter against the fourth quarter of 2014 and then the fourth quarter against the third quarter of 2014.
And you can see that for non-fixed income investment as a whole and the webcast and the bottom right of page six but that includes the entire university.
In private equity the decline over the last two quarters was pronounced.
So this doesn’t come as too much of a surprise.
And given the elevated levels of the first three quarters of 2014 you can see comparisons like this again for a couple of quarters yet.
What I think we can say is that since we receive results and report them to you on a quarterly lag we try to go behind them and look at marketing conditions and determine whether there is in the portfolio some embedded but yet unreported loss that means that these marks are less accurate.
We don’t see that.
Obviously our vision isn’t perfect.
But Jay Benet alluded to developments in oil prices and in the publicly held securities of these funds and we looked at equity markets generally but it is what it is.
And for what is worth real estate this quarter performed very well at levels equal to first quarter 2014.
Hedge funds performed better; the shortfall was in private equity and 50% of it came from 15% of the portfolio.
So that’s the story.
Next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
Go ahead.
Jay I wanted to ask a follow up question on the Kai’s question about where we are on pricing relative to loss trends and how that implies your future margins.
So I guess I’m really curious where do you think the breakeven point is going to be for future margin compression? If we sort of dial back I think a year ago maybe 3% to 4% is what a lot of companies were saying you’d want to cover loss trend with and now it’s been 1.4% versus maybe the CPI something approaching to.
I know there is lots of moving pieces; you mentioned some of them.
But where do you think the level is that we think might be margin compression kind of pricing levels? And if you don’t mind the question; you guys have led us through this pricing cycle so far; will you draw line in the sand to preserve margins before you get to that point? First we really don’t perseverate annually as much as perhaps you will do on weather margins or a little bit wider or a little bit smaller.
We’ve got -- I don’t know the last time I looked we have close to 1 million commercial lines accounts each one of them are priced one at a time.
And so the notion that we somehow think or manage with that level of granular dynamic is just -- it’s almost we occasionally show you the distribution of rate gains across the entire book and that should impress you with the diversity of it that every account is priced on its own.
So I start off first with philosophical answer to that not that I won’t try and answer your question; the honest answer to it is that I just don’t know.
What we do believe what we are currently recording is an aggregate overall loss trend of 4%.
That remains across our entire commercial book; our business book unchanged; it’s independent of whatever CPI numbers come out or producer price index.
We were pretty granular about our loss trend and feel that we try hard to get right.
The reason we try and get it right is a whole lot less about reserving than it is pricing.
We price our product to losses and if we don’t have our losses right we are not going to get right price so we get very driven and very focused on that.
So if you wanted to do just simple arithmetic let’s say unless you get four points of written rate all other things being the same margins will begin to go down but all other things are just not the same.
Exposure we’ve talked about this many times in the past has a fair amount of activity in it that looks like rate acts like rate an example would be an increase in property limits on a building.
You collect what premium rent it; there are more limits at risk but absent the total loss that number will act in the calculation equivalent to rate.
And so when we start trying to analyze it the best answer that we can give you right now is it closed; it’s closed.
But again it’s not as if we perseverate much at all on whether it’s up a little bit or took me not up down a little bit or flat; it’s just not -- we think about returns over time not about -- importantly not about margin in any given quarter returns over time it’s how we think about it.
So that’s sort of our outlook.
In terms of lines in the sand we always enjoy that.
It’s nothing different about that.
One of the things that’s impressive to me and Alan shared some of this data with your couple of quarters ago: I’m sure it’s dated.
We don’t even quote on round numbers.
60% of the request reports that we get in commercial accounts; it varies 60% to 70% something like that.
Am I close on that still just wanted? And so the line in the sand starts right there.
It’s not as if -- we don’t quote on more business than we do quote.
And then our hit rate is a function of that smaller quote rate.
So we draw lines in the sand every single day at every account; it’s not a philosophical line in the sand it’s an account by account philosophical line in the sand.
And that’s just so important.
We don’t pressure underwriters for volume we don’t.
If you do you will get volume; you won’t like what you get; that’s been our philosophy but you will get it.
We let them run their business with tremendous amounts of data like adults making thoughtful decisions managing it for the long-term.
So now we draw lines in the sand all the time.
I would just add to that in terms of the line in the sand.
As you heard from us we are return focused and that’s our objective as we underwrite account by account or class by class and that return will take into account interest rates; competitive conditions in the marketplace; everything else.
So why we are drawing lines in the sand on account we’re not going to look at some magical return and going to say that’s it we’re stopping.
That’s going to change and it’s going to take in account all the facts and circumstances over time.
One of the questions that we’ve been asked over a long period of time and our answer has been the same.
To us the leading indicator about lack of stability in the market and the way in which you can best assess the sort of near term is retention.
It is really to me personally given my experience is remarkable that we had a record retention in our domestic business insurance business while still getting positive renewal rate.
I just think that’s really quite remarkable and speaks to the stability of the business.
If you want to get a sense of churn you look at retention.
And I’m getting a little long in the tooth but I go back to the late 60s when retentions in the middle market were in high 60s; 70 was considered a pretty stable month.
This quarter in the middle market we were like in the 87%; it just shows you the magnitude of the difference and really I think just reinforces the way in which we run the business.
Jay that’s really helpful.
As we sort of think about simplifying now this my guess and one follow up on that then I’ll let you guys move.
If I integrate what you’ve all just said which I think is sort of near your breakeven point on margin compression and you’re happy with rates but in your outlook you said that basically that you expected pricing to be broadly consistent for the rest of the year with level was in the first quarter.
Did that mean we should basically be interrupting that as sort of the slowing pricing trend of the past seven or eight quarters which has been relatively stable kind of stop here where I see you guys try to keep pricing where it is here for foreseeable future? So again I’ve got to fall back to the account by account discussion because that’s how we think of pricing not as a single manifest order to the organization.
Some underwrite is sitting with an agent and they’re talking about an account that’s had -- and I use this example all the time three consecutive years of price increases and that account has been doing just fine.
And the agent and the underwriter come to conclusion that it’s appropriate to renew that account flat we are off for it; we are off for that; no issue at all.
If the conversation is that the account absorbs a tremendous amount of cost and risk management and loss experience is kind of marginal and therefore we should be asking for a fourth consecutive increase we will.
It’s by the account.
What is true over all is that more of our business has moved into what one would consider return good return acceptable than it was two three four years ago.
So as low as account by account decisions get made they get made in a different framework of return to the company.
We think that’s great couldn’t be happier about the way our field underwriters execute on that.
So it’s not a matter of us sending out a message that says stop here.
We never would say that.
Our message is look at the account; look at the cost; look at the expenses; look at the load; look at the class of business; do you want it part of your portfolio; does the account have stability? Use your best judgment do the right thing and we leave it to them.
And that’s -- so I can’t -- if rate were to go flatten from here and people were pursuing that it’d be fine in the aggregate.
If rate were to go down in another point and they were pursuing in that strategy it’d define.
The rate in the end is the result of tens of thousands of transactions not a single order that’s given out to the field.
And just to that I would just add that on our most challenged segments of business we continue to get rate in excess of loss trend.
Yes that actually is so darn important because it speaks to the granularity of the strategy that where accounts are not meeting our return expectations.
We already drove in affecting and come back to that; we draw the line and we’re we’re getting rate at that point exceeding loss trend.
So so important for us.
Next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead.
Maybe if we could talk a little bit about the personal agency channel bid.
Clearly Quantum is having a positive impact.
It looks you are winning business; getting rate and keeping retentions high and the margins look good.
Just trying to understand sort of the competitive environment there and what’s giving you the ability to win consistently post that Quantum 2.0 change? And is it an area of focus a demographic or a scale advantage possibly building risk profile of the book something else that’s giving you an opportunity to continue you to generate positive new business there? Thanks.
Hi Mike; this is Doreen.
Let me just bring it back probably a year or so so you know what we put in place.
But we actually did some back testing and what we needed to do to be more competitive in the customer segment that we wanted.
And when we looked at that we thought that our expenses needed to be adjusted.
And so that’s what we did.
We took the $140 million out of our operating costs as well as reduced the commission on the new products.
And what we told our agents -- so first of all I want to give them great credit because notwithstanding that sort of salary change they were great partners and supported that.
And what we told them was we wanted them to be competitive across channels.
We weren’t doing this just so they could switch one company’s business to us.
We wanted them to be able to compete with a captive and the direct writers.
And while I wouldn’t say that the price points are always what those companies are it made us and them much more competitive in those customer segments.
But I mean the whole thing you need an organization that’s willing to execute to that; you need strong agency relationships; and at the end of the day you need a product that people want.
And have competitors reacted to kind of post this success or they kind of stuck with their? I am sure you can see from your own win rate have others tried to replicate this success or are you still able to hold that lead? We can see it in little pockets Mike but nobody has really taken the approach of adjusting their cost base.
So if they are doing that with pricing we can see a little bit of that but nothing where we’ve seen a major restructure so that the offering would be similar.
Got it.
And then you mentioned direct really quickly; I am just curious I mean there is obviously a little bit more increasing certainly led [ph] on some new entrants into the direct channel.
Just given and maybe if we talk a little about the direct initiative at Travelers and how you are thinking about investments there and the potential for do any of these new market participants do they provide an opportunity for Travelers or is it something that you are just kind of wait and see at this point? And thank you so much for all the answers.
On the direct to consumer initiative I think Jay and Greg have talked about this in the past.
And we still feel like there is a very strong value proposition for the customers that we have and the advice that they get from agents.
We just haven’t seen sort of a run on the bank that maybe would have been predicted a decade ago.
That being said we also think it’s very prudent to make sure that we have multiple channels of business because our goal is the customers that we like we would like to bring in the door anyway they’d want to come in.
All that being said I know there has been some talk about some entrants in the marketplace.
And I think I would tell you our view is to just evaluate and wait and see what that might bring.
We’ve made no decisions and we’re in observation mode.
It’s jay Fishman.
I’d add a couple of points; Doreen’s got it all right which is that one of the things that is and we’ve said this before nothing new in this but increasingly it’s in the data.
The nature of the customer who chooses to buy directly is a different customer than that which seeks advice.
And it’s not just the nature of the customer but it’s the risk management need.
So broadly speaking and this comes from our experience with being a GEICO partner from many many years the percentage of renters and amongst GEICO customer is a multiple of what the renter population is in our agency business.
The percentage of minimum and low limit buyers for Auto who buy direct are a multiple of those low limits or minimum limits that buy directly.
Now that’s not a 100% and it’s not an absolute statement but broadly speaking you would say that the nature of the risk management needs based upon data not anecdotal; not television customers but based upon the data is that they are different.
Now that’s in effect really good news for us because the agency business that we direct our attention to has been much more resilient and robust than people 10 years ago might have suggested.
Sure.
Maybe that changes in the future; it’s possible and it would be foolish of us to be arrogant enough to say that that customer could never be attracted.
And so we’re going to continue to develop the technology such that if that business dynamic changes we’re in a position to respond.
But several quarters ago our conclusion was and we shared with you that the nature of the customer that we seek is not yet buying enough through direct channel that the business is a scalable business around that.
To make it scalable you have to be as that different sentiment and that’s just not our sweet spot.
So I’d say Gee! It would have been nice if the direct channel would have developed more robustly.
But believe me when I tell you as I had to pick one versus the other going into this I’m much happier that the Agency channel has remained more robust than people would have suspected.
And the next question comes; the final question comes from the line of Jay Cohen Bank of America.
Go ahead.
Just a couple of clean up questions the first is can you discuss what the non-cat weather was in the quarter because with all these winter storms certainly in the northeast it was hard to tell what was cat and non-cat.
So were the non-cat numbers elevated at all? Yes Jay; this is Jay Benet.
We actually had only one storm raise to the level of a cat for us.
So most of the winter storm activity that took place this quarter was non-cat weather as we described or differentiate between cat versus non-cat.
And looking at this year versus last and I think Brain made the comment the weather in this quarter was heightened from what we would think of as a -- if there is such a thing anymore as a normal quarter was heightened from that.
Last year was also a heightened weather quarter.
And while the data is -- it’s the voluminous data but it’s also challenging data to say exactly this is a weather loss; this isn’t a weather loss.
The feeling around here is that the weather losses this year were elevated from the weather losses last year but they weren’t off the charts different they were just a bit higher than they were last year.
That would be the feeling we get from the data.
So higher than normal; whatever normal is these days; a bad winter season last year; bad winter season this year; this year all in a little higher than last year and that would go for both cats as well as non-cat.
And then the second question was you talked about I guess some of the changes in reinsurance and the impact on premiums.
Can you discuss those changes and what drove the premium impact? The primary one is the change in the cat program that we announced last quarter.
As you recall our cat reinsurance was generally done was always done on July 1 and the new cat aggregate treaty that we put in place was the January 1 deal.
So the premium for that is primarily what we’re seeing in this quarter through the seeded line that’s impacting the quarter-over quarter comparisons because last year there was no premium for that.
It shows up in the quarter and which is amortized to be clear.
Alright whereas last year in the third quarter of 2014 we would have seen a similar payment taking place; whereas on July 1 on this year we will not be making that payment because we’ve already made it.
Is easier comparison in July should be up a little bit more than expected? Yes.
Very good.
Thank you all for joining us today.
And as always we’ll be available Investor Relations for any follow up questions.
Thank you and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Have a great rest of the day everyone.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all your questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on July 21 2015.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Carlos.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our second quarter 2015 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer; Alan Schnitzer Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Business and International Insurance; and Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Claim Personal Insurance and Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you have seen our second quarter results and as you can see from the release it was another strong quarter contributing to a very strong first half of 2015.
We reported operating income of $806 million and an operating return on equity of 14.2% bringing our year-to-date results to $1.6 billion in operating income and a 14.3% operating return on equity.
We achieved these results through strong underwriting performance and solid investment performance consistent with our expectations.
Most importantly our long-term average annual operating return on equity now stands at 13.4% well in excess of a cost of capital.
This quarter is another brick in the wall of exceptional long-term performance.
For all of the recent market commentary about the industry our experience remains business as usual.
At the point of sale where business is actually conducted that is one agent one underwriter dealing with one account things are very stable and just fine.
In fact the commercial insurance marketplace dynamics over the last six months have been remarkably consistent with what we believe would happen and have been far different from the historical conventional wisdom.
We continue to believe that the amplitude of the cyclicality that our industry will deal with is much less than would have been the case historically and you can trace that comment back to our Investor Day in May of 2007; and of course while things can change so far so good.
Anticipating that some of you are going to ask us about our take on the recent consolidation in the primary P&amp;C industry let me make a few observations.
No primary P&amp;C insurer has come together over the past two decades through acquisition activity more than we have.
We are very good at it and while we haven't announced any mega transactions in a number of years our shareholders should expect that we are aware of the possibilities and that we are expert at evaluating them.
That evaluation comes down to determining the best way to create shareholder value.
The return driven strategy that we’ve been executing for nearly a decade now has been highly successful in creating shareholder value.
Our total return to shareholders over virtually whatever period you want to pick is at the top of the heap.
So when we evaluate M&amp;A opportunities which we do all the time we evaluate them against that standard.
As it relates to Chubb when we consider the modest opportunity to improve the performance of an already high performing company with some of the best people in the industry the high degree of risk inherent in combining two successful but very different cultures and the significant impact on returns on equity from the combination of the premium we expect it would be required as well as all of the required purchase accounting adjustments.
The return just didn't measure up.
We have the luxury of a plan A that sets a very high bar a strategy that comes from having highly differentiated competitive advantages and highly successful business franchises with industry-leading product breath.
Again we believe that our total return to shareholders over the recent past as well as over the longer term speaks for itself and we are confident in our ability to continue to deliver superior returns but we do keep looking at M&amp;A opportunities and when we believe there is a transaction that contributes to creating shareholder value we will make every effort to complete it.
Other than addressing the potential market implications of the transaction which Brian will do I hope this addresses your questions on the topic.
We really don't expect to comment further on that recently announced transaction.
And with that I’m going to turn the call over to Jay Benet.
Thanks Jay.
As Jay said we are very pleased with our second quarter results.
Operating income of $806 million up 20% from the prior year quarter and operating return on equity of 14.2%.
Current quarter operating income was driven by a very strong consolidated combined ratio of 90.8% which was 4.3 points better than the prior year quarter due to strong underlying underwriting performance continued net favorable prior year reserve development and lower catastrophe losses as well as the inclusion of a $32 million benefit from the favorable resolution of prior year tax matters.
Operating income was also driven by solid net investment income consistent with our expenses expectations although lower than in the prior year quarter.
Brian Alan and Doreen will talk more about underlying results in a little while so let me say a few words about NII.
As was the case in the first quarter current quarter net investment income is being compared to a very strong quarter last year.
Fixed income NII of $431 million after-tax is down $32 million from the prior year quarter principally due to what we have been saying for many years securities that had higher book yields have run-off during the past 12 months and have been replaced with securities having lower yields due to the current interest rate environment.
Another contributing factor to lower fixed income NII was the modest reduction in average investments that resulted in part from the company's $579 million first quarter 2015 payment to settle the Asbestos Direct Action Litigation.
Non-fixed income NII of $79 million after-tax was down $16 million from the prior year quarter due to lower returns for energy-related private equity investments.
These investments produced negative NII of $9 million after-tax this quarter which was better than the negative NII of $21 million in the first quarter as compared to positive NII of $11 million after tax in the prior year quarter.
As I mentioned earnings continues to benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development which amounted to $207 million pre-tax this quarter up $24 million from the prior year quarter.
In business and international insurance net favorable development of $103 million pretax resulted from better than expected loss experience in several different product lines including workers comp for accident years 2006 and prior GL for 2008 through 2013 Lloyd’s in Canada and property in both CMP and the property product line for more recent accident years partially offset by a $47 million after-tax versus $72 million pretax increase to environmental reserves.
In bond and specialty insurance net favorable development of $40 million pretax resulted from better than expected loss experience in contract surety for 2010 through 2013.
And in personal insurance net favorable development of $64 million pretax resulted from better than expected loss experience in homeowners and other liability for 2011 through 2014; and for non-CAT weather-related losses for 2014 as well as better than expected loss experience in auto liability for 2012 through 2014.
On a combined stat basis for all of our U.S.
subs there were no accident years or product lines that had any meaningful unfavorable development this quarter or year to date.
Second quarter operating cash flows were also strong at $676 million up $51 million from the prior year quarter while holding company liquidity ended the quarter at over $1.7 billion and all of our capital ratios remained at or better than their target levels.
Net unrealized investment gains were approximately $2.1 billion pretax or $1.4 billion after tax down from $3 billion and $2 billion respectively at the beginning of the year due to the recent rise in interest rates causing book value per share at $77.51 to grow by only 1% from the beginning of the year.
Importantly adjusted book value per share of $73.09 which eliminates the impact of unrealized investment gains grew by 3% during this time period.
We continue to generate much more capital than we needed to support our business and consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy we returned almost $1 billion of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter through dividends of $194 million and common share repurchases of $801 million bringing total capital returned to shareholders to almost $1.85 billion year-to-date.
Before turning the microphone over to Brian there is one more topic I would like to cover our cat reinsurance coverage.
As you may recall effective January 1 of this year we significantly increased the attachment point of our Gen CAT reinsurance by replacing our previous Gen CAT treaties the $400 million CAT aggregate of excess of loss treaty which expired as scheduled on December 31 and the $400 million Gen CAT treaty which our reinsurers agreed to terminate early as of that date with the new aggregate ex-OL treaty that provides coverage for both single events and accumulation of losses from multiple events.
$1.5 billion of coverage part of $2 billion excess of $3 billion after $100 million deductible per occurrence.
By doing this we retain the same broad pharaoh and geographic coverage as the former Gen CAT and ex-OL treaties while positioning the coverage layer to provide a significant buffer between earnings and capital.
During the second quarter we repositioned our Northeast specific cat coverage lowering its attachment point from about $2 billion while maintaining its maximum recovery.
Our current combination of two Northeast CAT bonds and the new Northeast Gen CAT reinsurance treaty attaches at $1.058 billion of covered losses and provides $1.4 billion of coverage through $3.1 billion the point at which the Gen CAT aggregate ex-OL treaty takes over.
Taken collectively we increased our potential reinsurance recoveries and repositioned the attachment points to more closely align with the risks in our business while spending essentially the same amount.
A more complete description of our captains reinsurance coverage including a description of new earthquake and international coverage’s is included in our second quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier today as well as in our 2014 10-K.
So with that now let me turn the mic over to Brian who is going to speak about underwriting results.
Thank you Jay.
Alan and Doreen will go over the segment details but before they do I want to make a few comments about the macro environment.
Echoing Jay's comments we're certainly very pleased with our results both in the quarter and for the first half of 2015.
We are at a 90% combined ratio year-to-date very strong retention stable renewal price increases and no major surprises in our loss trend.
In fact results like this or what we spend our carriers hoping to achieve and here we are but importantly we didn't get here by accident.
We did it with the relentless and consistent execution on our strategies and by investing in and developing a broad rapid products and services and other meaningful sustainable competitive advantages in the markets we serve.
But while we feel great and want to talk about how well we’re positioned I suspect many of you are also interested in our thoughts on the impact that the ACE/Chubb transaction may have on the marketplace.
So let me share a few thoughts on that.
First we already compete against these two companies more so Chubb than ACE given our business and geographic focus and we don’t anticipate a lot of difference in competing against them as a single entity.
Any company that is large enough can disrupt the market if it’s willing to accept meaningfully lower returns over time but both ACE and Chubb were probably large enough to have done that before the transaction so we don’t see that risk being any different going forward.
Second we have great long-term and trusted relationships with our important broker and agent partners and we don’t see that being disrupted.
We remain a leading independent agency commercial insurer in our principal market the United States.
And in Personal lines we are the leading independent agency market in the Homeowners business and we don’t generally compete in the high-end home product which is Chubb’s primary personal line focus.
Third having completed a number of large scale transactions ourselves we know that there inevitably will be disruption and dislocation of people and business.
This will likely create near- and medium-term opportunities and it’s possible we will benefit from these.
Obviously only time will tell what the long-term impact maybe.
But as I said before we feel great about Travelers.
We remain very pleased with how our business is performing and more importantly how well we are positioned for opportunities in this marketplace going forward.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’m sure that many of you have seen that recently we made some senior level organizational changes and I want to recognize a few of those folks on their new responsibility.
Greg Toczydlowski who’s done a fabulous job managing our personal insurance business is moving over to business insurance to oversee our small commercial operation as well as take on responsibilities for technology operations and business platforms across all of Business Insurance.
Michael Klein who had been managing our middle market commercial business will take Greg’s spot in Personal.
Michael has had a broad range of experiences in his 25-plus years with the company and his management skills knowledge of analytics in our products make him a perfectly suited to run the personal business.
Marc Schmittlein who for the last 12 years has led our small commercial business will take on the role of coordinating our cyber insurance efforts across our business.
We see cyber coverage as an important opportunity in the marketplace.
Scott Higgins will assume leadership of our middle market commercial business and Darren Hinshaw [ph] has been appointed Chief Operating Officer of Personal Insurance.
We are thrilled that we have this depth of management talent and the collaborative culture in which great people can thrive.
After all in this industry when we talk about competitive advantages we start with talent and culture and to succeed you need both of them.
With that let me turn it over to Alan to cover the Business Insurance and International segment.
Thank you Brian and good morning.
We delivered another quarter of strong performance in business and international insurance with operating income of $543 million.
Our underlying combine ratio was relatively consistent with the prior year quarter at 93.1% reflecting attractive and stable product returns.
In terms of the top line net written premiums decreased by a little over 1% from the prior year quarter.
This was driven by our international business where net written premiums were down 15% primarily as a result of the adverse impact of foreign exchange.
Domestic business insurance net written premiums were up about a 0.5.
In terms of our domestic production results as Jay said we remain pleased with the stability of the market as evidenced by historically high retention and positive rate change.
We’ve commented for some time now that this pricing has improved more of our portfolio is generating attractive returns and our objective has been to retain more of that business.
We’ve now posted a very strong 84% retention for two consecutive quarters.
As you can see on slide 9 excluding the impact of our large account property business which I will get back to in a minute positive renewal rate change and domestic BI was unchanged from the first quarter.
Our ability to deliver these results comes from the excellent execution by our field organization of our very granular account by account and class by class strategy.
Turning to slide 10 in the webcast in select retention hit a 6 year high while renewal premium change moderated only slightly.
In middle market we posted a very strong retention and steady sequential renewal premium change.
Notably within renewal premium change renewal rate change has been remarkably steady over the past five months.
In terms of retention we are retaining around 90% of our best performing business while achieving renewal rate gains in excess of loss trend on our worst performing business.
New business and middle market was down year-over-year.
While we like the marketplace stability one consequence of the stable market is the submission flow was down somewhat.
In other domestic business insurance while renewal rate change turned negative this quarter as you can see on slide 12 of the webcast the decrease is driven by national property our large account property business.
Excluding the impact of national property renewal rate change in other domestic BI would have been a positive 1.9%.
To put it in context national property accounts were about 25% of the net written premium and other domestic BI were only about 5% of the net written premium in this segment.
Even with the rate change in national property current pricing levels and returns in that business are attractive and accordingly we have successfully driven retention to near record levels.
In our international business retention continues to be strong and steady at 82% while renewal premium change of 1.5% was consistent with last quarter.
New business is down over the prior year quarter primarily as a result of disciplined underwriting and a competitive environment in Lloyd’s and the impact of foreign exchange rates.
To sum it up we are pleased with the stability in the marketplace and the results we delivered in the quarter and with the depth and breadth of our talent particularly in the field our deep analytical capabilities and our market leading products and services we are well positioned to continue to deliver superior results.
And with that let me turn it over to Doreen.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Bond and speciality insurance had another strong quarter with exceptional financial returns.
For the quarter operating income was $151 million a reduction from the second quarter of 2014 driven by a lower level of net favourable prior year reserve development partially offset by a favourable resolution of prior year tax matters.
Underlying underwriting results remain very strong and well within our target.
As for top line net written premiums were generally flat to 2014.
Across our management liability businesses retention and new business premiums picked up modestly while renewal premium change was down slightly.
So great results for this segment.
I will now turn to personal insurance where we also had another terrific quarter with strong underwriting results in both agency auto and agency homeowners and other.
For this segment operating income for the quarter was $174 million up significantly from the second quarter of 2014 due primarily to lower cat and non-cat weather and higher net favourable prior year reserve development.
The underlying combined ratio improved by more than a point from the prior year quarter driven by favourable non-cat weather.
We continue to feel great about the margins in this segment.
Looking at agency auto we once again delivered strong top and bottom line results for the quarter and continue to be very pleased with the performance of this business.
The 96.5% combined ratio for the quarter included 2.5 points of favourable prior year reserve development which was driven by better than expected severity in bodily injury.
The underlying combined ratio of 96.9% continues to run in a range we are comfortable with given current market condition.
This result was up modestly from the prior year quarter due to a variety of small items including non-cat weather which although materially favourable for homeowners was slightly adverse year-over-year for auto.
Our loss trends remain consistent with recent quarters.
Production results also continued to be strong driven by Quantum Auto 2.0 where we are now coming up on two years since the start of the roll out.
New business premium was 37% higher than the second quarter of 2014 and we continue to grow policies in force which increased more than 35 000 during the quarter.
Net written premiums increased 7% from the prior year quarter.
So by all measures great results for auto for the quarter.
Turning to agency homeowners and other we once again delivered strong financial results with an underlying combined ratio of 77.5% a 4 point improvement from the prior year quarter driven by relatively benign non-cat weather.
Margins in this business remain well within our return expectations.
As for agency homeowners production we are very pleased with the progress we’re making.
New business premiums were up 33% from the prior year quarter and continued to trend favorably while retention remained strong.
Policies in force have leveled off and net written premiums are essentially flat from the prior year so the book has stabilized.
As we have said in prior quarters this is an area of high focus for growth and we’re encouraged with the positive results we’re seeing.
So to sum up personal insurance another great quarter; and with that I’ll turn the call back to Gabi.
Thank you.
We’ll now take questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Carlos go ahead.
Thank you so much.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi great thank you very much.
So Travelers has followed the kind of the moderation in price decreases we've seen across commercial lines and so I was wondering if we could go a little more into detail and what you’re seeing out there what's causing that headline pricing number to moderate more as it approaches the zero level? Randy it's Alan's Schnitzer I’ll take that.
You guys focus on the headline rate number a lot more than we do.
We’re looking at this on an account by account basis and it will build up to whatever builds up to and at least in our performance I think what you see is as more of our business is reaching rate adequacy our objective is to keep that business not to continue to necessarily get price on it.
So it really is a function of more of that business going over four years of rate increases to rate adequate for us and what you see in the headline number is just the aggregation of all those individual transactions.
But is there I know we focus on that number but it is important for us is there more kind of more consistency or more rational behavior in the environment is there less I mean I know Travelers is a big company and there is a lot going on like property for instance.
But is there kind of less bad behavior out there in the most recent quarter compared to what we saw later last year? Yes so Randy I didn't mean to suggest that the number is not important I’m just suggesting we focus on it differently than you do because we’re executing really on a very very granular basis and we’re looking at it one account at a time but to get back to your other question I think when we talk about the market ourselves among ourselves and we talk to our field organization we would say that by and large it does appear to be a pretty rational marketplace and it appears that there is a real return focus in the industry.
This is Jay Fishman.
I think it’s absolutely right.
And Brian spoke about it as well it’s - any one company if it’s large enough and is willing to accept subpar returns over time can affect the marketplace from a pricing perspective that’s not been the case it’s not been the case for a long time.
Now why that is I actually think a lot of it is data and analytics and the fact that people actually understand their returns better than they did 10 years ago.
No one would open knowingly say well I’m pricing this to produce subpar returns I think that happened to some extent accidentally not intentionally and so I think the data is different than the business it’s been different for some time.
I get asked all the time are we pleased or not that other people seem to be getting good at it? I think it is great.
I think the more people understand the cost of goods sold in our business and the risks associated with it the more we look like a normal financial services business and less of one that’s operating in the dark.
So I think that we may have led this and I’m sure we did but the fact is that you see it in virtually everyone’s reporting greater reliance on analytics and return focus and that's I think what's causing it.
We’re allowing it to happen perhaps is a better expression.
And Randy the other thing I would point you to is the rate at which insurance companies by and large are returning capital to shareholders and if you look at that trend over long period of time I think you will see a lot more capital being returned.
So to the extent capital can't be deployed at acceptable returns I think you see a trend toward getting it back.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley please go ahead.
Good morning thank you.
The first question regarding to the full -- the pricing trend.
Just wonder if that -- if the trend stabilized will we see the margin also stabilizing at this level or there could potentially be some margin pressure relatively to the loss cost or inside? Yes Kai it’s Alan let me take that as well.
And I guess it depends on how you look at it.
So let's just say rates are point or point and a half at the moment.
We've said that loss trend is running at about four so if you are looking on a very narrow basis at the relationship of those two things maybe you’d say that rate isn't covering loss trend but there is obviously a lot more in margin.
So you’ve got volume mix claims handling practices underwriting initiatives expenses whether all those things come through the margin every quarter and there is always going to be moments in those things.
So I would say that were rate and loss trend are sort of too close to call where margins are going to drift over time given the current relationships of those two things.
So our non-CAT weather benefits the quarter overall? Non-CAT weather in weather overall in the quarter compared to the prior year was favorable if you take CATs and small weather.
Small weather was about the same year-over-year.
Okay great.
A follow-up question.
You know what Kai I am sorry about that.
I was looking at the wrong number.
There was a benefit to quarter and small weather.
Great.
Follow up question on management succession Jay you have been running the firm fabulously well like for the past 10 years and you also like some management change recently show you have a deep bench there.
I just wonder what is the board consideration about manage succession planning? Actually thank you for asking that question.
I will actually answer it a little bit broader just in case anybody really wants to but it is uncomfortable because it is a perfectly reasonable question given our announcement a year ago about my health status to ask about what's going on.
So first I would observe that we’ve been I would say as open as anyone can be about my own personal health status.
And more importantly perhaps most importantly I’ve kept my partners and the Board of Directors here completely price knowledgeable as I've done along in that process.
I am very much on the job and fully engaged and at least from my own perspective there is no decline in my cognitive scale may be others around here might disagree but I don't feel I'm struggling in that regard.
Now we've always taken succession planning seriously whether it was five years ago when I was 57 if I did the math correctly or now that I'm going to be 63 and dealing with health issue it’s no different we take it as seriously now as we did then and there is absolutely a plan in place with certainty I will tell you that and for the moment all good and when we have more to say about succession and given the fact that I'm going to be 63 we will have more to say we're going to say it and until then I’m on the job and we’re doing just fine.
Great well thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs please go ahead.
Thank you.
I guess one question maybe for both Jay Fishman and Jay Benet on the capital generation capital deployment timing recently you been deploying more cash than you’ve generated when we look at operating cash flows and the deduction for dividends and buybacks is that something that you expect to continue to do just given capital efficiency that you're generating and you know when we think about potential M&amp;A or capacity for M&amp;A or maybe a desire to do something to bolt something on does that pattern need to change to be able to create more of a base to start from? Thanks.
We’re both to answer that because I think there are parts of it that are relevant to both of us.
I just couldn't have imagined accumulating cash over the last 10 years hoping that there would be an acquisition opportunity that would make that judgment with hindsight look thoughtful.
You all would have been highly critical I suspect of that in our returns would have been considerably lower and one of the things I learned from working with Sandy for as long as I did is that if a transaction makes sense you get it financed and that treating your shareholders’ money like it’s a bank account to be – to just sit on is really not appropriate.
So I think we’ve done exactly the right thing and when there is a transaction that we want to do we will do it.
We will go ahead and we will do it.
So I will let Jay speak more to the capital and it’s timing but philosophically we’ve done exactly what we wanted to do.
And Jay said the keyword timing.
In any quarter our share repurchases is going to be based upon what our views of prior capital build up has been.
So just because in one quarter or series of quarters it’s higher than what the earnings look like is really on an indication of a fundamental change in philosophy.
It’s still being driven by the creation of operating income and therefore capital in excess of what’s need to support our business.
And we will look for opportunities to organically grow our business which will require capital.
There may be as Jay said some M&amp;A activity that requires capital like we did in Brazil or with Dominion.
But overall it’s a matter of finding those opportunities that provide the appropriate returns and where we don’t find those opportunities we return the excess capital on a real-time basis to you.
Thanks.
And then maybe just a quick one for Doreen in personal lines.
Any frequency trend as a result of kind of employment or other environmental factors that you saw in 2Q or departure from trends so far this year? And thank you Jay and Jay for those answers.
We’ve obviously been paying very close attention to miles driven and unemployment which we’ve heard others speak about.
But I will tell you at this point our trend is 3% which it has been historically so we are not seeing anything out of the ordinary.
There has been a little bit of non-cat weather but that was just in Q1 but our trend remains consistent.
Great.
Thank you so much.
You know what I’m sorry I just wanted to correct.
3% is our trend overall that includes frequency and severity.
That’s what I meant but Gaby wanted to make sure.
Next question please.
The next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
My first question is just a follow-up on the potential for industry consolidation.
The last major deal I believe that Travelers had completed was the St.
Paul merger around 12 years ago.
And I just want to clarify that if there’s a large deal that presents itself strategically and financially that Travelers feel is the right deal to do that the company would be willing to issue stock for that? Yes no question about it.
I would observe by the way that your – Dominion was for most people that would be considered a not insignificant transaction on its own but I grant you that the kind of mega transaction dates back to that one yes.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And then with regard to the – I know you – I don't want to dig in too much on the commentary on Chubb.
But I just wanted to clarify did Travelers get a chance to look at the Chubb deal before ACE announced the transaction? I said everything on the transaction I think that’s appropriate for me to say.
Fair enough.
And then finally the third quarter annual asbestos review it's probably in process.
Any updates on that front? No updates at this point.
We do continually look at asbestos on a quarterly basis.
We have the annual in depth claim review that takes place and we expect to complete that in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for taking the call.
So I wanted to talk a little bit about not so much ACE and Chubb about the company and so on and so forth per se but just generally as the market evolves if there’s going to be more concentration? In the independent agency market there is maybe some more competition that comes from people that have to drive growth to pay for the revenue synergies that they promised how does that play out? You obviously have a bunch of claims capabilities and pricing capabilities and you’re sort of number one and number two with most of our agents.
But is there going to be sort of a strategic need to get larger to drive either greater market power or expense leverage or something like that? Or should we just imagine that this is – there is a lot of different companies and you’re going to basically stick to your knitting looking at one policy at time and sort of keep doing what you’re doing? Yeah it’s Jay Fishman.
I answered the question at the end there.
That’s exactly right.
We are going to keep doing what we are doing.
There isn’t anything that we expect will happen or contemplate will happen that would require any kind of change in our own strategy.
Now having said that lots of companies that are out there not just new ones but old ones too and each of them operate everyday and present their offerings to agents and their services and their people and we compete against all of them.
And we expect we are going to continue to compete against all of them.
And I’d really don’t anticipate any change.
The funny thing as I reflect on it often about taking a lower price to drive revenue synergies is that the arithmetic doesn’t really work.
If you cut your rate your premiums go down.
You want to raise premiums you got to do a whole lot more new business at lower levels of profit just to get back to where you were.
So the simple arithmetic of taking a lower rate on a large book in the hope of driving revenue synergies is often a fool’s errand.
Now it isn’t always.
Some people can do perhaps elegantly but there haven’t been too many of them.
So I suspect that the market will continue to think about interest rates and weather and the cost of capital and all of it seems to be incorporating as it prices its product with an unknown cost of goods sold.
I don’t expect a lot of change.
Could be dead wrong but that’s one person’s view.
That’s helpful.
That’s helpful.
If I could honestly ask a sort of similar question but at the other end of the spectrum? So six months or so ago one of your big mono line competitors in the auto side announced a deal to get into the homeowners’ insurance business.
Obviously it’s probably not material yet maybe won’t be for some time.
But this is a big business for you guys the source of margins and it’s been a place you’ve really invested to build a franchise.
But I’m wondering if there’s some risk here? Either from losing some of the value you have with agents from having the bundled offering and the market share that you do.
Or I believe you guys distribute a lot with some other – or at least one or two other direct insurance companies and I’m wondering if there’s a risk that you would lose some of the business if it becomes sort of popular to bring the homeowners business back in-house? This is Doreen.
I’ll answer your question.
We’ve as we’ve stated before our business strategy is based on account business and overall service to consumers.
To the extent that a certain company has acquired a homeowners’ capability we think that’s probably a good thing for them.
If we were looking at it it’s smart but it’s a start-up.
It’s very small.
And I think you heard Brian’s or Jay’s points in the beginning that we’re the number one homeowners franchise with independent agents.
We don’t take that for granted.
We’re going to be very very aggressive about maintaining that position.
And so while I think it’s an interesting twist to things I think it more validates what our view is about the importance of the product to the customer.
I would add one other – this is Jay Fishman.
I would add one other point.
We really like the homeowners business.
Yeah.
We really do.
We are not in it reluctantly quite the contrary.
The record that we’ve posted there is really remarkable.
I think if you look over the past now even 11 and 12 years it was one year we had a combined ratio in the homeowners business in excess of 100 and that was actually 2011.
It was Tuscaloosa and it was Joplin and it was Irene.
Other than that we’ve been sub-400 every year and – so we’re in it because we like it and we think we are real good at it.
So it’s okay we will keep going.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
They’re probably 10 years late.
So we’ll check back in 5.
It’s okay we were 10 years late on direct.
So we’ll trade them.
That’s fair.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
I guess my first question is just for Jay.
I guess Travelers has probably more experience than any other company in integrating large companies or large P&amp;C companies over the last two decades you know it is obviously a dealer specific question but in what ways do you see it easier or harder to integrate a large company today versus 8 10 years ago either from cost save standpoint revenue synergy any of that type of stuff? [Audio Gap] These are hard to do they are hard from the human side of the news.
People get concerned about their jobs their families their positions all legitimate concerns and lots of really good talented people and it’s hard the people side of this is a very very hard thing to do; and that’s kind of my experience.
I never rely too much on revenue synergies I used to worry a lot about revenue loss.
Our goal was to keep it intact if we thought if we could keep it intact we were actually doing pretty good given some of the pressures that emerge from it.
So synergies I have absolutely no idea yes it’s hard tough job.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
Yes.
A couple of questions.
First is will you in the 10-Q you gave an outlook for 2016 March I think that’s the first time you did that in the business kind of the underlying margins and you are suggesting relative stability as you go into 2016 I guess to read into that is a fair to assume you believe pricing will remain relatively stable through at least the first half of next year? Yes Jay it’s Alan.
So embedded in that outlook in 2016 we think there will be some improvements in the large losses and the weather.
But in terms of pricing I direct your attention to another part of that outlook where we do talk about renewal premium change.
We don't get into a distinction between exposure and price but we do give you a sense there of relative stability in renewal premium change.
That's great.
And then maybe a question for Jay Benet you talk about potential M&amp;A and then you mentioned you will be able to finance it not worry about excess capital and holding on to it but what kind of leveraged do you think you could deploy if it was a good solid acquisition? We operate at the holding company with leverage target of somewhere in the 15% to 25% range relative to total capital and we’re running a little under 22% at this point in time.
That’s consistent with our ratings objective it’s consistent with the discussions we have with the rating agencies you know if there was some transaction that caused it to go to the higher end of that target range I would think the rating agencies would be very comfortable with that I think you know if you could probably go a higher if you had plans to bring it down over a period of time you know there is some flexibility there but that’s the general characteristic of a leverage ratio that we think of.
I actually agree and I think that you could of course Jay’s smiling.
I was just going to make a little bit different point I think you can take it somewhat above the limit recognizing that you would not be in the share buyback position for some time it would not make sense to be out issuing shares and then turn around very quickly and be buying back doesn't make a lot of sense.
So redirection cash flows gives you some leveraged capacity as well.
Got it.
Thanks for the answers.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Greenberg with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thank you.
Just a little bit of clarity on the net non-cat weather comments specifically in personal alliance the year ago non-cat weather if my memory serves me was a bit worse than what you might characterize as normal so recognizing that this quarter was better than a year ago was it better than what you would characterize as normal? I think for homeowners it was for auto it was slightly negative.
So aggregate for this segment.
Net positive but it was a little different by line.
Okay thanks.
And then just to talk a little bit about the expense ratios and I might be microscoping things a little bit too much here but it looks like in business and personal lines the expense ratio has been trending a little bit higher this year I know the year ago first quarter had some unusual worker's comp stuff in it so that was exaggerated but adjusted for everything it looks like expense ratios are marginally higher and I guess I would have thought with Quantum and personal lines and maybe the continued integration of Dominion on business and international that that expense ratios might be trending down at this point so just wondering if there is any thoughts on that? Larry this is Brian.
It is really two different stories but whilst [ph] Alan do the BI piece and then – that segment and Doreen can touch on professional lines.
Sure let me start with that in the quarter expenses did tick up a little bit and I would caution you that every quarter there is going to be things that sort of come and go.
In the expense line this quarter we had a little bit of expenses I mean technology expenses running through but I think what I would really point you to is the expense ratio for the first half of the year if you are looking for what we would consider broadly speaking is sort of a reasonable run rate number but again I’d put a quarter around that because there is always going to be things that come and go.
And I will move to PI for a minute.
So you know that we set out to take $140 million of expense out so that we could price Quantum 2.0 at a competitive level and that was made up of separate pieces so you won't see everything in the expense line.
We had about a third of that from ULAE [ph] a third from commissions and then the third other third was our own operating expense.
And I think what we're seeing with some of that not reducing is that we had a higher level of growth in a good way then we had planned so your acquisition expenses in terms of report ordering and inspections all of that really are upfront cost and we also are having such a good property here that we contributed to our contingent commission.
So I think they are all explainable and I will just say that the things that we've done have allowed us to compete from a new product perspective.
So and just to reiterate I think we did a reconciliation for you at the end of – for the fourth quarter and we did achieve the $140 million in savings.
It’s just those others… Shows up in the loss.
Right.
In the loss ratio not the expense ratio.
A big part of it and some was in property and some was in auto.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
So one question here.
In looking at your kind of underlying combined ratios business insurance area they're pretty profitable loss cost pretty benign right now rate activity pretty consistent.
I am just curious why aren't we seeing market share gains out of the Travelers at this point and what are you doing potentially to pick up some market share? I think that this would be a perfect time to do that and maybe not so much with price but maybe with risk appetite as well? Yeah.
It’s Jay Fishman.
I will turn it over to Alan in a second.
But your last line there I think is right on.
We just don’t think that on the margin you can grow market share by trying to fine tune a modest reduction in price.
You don’t have a price lift and its individual underwriters with individual agents and individual accounts.
And they bring with them every day a philosophy of perspective and we can’t say to them want you to cut price by a 0.5.
They wouldn’t understand a 0.5 from what? It wouldn’t make sense.
And so the notion of fine tuning pricing to achieve market share gains is an illusion.
It just – we don’t know how to do and I’m not sure anybody else does either.
Now if someone is willing to accept materially lower returns not only on new benign renewal because it will bleed over.
You will begin getting exceptionally aggressive on new business and what you find is that agents will get exceptionally anxious about their old renewal books.
And so you can do that but it will have a really meaningful impact on profitability and we’ve seen plenty of companies do that grow revenues with meaningfully declining profitability not a – we don’t think a successful strategy.
So we focus on product we focus on people we focus on technology we focus on doing making it easier to do business with agents as growing our market share.
So if you look at our middle market business over the last and I’m really going from memory here – over the last I think 10 years middle market went from $2.2 billion in premium to $3.2 billion in premium.
That’s a substantial growth in that segment as we did that.
Now we’ve had other segments that have shrunk and they’ve shrunk to some extent intentionally.
When we hit the financial crisis we took a very hard look at our surety business and our management liability businesses and we had some because we didn’t do everything perfect.
I think about our attempt to raise rates in Quantum pre-Quantum 2.0.
So it’s a very granular analysis and I’ll actually direct you to the Investor Day presentation that we did I’m going to say two years ago where we presented an analysis of individual lines of business and how they had grown and others and how they had shrunk.
So we are always interested in growing.
We are just interested in growing in ways that are intelligent and actually create value overtime and we work at that relentlessly.
Alan if you want to chime in.
Not much to add.
I guess I would point to things like moving Marc Schmittlein to over to take on the cyber project.
That’s an example of something we see as a real potential opportunity and when we find those opportunities and we do spent a lot of time looking for and we will make every effort to try to make hay out of it.
Right.
I guess maybe where I was trying to go with this Jay a little bit is is it at this point where we are in the cycle and pricing stuff an appropriate time to maybe dip down in the E&amp;S markets in areas that maybe are on the borderline standard E&amp;S and try to get a little bit more risk appetite from that perspective given where loss trend is right now? So first Fred is encouraging me to say I said middle market in numbers I gave you which are actually commercial accounts.
So that $2.2 billion to $3.2 billion so the record is correct in that regard.
The notion of the E&amp;S market as a separate distinguished risk pool is just something that we struggle with a little bit.
We are always trying to push our risk appetite out.
I think about what Marc Schmittlein did in Select as he broadened the profile of the business that we were trying to do.
I think about what – I think about what we also did in commercial accounts as we broadened out the programs and products there.
E&amp;S market what Alan speak to that more directly but it’s always trying to push our risk profile comfortably and when you don’t push it comfortably you don’t bring knowledge you get bad results.
Right? Yeah I agree we will push ourselves on a risk profile but we will be steadfast on their return focus.
So whether it’s E&amp;S or anything else we are certainly looking for the opportunities.
Thank you.
Okay.
And this will be our last question please.
Our last question comes from the line of Charles Sebaski with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
First question is on the personal business and the Quantum 2.0.
Can you give us any additional color on how much of the book now has kind of filtered through from Quantum 2.0 and what effect that could have as it kind of expands through going forward? This is Doreen and I'll tell you there's certain things we don't normally disclose.
But I will tell you and we've said this in the past that over 90% of our new business is now coming from Quantum 2.0.
Since inception we've now got a pretty big chunk of premium and we’ve got enough earned premium that we think there's enough credibility for us to really look at the performance of the business.
And I'll tell you that it's right within our expectations of how we thought it was going to perform.
And the only – the reason it’s not a 100% is because there are some states..
Exactly.
That simply don’t allow Quantum 2.0 as a model.
So we are… What states would those be? Well I'll tell you we just rolled out California and Massachusetts.
It's a new product but it's not Quantum.
And we've got a few other states North Carolina we have to build something separately for that.
But even in California and Massachusetts which we were happy to bring them a new product because they didn't even get Quantum 1 it's a light version in terms of what the regulators allow us.
And that’s largely because of the inability to use credit.
Credit that’s right.
As a upfront underwriting evaluator and pricer in those states.
Right.
Thank you.
Sorry didn’t mean to cut you off.
One additional question I guess final on the M&amp;A and the consolidation front and how you guys think of opportunities for growth internationally relative to the U.S.? If I look at your book and the market share market share position leaders that you have in a lot and the recent transactions with Dominion or South America do you feel that the book or your business is more conducive to international opportunities? And how do you weigh that on a longer term perspective given the need for return profile and the other things you’ve previously outlined? Charles it’s Alan let me start with that and maybe Jay will follow-up.
We certainly apply the same standards outside the United States as we do inside the United States.
So the question is always is the transaction going to contribute to our ability to create shareholder value overtime? So same lens for evaluating all of it.
Given our profile in the United States given the market share of the franchises we have that same analysis might apply differently outside the United States where there is just more GDP that we are not currently accessing.
So we like the opportunity in Brazil long term we like the transaction in Canada with the Dominion and we will continue as we’ve been on this journey to export our competitive advantages from the U.S.
to other markets.
We will continue to build on a platform that’s scalable and as we find those opportunities we will again make every effort to complete those transactions.
But – so we are certainly out looking for them and it’s the exact same standard we would apply to transact in the U.S.
And I’d just add one comment because we’d take it for granted sometimes you all forget.
We are not a Fortune 100 or 200 guaranteed cost casualty underwriter.
We’re not a liability writer broadly general liability to what we would call global companies.
So when we talk about outside U.S.
we are talking about local business.
This is now Brazilian companies or Canadian companies.
We’re very focused on the local environment.
So where the local environment has characteristics that would allow for either another competitor to come in and succeed or an acquisition opportunity where that local environment holds promise.
We are ambitious for that.
No issue at all.
But it is a very local evaluation not an evaluation of kind of the global insurance market.
And does your product portfolio and how you analyze the business within the U.S.
lend itself to being able to do that internationally in the same way I mean do you get the same access to information and underwriting ability or are there difference that have I guess held you back from expanding more broadly or rapidly internationally? There are certainly differences between marketplaces but we think our fundamental approach to the business being disciplined about returns being strong underwriters all those cultural attributes do translate.
And we think that given the sophistication we have in this marketplace there’s opportunities for us to deploy that sophistication in other less sophisticated markets and make a difference.
But there are definitely differences market to market.
I wouldn’t say that necessarily holds us back but it is one of the things that we assess and evaluate.
But I would also observe that there are differences in the United States.
Doreen just talked about our Quantum product and how we’ve got to tailor that to different markets in the U.S.
and we really take that same skill set of assessing our competitive advantages and figuring out how to deploy them in markets around the world.
So that’s what we’ve done in our existing footprint and that’s what we will continue to do whether it’s in that footprint or in new geographies.
Thank you very much for the answers.
Thank you.
Very good.
This concludes our call for today.
Thank you very much for joining us and we apologize for the disruption.
We apologize for those we didn’t get to in the queue and we are available in Investor Relations to take your calls for the rest of the day.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask you to please disconnect your lines.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all your questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on October 20 2015.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers’ discussion of our 2015 third quarter results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Jay Fishman Chairman and CEO; Alan Schnitzer Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Business and International Insurance and who as already announced will succeed Jay as CEO on December 1; Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer; and Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Claim Personal Insurance and Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance.
They will go through the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now it’s my pleasure to pass it to Jay Fishman.
Thank you Gabi and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
By now you have seen our third quarter results and as you can see from the release it was a terrific quarter that adds meaningfully to our very strong 2015 year-to-date performance.
We reported operating income of $918 million and an impressive operating return on equity of 16.2% bringing our year-to-date results from more than $2.5 billion in operating income and a nearly 15% operating return on equity.
We achieved these results through very strong underwriting performances across all of our business segments and solid investment performance consistent with our expectations.
Our long term average annual operating return on equity stands at 13.4% well in excess of our cost of capital and since 2006 we have returned a total of more than $33.5 billion in capital to our shareholders remarkable numbers and we couldn’t be more pleased.
We have shared with many of you that one of our missions over the last couple of years has been to identify that which we do right and institutionalize those behaviours to make sure that they have continuity and will continue to contribute to our absolute as well as our relative superior performance.
Some of those behaviours are obvious and they include things like our remarkable expertise in workers’ comp claim handling which certainly provides Travelers with a relative competitive advantage.
But as I reflected on this quarter’s earnings as well as the string of quarters that we put together over the recent past my hypothesis is that the competitive advantage of analytics risk selection and pricing management have had a meaningful effect particularly cumulatively.
I can’t prove it to you because I don't know what our results would have been if we weren't just good as we are.
But I do believe that one of the important factors that has led us to produce industry-leading returns is the fact that we have managed the changing rate environment over the last five years as effectively as we have.
Everybody understands that our capital management policies have added to those returns and that analysis is easy to do.
But I am a believer that the numerator in that calculation has been positively impacted and will continue to be so by the way we have managed with rate retention and capital allocation across all accounts.
I am certain that it has mattered and you should know that the commitment to analytical insight that produces these advantages is very much a part of the DNA of this place.
In short the place is in great shape.
It was another impressive quarter.
It’s business as usual and it feels like the perfect time to be conveying the leadership to the next generation.
And in that regard let me turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Jay and good morning.
It was a great quarter and speaking for the next generation we’re very grateful to be stepping in with things in such great shape.
Thanks for that Jay and congratulations.
I will share just a few thoughts this morning before Brian and Doreen take you through the segment results and let me start with personal insurance.
We are about two years into Quantum Auto 2.0 and the results have been excellent.
Our initial loss experience is in line with our original estimates while the take-up of the product has been better and faster than we had anticipated.
It’s nice to see the industry auto policy count and premium growing very well done and congratulations to the team.
In business and international insurance and bond specialty we posted excellent results.
We are pleased to see production in a quarter that reflects a continuation of the trends we have been seeing all year very high and consistent retentions reflective of the stable marketplace and steady real premium increases at levels that are reflective of healthy returns.
These results are consistent with the messaging we’re giving to our field organization which is to retain those accounts that are meeting our return expectation and to try and improve the profitability on those accounts that don’t.
In that regard in our middle market business we continue to be successful in improving the written margins on our quintile four and five business.
As you’ve heard us say many times including in Jay’s commentary this morning we managed on a very granular account by account or class by class basis and giving current returns that blends to a very high retentions and stable renewal premium increases.
To sum it up the operating and production results over the past nine months are very encouraging and taken together with our relentless focus on execution and deep and talented management team give us great confidence in our ability to continue to deliver superior returns.
And with that I’d like to turn it over to Jay Benet.
Thanks Alan.
As you heard from Jay and Alan we are very pleased with our third quarter results: operating income of $918 million up from $893 million in the prior year quarter and operating return on equity of 16.2% up 100 basis points from last year’s third quarter.
Current operating income was driven by a very strong consolidated combined ratio of 86.9% which was 3.1 points better than the prior year quarter.
This improvement resulted from the continuation of very strong current accident year underwriting performance along with higher net favorable reserve development.
Operating income was also driven by solid net investment income which was consistent with our expectations although lower than the very strong prior year quarter.
Fixed income NII of $422 million after tax is down $32 million from the prior year quarter principally due to what we have been saying for many years now – securities that had higher book yields have run off during the past 12 months and have been replaced with securities having lower yields through the current interest rate environment.
Another contributing factor to lower fixed income NII was the modest reduction in average investments that resulted in part from the company's $579 million first quarter 2015 payment to settle the Asbestos Direct Action Litigation.
Non-fixed income NII of $68 million after tax was down $53 million from a very strong prior year quarter primarily due to lower private equity and hedge fund returns.
Private equities and hedge funds produced NII of $35 million after tax this quarter as compared to $79 million after-tax in the prior year quarter.
As I mentioned earnings continued to benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development which amounted to $199 million pretax this quarter $86 million higher than the prior year quarter.
In business and international insurance net favorable development of $49 million pretax resulted from better than expected cat and non-cat weather-related losses in our property business for recent accident years better-than-expected loss experience in GL for 2005 through 2013 and workers’ comp for 2005 and prior and in our Canadian operations partially offset by a $224 million pretax increase to our asbestos reserves.
The asbestos reserve increased related to a broad number of policyholders and was driven by higher estimates for projected settlement and defense costs for mesothelioma claims than we had previously assumed.
Notwithstanding these higher cost estimates our overall view of the underlying asbestos environment is essentially unchanged from recent periods.
In bond and specialty insurance net favorable development of $103 million pretax was concentrated in contract surety and fidelity for 2008 through 2013.
Partially driving this favorable development was a reduction in outstanding exposures related to the financial crisis of 2007 and beyond.
And in personal insurance net favorable development of $47 million pretax resulted from homeowners and other liability for 2013 and ‘14 and auto liability for 2012 through ’14.
On a combined stat basis for all of our US subs and excluding A&amp;E there were no accident years or product lines that had any meaningful unfavorable development this quarter or year to date.
Third-quarter operating cash flows were very strong at $1.8 billion while holding company liquidity which included the proceeds from our August 25th issuance of $400 million of 4.3% 30-year senior debt ended the quarter at over $2 billion well above our target level.
The proceeds from this debt issuance will be used towards retiring 400 million of debt that is maturing on December 1 of this year.
Our debt to total capital ratio of 23% or 21.9% adjusted for the retirement of the December 1 maturity was well within its target range and all of our other capital ratios were at or better than their target levels.
Net unrealized gains were approximately $2.2 billion pretax or $1.4 billion after-tax down from $3 billion and $2 billion respectively at the beginning of the year due to higher rates that were driven by spread widening.
Nonetheless book value per share of $79 grew 2% from the beginning of the year and importantly adjusted book value per share of $74.35 which eliminates the impact of unrealized investment gains grew by 5% during this time period.
We continue to generate much more capital than we need to support our businesses and consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy we returned $939 million of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter through dividends of $189 million and common share repurchases of $750 million bringing total capital return to shareholders to almost $2.8 billion year to date.
So Brian is now going to discuss underwriting results in business and international insurance.
Thanks Jay.
Business and international insurance had a great quarter with excellent returns and production results.
Retention remained at a historically high level the pricing environment was stable and renewal rate change continued to be positive.
New business results were solid although as we have discussed previously new business flow was somewhat lower than we would like as a result of strong retentions across the industry.
Turning to the financial results.
Operating income for the quarter was strong at $546 million while the combined ratio was 92.2%.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats in prior year reserve development was 92.5% for the quarter an improvement of about 2.5 points year-over-year driven primarily by favorable non-catastrophe weather losses.
Looking at the topline net written premiums for the segment were up a point year-over-year.
Domestic business insurance premiums were up 4% driven by changes in the timing and structure of some of our reinsurance treaties in prior quarters which primarily impacted our first party businesses and property lines.
Turning to domestic BI production trends we remain pleased with the continued execution of our very granular pricing strategy.
As we have been saying for some time given the attractive returns that we are generating in this business our focus continues to be on retention and accordingly we are very pleased that retention remains at 84% for the third quarter in a row.
In addition as Alan mentioned we continue to seek and are able to get price increases where needed.
Overall renewal premium change came in at 3% with renewal rate change consistent with the second quarter.
New business of $444 million was down somewhat compared to both the prior year and recent quarters reflecting the market dynamics I mentioned earlier.
Looking at each of our individual domestic businesses the production story is generally consistent with what I just described.
I would however bring your attention to other business insurance.
As we mentioned last quarter renewal rate change for this business has turned negative driven by the national property business but even here it’s a very positive overall story with strong returns retentions in the low 90s and pricing that is slightly negative but stable.
Excluding national property renewal rate change for other business insurance remains positive and down only slightly from the second quarter.
Turning to international net written premiums were down 19% primarily due to the adverse impact of foreign-exchange.
Excluding this impact international net written premiums were down 6% driven by highly competitive market conditions at Lloyd’s reflective of global economic pressure on the marine and energy lines.
In terms of production retention remained strong.
Renewal premium change turned slightly negative due to about a 1.5 of negative exposure change resulting from the lower line sizes that we've taken in the Lloyd’s business.
The rate change component of renewal premium change was a little more than a point positive.
In Canada renewal premium change continued to be positive.
New business was down somewhat quarter over quarter with half of the decline driven by the impact of foreign exchange and the remainder driven by Lloyd’s.
So all in we continue to feel great about the performance across the segment.
Returns continue to be attractive and stable and we remain pleased with the granular execution of our strategy.
With that let me turn it over to Doreen.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Please forgive me for having a scratchy voice and apologize to all of you.
Bond and specialty insurance had another quarter with exceptional financial results.
We feel terrific about the fundamentals to drive these results.
Disciplined underwriting execution aggressive management of risk and limits a continued enhancement of underwriting analytics strong account and agency relationships and superior claims management.
Operating income for the quarter was $196 million an increase of almost 20% from the third quarter of 2014 driven by better underlying underwriting results and higher net favorable prior year reserve development.
Third-quarter underlying combined ratio of 76.1% for the segment improved by 5.6 points from the prior year.
About half of this improvement was due to favorable re-estimation of losses in management liability.
Underlying underwriting results remained very strong and well within our target.
As for topline net written premiums in the aggregate were up slightly from 2014.
Surety was 3% higher primarily attributable to middle-market construction accounts and across our management liability businesses we drove to higher retention of 87% and improved new business from the prior year quarter.
So all in all another great quarter for bond and specialty.
I'll turn now to personal insurance where we once again produced strong underwriting results in both agency auto and agency homeowners and other.
We continue to be exceptionally pleased with the growth in our auto book and are very encouraged with the continued momentum we are seeing in homeowners.
For the segment operating income for the quarter was $241 million a slight increase from the third quarter of 2014.
The underlying combined ratio was strong at 85.2% and benefited from generally benign losses in homeowners.
On a run rate basis the segment continues to perform in line with our long-term return goals.
Looking specifically at agency auto we continue to be very pleased with the profitable growth we are generating.
Topline results remained strong driven by both new business and retention and underlying margins continue to run in line with expectations and in a range we’re comfortable with.
The combined ratio for the quarter was 93.9% and included almost 2.5 points of favorable prior year reserve development.
Similar to the last couple of quarters the favorable prior year reserve development was driven by better-than-expected severity in bodily injury.
The underlying combined ratio of 96.2% was essentially flat to the prior year results.
As for loss trend our view of frequency and severity remain consistent with recent quarters.
We are certainly aware that there's a lot of discussion in the industry about trend particularly increasing frequency.
While we may observe normal fluctuations in any particular period due to things like weather we currently are not seeing any meaningful change in our overall frequency trend.
As always we continue to monitor external data and our own results very closely.
But as I said our view of overall loss trend remains consistent with recent quarters at around 3%.
As for agency auto production retention of 83% has trended up meaningfully from the beginning of 2014 and remains consistent with recent periods.
New business premium of $218 million was more than 30% higher than the third quarter of 2014.
We continue to grow policies in force which increased by almost 50 000 during the quarter.
Net written premiums increased 10% from the prior year quarter.
So again by all measures great results for auto for the quarter.
Turning to agency homeowners and others we once again had strong financial results with an underlying combined ratio of 71.5% driven by benign loss experience both in weather and non-weather.
This result is somewhat higher than the prior year quarter due to last year’s losses being even more favorable than this year.
Run rate margins in this business remain well within our expectation.
As for agency homeowners production we are very pleased with the progress we're making.
New business premiums were up 28% from the prior year quarter and continued to trend favorably while retention remained strong at 84%.
Policies in force have leveled off sequentially for the last two quarters and net written premiums when adjusted for the timing and structure of certain reinsurance treaties in prior periods were essentially flat from the prior year quarter.
As we said in previous calls this is an area of high focus for us and we’re encouraged with the positive results we’re seeing to date.
So to sum up personal insurance another great quarter.
With that I'll turn the call back to Gabi.
Thank you.
We are ready to start the Q&amp;A portion please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Cohen Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a numbers question I think you said on the call and I missed.
There were some current year development I think in the management liability side.
Could you just give me that number again? I am sorry I missed that.
On the numbers about 10 million and that’s generally due to fidelity and crime and I will just tell you we had favorable reserve development in prior accident years and that indicated to us that 2015 will perform better than we originally projected.
And then I guess bigger picture on the development which just continues to be such an incredible source of earnings and so resilient.
Can you talk maybe broadly Doreen about the claims environment what you’re seeing and what you are not seeing certainly on the liability side? So you are moving out of surety then at this point.
Correct.
Okay.
I think we tend to see a pretty stable environment in general liability and there were things that we were thinking might impact that whether it was people higher unemployment rate and we might see more liability claims.
We thought maybe as people also were in the financial crisis that they thought we thought jury awards might go up.
We didn’t see any of that.
So the litigation rates are pretty consistent.
We don’t have less or more of that and it’s performed pretty much I would say better than we thought it would have during the really tough years.
For us in certain lines it’s due to particular things.
We have some areas where we have fewer large losses others we might see the opposite of that but to us the legal environment has performed pretty well not what we would have expected politically either.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg of Janney.
I guess before a question given that Alan is stepping in very shortly.
Jay I just want to congratulate you on an incredible career and legacy and certainly wish you the best of luck in the future.
You’ve been – you’ve really been a leader for Travelers but also the industry and have created some phenomenal value for your shareholders and taught a lot of people about the value of prudent capital management and you’ve been generous and patient in answering our sometimes inane questions and certainly sharing your industry insights and I just want to thank you personally for that and I am sure many others on the call feel the same way.
Larry thank you.
I’d say over and over I have been so fortunate to be surrounded I am sitting at a table here with what I think is the most thoughtful smartest most committed management team I have ever been around.
It’s just extremely quite remarkable when you are surrounded by people like this it just isn’t nearly as hard as it may seem and so thank you.
I’d also tell you that one of the great things that’s been fun for this is there’s a handful of you on the call and there’s a couple in the room here but there is a few people that we have been speaking to right from the very beginning I was doing the arithmetic this morning I think this is my 56<sup>th</sup> earnings call and there is a few of you who have been there right from the beginning and it’s been great fun to work with people over that period of time just a real great joy actually in watching how people can change their view of the business and how the business has changed.
So thank you for the comment I most appreciate it.
Nobody else follow up please with that.
That’s the last thank you we will get but Larry thanks.
Go ahead with your question.
I know you talked a bit about Quantum and maybe it’s nothing more than it just continues to develop traction in the marketplace.
But it seems like the traction is more than certainly I would have expected at this point.
And I am just wondering if you could give some more color on what’s really happening where the rubber meets the road what’s the feedback from the agents is it simply that in more time you are getting more traction or anything you could share on that would be helpful for me? Sure.
This is Doreen and good morning.
I think that it’s fair to say that it’s gotten more traction quicker than even we thought and Alan commented on that.
We did a lot of work before we designed the product looking at what we thought it needed to be from a pricing standpoint before we started modelling it and looking at on what expenses needed to take out.
Along with that we have a really I would say gifted sales force that is out with agents every day talking about the products.
We’ve also introduced some sales marketing toolkits that allows agents to regularly reach out to prospective customers.
I think the agents – I am a little biased in this – I think the agents really want to do business with us and we gave them a competitive product and a quality product that allow them to do that.
And I think the other really exciting thing about it is that the agents are also seeing as they are picking up a bigger share from the captive and the direct market which is what we hope would happen for them so they just didn’t see that they were getting a lower commission so they see that net net they are getting into markets that they might not have been successful and they are producing more volume and the feedback has been very good.
We meet with them very very often and I think that’s probably – it’s just worked as we hoped it would.
Do you think that the issues that some in the industry are having with frequency might be additionally creating some opportunities for you? No Larry it’s Jay.
I can’t think of a topic that we’ve spent more time trying to understand ourselves and as obviously we are anticipating someone asking why don’t you think you are experiencing some of the frequency trends that are bizarre and the truth is that we don’t know.
But I’d make the following observations.
One is that where you start from is an important assumption.
These are – we are talking about changes in frequency from period to period and so one of the interesting questions is always how good are those original estimates from which you are adjusting was there a pattern or trend that evidenced itself later sooner but so the starting point matters and it can’t be dismissed.
The other which I find more than intriguing there is a tendency to assume analysts in particular that the auto insurance customers the equivalent of a monolith there.
They are all the same.
And we know definitively in the data that’s just not the case.
And we know that for example from our experience of being the GEICO partner for as many years as we have been the customers that buy directly are on average now it doesn’t mean that we are on lots of exceptions but on average they are younger more single more single cars more minimum limits they are a different driver than a higher end older importantly older driver the sort of type that was typically been a Travelers customer.
So you can speculate and it’s all it is is it possible that distracted driving is impacting that younger group disproportionately relative to the older drivers.
Is it possible that as employment has improved and miles driven increased that the unemployment improved amongst the younger drivers at a faster rate than older because they have not come down as much and as a consequence you are seeing – and this is hypothesis not a fact that you are seeing an increase in miles in the group that tends to have a higher rate of frequency.
So that’s the best we can offer at the moment.
Those two dynamics of who’s the driver and what’s changed in their world and they are quite different and then what’s the starting point from which they are coming.
I think Doreen had it exactly right – I had a conversation a couple of years ago with an agent and it’s just one.
He was using Quantum 2 to do outbound calling to those customers that Travelers had the homeowners on but someone else had the auto.
And so he was out there reaching out and saying look we’ve got a product that’s lower rate than the old Travelers was and you put the two products together and you’ve got the combined product discount and suddenly that quote for the auto retained remarkably compelling for a meaningful number of customers out there.
So sort of one of the surprises was the account rounding that took place around Quantum and that certainly added to the volume.
So it started off with really hard management work of reducing costs tough stuff tough to execute locally hard meaning things and then having a product that could compete with the marketplace that exists today the core reality of making sure you are not – you’re relevant in a changing marketplace.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling of Sanford Bernstein.
So I was hoping you could talk a little bit about pricing and you guys have done a good job of laying out a really interesting phenomenon in the other business insurance line it’s just a huge difference between property and your overall renewal rate changes and if you sort of observe from 50 000 feet it looks like most of your renewal rate changes across lot of line to kind of like ending up in 1% or 2% sort of positive and not as much as that was a couple of years ago phenomenon in other business insurance which I think you will correct me but I think this is national account and more specialty and wholesale stuff obviously is declining now for the past couple of quarters and I am wondering if you could sort of talk a little bit about what’s structurally different about this business relative to some of the other sort of more small bit more commercial personal line things if it is and if we can sort of understand that and sort of as we get better into forecasting it.
But then also perhaps even more technically is this something that’s really just a phenomenon of the property pressures that are coming from sort of changes in the reinsurance market and then ultimately almost if you reframe that is it not as a question of pricing but is a question of margins would you guys think yourselves as letting property business today at a stable margin but perhaps with less total price? Josh Alan and I are going to tatting this.
First I’d make the observation that to the extent that capital – new capital comes into our industry it comes into those areas that are easiest to put capital to work quickly.
So you will often find it in large account business where frequency – claims frequency is not an issue you will find it in unregulated – not as middle market in this – so capital goes where it can be most easily deployed and the large account property business is a really good example of an area where capital can be committed pretty easily without much infrastructure for regulatory hoops to go through.
Now there is something in particular about the national property business and Alan talked about that but first we start off with an industry phenomena to the extent new capital is coming in that’s an area.
Josh it’s Alan.
Let me start with – we’re just getting a little bit of perspective on your commentary.
You said that ex the national property I think it was zero to 1 and I would say that’s not exactly true.
There is a range from a little bit negative on national property to say the auto lines where it’s a challenge from a return perspective and we’re getting rate in excess of loss trend there.
So I would just encourage you not to think about the whole book being at a zero or 1 but they are being a range that really corresponds to profitability.
Also in terms of what’s in that business it’s certainly our national property but there is really no casualty in that business at all it’s national property it’s boiler inland ocean so just to be clear about what’s in it.
You made the comment about returns but the returns in that national property business are very very attractive.
And so I would say that the pressure that we are seeing from price really is coming from two places there probably is a component of – that’s an easy place for the incremental capital coming into the business to find a home but also the returns are very very good and so we continue to have very high retentions and to grow that business.
So if I can ask a final question and obviously the past decade or so of Travelers has been one of capital returns and discipline and that’s been fantastic for shareholders to the credit of everybody on the call.
But the trade-off from that obviously naturally is that there are some other companies have chosen different approaches where they basically retain earnings and they grow through acquisition or other sources.
And I am wondering as you guys look sort of from where you are today as you look forward think about the next five or 10 years and think about other companies getting bigger and the importance I presume of Travelers even maintaining its market share as sort of a number one or number two player with all of your agencies.
I am wondering how your strategic calculus might change in sort of more of a focus on growth to keep up with [indiscernible] something we should anticipate from Travelers? Josh let me take that too and let me start by saying and I said these words before Jay has really managed this through on ensemble cast.
So everyone around this table I think feels like we are contributing authors to the strategy that we put in place in that we’ve implemented and executed over the years and we’re also very very comfortable that what we’ve done has created enormous shareholder value and so we will continue to be return focused and I would encourage you to all look at the first slide that we put in the webcast every single quarter quarter in quarter out and we spent a lot of time looking at that internally.
I would – if you go back 10 years and you look at – and Jay has actually put up the slide before look at the way we’ve deployed capital we have grown and we do – we would certainly rather grow than not grow and we’ve deployed capital where we think we can and grow at attractive returns.
So if you look at commercial accounts over the years or you look at the surety business when the credit environment allowed us to do it there is all sorts of examples in all different time periods across all of our businesses when we’ve grown and we will continue to make every effort to do that when we can.
We understand that there is a relevance to market share and scale so we are not indifferent to it and we will hopefully make the right judgments in balancing the way we manage the business for returns and thinking about the relevance of growth and scale over time.
And I would just add that in the context of acquisitions we’ve been actively engaged with anything that’s transpired we have looked at we’ve established views of value and where value can be created and points at which it can be and if we would have find the transaction that would fit strategically that would enable us to either reduce the volatility of our own returns or potentially even improve them and of course that’s hard being the highest return competitor in the industry but if we can find that we’re not uncomfortable moving ahead where we have done a few transactions in our lives and feel that we have got the skill base to execute and so we will always keep looking.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
I had to say Jay congratulations on a great career ending on such a high note.
And then for Alan I think seeing the announcement I wonder you must have gave some thoughts on your priorities or where do you see area you can further improve the organization.
Thanks for the question Kai.
Certainly been thinking a lot about it and I guess I would go back to where I started with the last question which is we’ve all been managing this and we’ve all been on this trajectory and talked together and we will continue to do that.
I mean it’s a really fortunate position at the moment as I said at the opening of the call not just that I am stepping into terrific results but I am stepping into a very familiar situation.
So the management team the strategy the board all of that’s really familiar and that gives me a great opportunity to be thoughtful and very deliberate and to take my time together with the rest of the team as we think about what’s next.
So we will do that in due course and this has really given me an opportunity over the last couple of months to spend time with the leadership team to be on the road with our field organizations to spend time with distribution so it’s been really a luxury and a privilege and we will take the time to be thoughtful and deliberate about it.
And follow up question on your year-over-year improvement on the underlying margin you said the lower non-cat loss has contributed to that.
My understanding is that last year third quarter you have above normal and I don't know if this year's like below normal of non-cat activities and could you quantify that? Just wonder going forward we see this year's level would be more normalized non-cat weather events.
This is Jay Benet.
I mean as you’ve heard us say on the call before we’ve always struggled with the concept of what actually is normal and what we do in our Qs and Ks is – for weather – for other things we do know what is normal.
But when it comes to weather what we are doing in our Qs and Ks is really making comparisons of actual cost in one quarter to actual cost in another so you do hear us talk about this was more favorable than last year or this was less favorable than last year but to try to quantify in any meaningful way how that then compares to what’s normal is difficult.
What we do try to provide is some color to say that the weather seemed to be fairly benign this quarter.
So I think we would say that whatever normal is is probably a little more expensive than what we saw this quarter but we leave it to you to actually try to dollarize that if you will.
Well just year over year comparison if you look relative basis like how much that contribute to the 240 basis points? Well just look at it a year to year basis it was primarily a change due to the level of non-cat weather in BI.
And that’s what we try to communicate hopefully clearly in the Q and the press release.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Tunis of Credit Suisse.
My first question I guess is just given the 10-year back at 2% how should we think about the NII run rate on the fixed income portfolio headed into next year as it compares to this year? Also how should we be thinking about alternative returns headed into fourth quarter with I guess probably some lagged odds on PE especially given energy? We try to be very clear in our Q and the outlook as to what’s taking place in the fixed income environment and we don’t try to make predictions of the future interest rates we more or less look at it on a basis of its today’s rates or to maintain themselves over the next 12 months or so what’s the likely impact of that on the reinvestment capabilities for assets that are turning over in that timeframe and based upon that we’ve made a disclosure in the Q saying that on a quarterly basis we would expect the fixed income NII all things being equal to go down about $25 million to $30 million from where it would have been in the prior year quarter on a comparative basis.
And that would be an aftertax number.
And that’s frankly consistent with not only what we have been saying but more or less what we have been seeing over the last several years if you followed what’s taken place in our fixed income portfolio.
As it relates to the non-fixed income portfolio we do report private equities on a three month lag basis we report hedge funds on a one month lag basis so it’s not quite the same in terms of the time differential and from our own forecasting standpoint we do our best to look forward and try to determine based on equity markets and not just the private equities and hedge funds but what the real estate markets are doing because that’s a substantial portion of the non-fixed income portfolio and we try to internally estimate what we think fourth quarter and into next quarter returns are going to be but we don’t have a crystal ball so when people ask me what we think I try to guide them to look at the past several quarters and draw some conclusions from that as to what kind of trajectory we might be on.
If you look last year versus this year we did disclose that the repricing of oil worldwide had an impact on our valuations and that’s worked its way through the valuations at this point in time.
So other than that there’s really nothing more I can think of adding to that.
And then I just had two quick number questions on FPI.
And my first one I think is a follow-up on Jay Cohen's question on the current accident year favorable development and I think Doreen mentioned it was in fidelity and crime.
I'm wondering should we think about that as a change in trend that will all things being equal also be a tailwind headed into next year? My answer to that is no.
It's really more of a factor of what we've seen in prior accident years and that influencing what we think 2015 would be.
So no we would not view that as a trend going forward in ‘16.
And then the other one for FPI was just looking at the general admin expenses they were down about $6 million to $10 million this quarter from where we've seen the run rate.
Is this a good run rate going forward or is that one-time that $93 million? You're speaking to the intangible that was fully amortized so that's a one-time event yes in the second quarter is that what we were talking about? Yes if you talk about bond and specialty the reduction in expenses that you are referring to there was an intangible that became fully amortized and as a result that expense now goes away.
It continues to go away.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
So just returning to auto for just a second if I could I guess not being an operator trying to see inside the operating lens a little bit it looks like you're increasing rate and growing as a result of Quantum 2.0.
This frequency dynamic has popped up elsewhere that you guys haven't seen.
It's still not clear what's underneath that.
How do you sort of balance the goal of repositioning auto via Quantum 2.0 and being top three traders and growing at a pace you're comfortable with but doing that in a changing loss environment and whether that creates the risk of adverse selection? It’s Jay Fishman.
Just two or three observations after he wants to add in.
One is if you set higher rate that’s 2.0 versus 1.0 it’s actually a lower rate in other words the 2.0 again you get all sorts of sales that are different and different underwriting elements but the concept behind 2.0 was across the board a lower priced product than 1.0 was 1.0 in a comparative rating environment was not nearly competitive enough 2.0 was designed to be substantially more competitive and that actually has happened.
The volume and the product is a function of how it shows up on a technology platform in an agent’s office and in that regard 2.0 was doing exactly what we had hoped it would.
As to the changing loss environment I am not sure we could look any harder than we looked for us it hasn’t happened we could and so we just keep going on.
Whether it’s in losses incurred losses early indicators of losses early indicators of activity there’s just been not a meaningful change and I don’t mean to hammer hard that because any quarter numbers move a little up or down all the time.
But in looking for something systemic we just don’t see it here.
So those are the – I don’t know Doreen if you want to -- I would like to add we do expect when we add new business that that’s going to perform at least initially at a higher loss ratio and that as that becomes more tenured it begins to perform in the range of where our tenured business is.
So when we have said that everything is in line with our expectations that’s exactly what we mean we assume certain things about how the book to new business will perform and it’s within those garb rails we just started going through our renewal cycle with the first of the Quantum book we expect that to even perform at lower levels of loss but within planned expectations.
So I agree with Jay we are not seeing anything that’s systemic in the environment but our view of new business is it gets to the returns over time and we expect it --- I would just add because it’s something we take for granted here I often find there is confusion.
There is no difference in the price between a new account and a renewal account.
They are the same and so when Doreen says that a block of new business doesn’t perform as well as once it’s seasoned it’s not because the rate changes it’s because the underwriting improves with performance.
As you begin to understand the dynamics of each individual account you can begin to make adjustments all the way from lowering rate where someone has earned it increasing rate where someone has earned that or non-renewing where the circumstances warranted and so the improvement with age is not about a new business penalty the phrase is often used it’s really about the unseasoned underwriting performance that occurs in any new block of business in any business and improves with time.
I guess my question when I mentioned rate increase I was looking at the renewal premium change.
So I guess what you're saying is that the cost reductions that you made including the commission reductions are enough to even make the premium lower in 2.0 versus what it would have been in 1.0 despite the fact that you've got renewal premium change? Exactly right.
And so the renewal premium change is positive and obviously some of that a meaningful amount of that is still Quantum 1 that’s on the books and where Quantum 2 is is entirely our new business now but there is a insignificant amount of Quantum 1 that continues its aging its meaningfully profitable does quite well.
Now that obviously will – the Quantum 1 percentage will go down with time the Quantum 2 in the portfolio will go up but you’ve got it exactly right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Yes thanks two questions here.
First one Doreen I noticed in the 10-Q that you've changed your outlook for underlying margins in the personal line sub-segment to go from kind of stable going to ‘16 to now I guess smaller margins.
What's behind that change? Brian that's really as the amount of the Quantum business comes in.
So expectation is still pretty strong growth in Quantum so that’s why it’s just better than expected.
Brian it’s Gabi.
Are you talking to all of PI or was that specifically auto – It’s all personal lines when you look at all personal lines make that overall kind of general comment.
It’s a combination of the new business and Quantum is – Jay and Doreen just talked about that impact as well as the whole concept of what the weather in that might be.
It’s good solid weather in the third quarter so kind of looking forward.
Okay.
That makes sense.
The second question just quickly and maybe I'm reading too much into this is looking into your exposure in business insurance it continued to kind of moderate here exposure increases.
Anything to read into that? No Brian it’s Alan.
I would say generally reflective of economic conditions.
Okay.
So you're seeing economic conditions to may be slowing a little bit? No we are seeing – We are trying – that we are all looking at each other trying to understand what to look what you are seeing and reacting to.
Just looking at business insurance.
If I look at -- you provide the exposure other as a percentage.
It's been moderating over the last year.
Small business you definitely saw it come down as far as the rate of increase.
Pretty small numbers you are looking at.
So if you are looking at selective sequentially it’s 4.9 to 4.1 if you are looking it overall BI it’s national it’s something like 2.4 to 2.2 so you’re really talking very small changes in the number that is hard to even calculate with any precision.
And Brian this is Brian MacLean.
Remember that that in the production statistics those are really the underwriter and the account and the producers estimate of what’s going to happen with the exposures going forward.
So it’s a little bit of what gets pushed into the price then there is also audit premium which is come into the actual premium line which has been a little bit higher.
So the actual exposures we are seeing are pretty consistent.
And typically as it ages it goes up but the audit premium gets reflected and so the natural trend is for a customer to under-estimate perspective exposure to save rates and then of course the audit brings it back up and comes in later.
So there is a bit of – I wouldn’t call it seasonality time of year but time may associate with it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
I want to follow up on the M&amp;A environment and I know there's some previous commentary around in what circumstances Travelers might be interested in doing a deal.
I wanted to see if you could tailor those comments a bit more towards international versus domestic.
Sure Jay it’s Alan.
I will take that.
So we would apply the same kind of thought process and lens to a transaction outside the US as we would to the US either it’s going to contribute to our mission of improving returns or creating more profit dollars at the same returns or improving volatility.
And so we would apply the same lens and go through the same thought process.
A transaction outside the United States given our footprint and our scale may be different in that analysis than one would be in the US so that’s why a $1 billion transaction in Canada for instance was so attractive to us a $1 billion transaction in the US would certainly less strategic from that perspective.
So we will continue to look in our existing and beyond footprint outside the US and we will undertake transactions when they make sense on that basis.
Thanks for that.
And then on the premium growth for the quarter gross written premiums up 0.6% net up 2.6%.
So am I right in assuming that it was purchasing less reinsurance was a main driver of the net growth or was there something else there? This is Jay Benet.
In prior quarters we made some changes to our reinsurance it was not that we were purchasing less reinsurance but you will recall earlier in the year we talked about changing our cat cover which previously had been on July 1 renewal and we cancelled it as of 12/31.
This was the gen cat cancelled it as of 12/31 last year and on January 1 of this year bought the gen cat cumulative cover.
So what you have in this particular quarter is a comparison to a quarter last year where we had a purchase of reinsurance this year we didn’t have it but the same kind of cover with a different set of limits and different types of aggregation was done in January 1.
All that said if you want to get a better view of things without looking at the reinsurance look at year to date information because it washes itself out.
There were some other similar types of changes some in terms of timing some gone from quota share to excess cover but we really haven’t fundamentally changed the program.
So the year to date net written premium growth trends should it probably be a better indicator? Yes.
Just one additional thought again we take for granted you so often -- your acquisition question.
We are a small and middle market insurance company we are a very big one.
But we are small and middle market company we really don’t for substantive reasons aspire to be a globally account casualty underwriter.
It’s a different business it’s not one that we are particularly well suited we really don’t do it in the US in any meaningful way.
And so all these questions about international acquisitions and they are relevant really we get very local focused what can we do in a particular geography that we are talking about as opposed to how does it allow us to write global casualty for a fortune 10 company that’s just not our business not what we do.
So we tend to think of it as quite local and not a global in that sense.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Just one question a clarification question.
In response to Larry's question I think you mentioned that you're capturing more share in the captive and direct channels.
And I was trying to figure out that's a different shopping experience and why would a captive policyholder be willing to move their auto policy to an independent agent I guess given the lack of a bundling discount? Maybe just explain that a bit more to me.
I mean I don't know exactly why they might switch from one to the other but they have more choice.
If they're with a captive agent they have a product and that's it and if they start shopping around which we know many more customers are shopping then they might choose a different distribution channel so that they can have choice.
<br> The data is that I'm thinking about is quite dated.
I know we have information of course it's self disclosed where the customer tells us their previous insurer was and I'm going back quite a ways.
But it has been -- it has long-standing been predominantly captive companies and other direct companies moving into the independent agent channel disproportionate of our new business rather than -- there's obviously one agent company moving to us but disproportionately more captive and direct as a percentage of that volume.
I haven't looked at that in a couple of years but that's at least what the standard has been.
And we've seen more of it with 2.0 End of Q&amp;A Very good.
That will conclude our call for today.
As always we are available in investor relations for any follow up questions.
Thank you very much and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask you to please disconnect all lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Results Teleconference for Travelers.
We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on January 21 2016.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Gabriella Nawi Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Nawi you may begin.
Thank you Tina.
Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our 2015 fourth quarter and full year results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning.
All of these materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investors section.
Speaking today will be Alan Schnitzer CEO Jay Benet Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean President and Chief Operating Officer; and Doreen Spadorcia Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Claim Personal Insurance and Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance.
They will discuss the financial results of our business and the current market environment.
They will refer to the webcast presentation as they go through prepared remarks and then we will take questions.
In addition Jay Fishman and other members of the Senior Management team are also in the room.
Before I turn it over to Alan I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at the end of the webcast.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
These factors are described in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials that are available in the Investors section on our website.
And now Alan Schnitzer.
Thank you Gabi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We are very pleased to finish 2015 with another strong quarter.
As I'm sure you've seen we reported operating income of $886 million or $2.90 per share and operating return on equity of 15.8%.
That caps off another terrific year with operating income of just over $3.4 billion operating income per diluted share of a record high $10.87 and operating return on equity of 15.2%.
Our underwriting results across the board remains strong as you can see from our combined ratio of 86.6% for the quarter and 88.3% for the year.
In domestic business insurance consistent with our marketplace objectives we achieved a record level of retention in the quarter with positive renewal rate change.
In Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance we generated an all time best underlying combined ratio of 80.1% for the year.
Broadly speaking the market dynamics in the commercial insurance marketplace continued to be remarkably stable.
In personal lines Quantum Auto 2.0 continues to meet our expectations.
In agency auto we had year-over-year policy in force growth of 8% in the fourth quarter and as you can see in the webcast that's the sixth consecutive sequential quarter of increasing discount.
Those of you who have been following our agency auto know what a success it has been.
We are also pleased to be seeing an impact from the success of Quantum Auto 2.0 in our homeowners business and you'll hear more about that from Doreen.
Jay Benet will have more to say about our current investment results but I’ll just note that we have delivered pretty exceptional returns on equity for quite some time notwithstanding over the headwinds in the investment arena.
Historically low interest rates the decline in energy prices and volatility in the equity markets just is examples from this quarter.
This speaks volumes about our ability to select in price underwriting risk and the strength of our insurance franchises.
Just as a data point our after-tax net investment income is about $1 billion lower in 2015 as compared to its high in 2007.
On the other hand our after-tax underlying underwriting margin is about $1 billion higher in 2015 than it was at its low in 2011.
Particularly to the extent the fixed income yields remain low and that seems like the outlook for at least some time.
And with capital finding its way into the largest end of this business expertise and generating underwriting returns and having strong franchises in the smaller middle marketplaces with meaningful barriers to entry will really matter.
Turning to capital management consistent with our ongoing capital management strategy we returned nearly $1.2 billion of capital to our shareholders in the quarter and nearly $4 billion during the year.
For long time consistent strength of our results since behind our capital management strategy.
Just as we have for nearly a decade we will continue to right size capital and invest profitably in the business.
Things to that strategy we have now returned close to $35 billion of capital to shareholders since the middle of 2006 when we started our share repurchase program.
Let me take just a minute to comment on the leadership transition.
What I suspect many of you want to hear from me is where do go from here? As I've explained to our leadership team our challenge is this to take today's summit and make it tomorrow's base camp.
I'm confident that we already have the right strategy in place to do that and we've got the right team to execute it.
We've been executing it.
We understand it and it has been remarkably successful.
It's this team's strategy.
Delivering superior returns overtime will continue to be our North Star.
We'll do that by investing in and leveraging our competitive advantages delivering industry-leading products and services and making sure this is a great place to work for the best talent in this industry.
That's not to say that we won't challenge ourselves constantly to make sure that both the strategy and the way we are executing on it remains relevant.
It's critical that we reassess all the time and we will continue to be a leader in evolving and innovating particularly given the potential for change around this.
Among other things we'll continue to refine our data and analytics to make sure that we lead in reselection and pricing.
We'll continue to innovate on the product side and our claim in risk control organizations to make sure that we're delivering at the forefront for agents brokers and customers.
And we'll continue to build on our leading position with our distribution partners to make sure that we're partner of choice for them.
We've always understood the value of size and scale and we're well-positioned in that regard.
Just as in the past we'll seek opportunities to grow thoughtfully and in ways that contribute to shareholder value.
And as always we'll manage our expenses thoughtfully.
All of that is business as usual for us.
Our confidence in our strategy and our track record in executing on it give us confidence in our ability to continue to deliver for our shareholders.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jay Benet.
Thanks Alan.
As Alan mentioned we're very pleased with our results this quarter; net income per diluted share of $2.83 operating income per diluted share $2.90 and an operating ROE of 15.8%.
These results were driven by the continuation of our very strong current accident year underwriting performance as evidenced by an underlying combined ratio of 90.7% despite relatively high non-cat weather related losses in the quarter.
Net favorable prior year reserve development was very strong at $292 million pretax and cat losses were relatively modest at $46 million pretax.
That said as shown on Page 4 of the webcast current quarter results were lower than our very strong fourth quarter of 2014 results mostly due to the impact of low interest rates and private equity returns on net investment income and in even higher amount of net favorable prior year reserve development in the prior year quarter.
Underlying underwriting margins were pretty much the same in both quarters.
Fixed income NII of $422 million after-tax was down $31 million from the prior year quarter principally due to what we have been saying for many years.
Securities has had higher book yields have gone off during the past 12 months and have been replaced with securities having lower yields due to the current low interest rate environment.
Another contributing factor to lower fixed income NII was the modest reduction in average investments that resulted in part from the company's $579 million first quarter 2015 payment to settle the Asbestos Direct Action Litigation.
Looking forward based on the current interest rate environment we would expect to the impact of lower reinvestment yields and a lower level of fixed maturity investments could in 2016 result in approximately $20 million to $25 million of lower after-tax NII on a quarterly basis when compared to the corresponding periods of 2015.
Non-fixed income NII of $25 million after tax was down $42 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to lower private equity returns.
Private equities essential broke even this quarter as compared to earning $30 million after tax in the prior year quarter due to lower valuations for energy-related investments.
Each of our business segments continue to benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and business in international insurance net favorable development of $176 million pretax primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in workers comp for accident years 2006 and prior and accident year 2014.
In general liability for both primary and excess coverage’s for accident years 2012 and prior and then the company's operations in Canada.
In Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance net favorable development of $80 million pretax primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience and fidelity ensured date for rest of the years 2012 through 2014.
And in personal insurance net favorable development of $36 million pretax primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in auto liability for accident years 2013 and 14 and in homeowners and other liability for accident year 2014.
As I have done in the past I'd also like to provide you with some insight into what our combined 2015 scheduled peak is expected to share when it's filed on May 01.
On a combined stat basis for all of our U.S.
subs all accident years in the aggregate across all product lines are expected to develop favorably and all that one product line on scheduled peak are expected to develop either favorably or show very modest or de minimis unfavorable development.
The product line that is expected to develop unfavorably by approximately $50 million free tax is products liability occurrence but another product line other liability occurrence will have an offsetting amount of favorable development as we've refined our allocation of IBNR between these two components of general liability based upon how losses such as those related to construction defect have been developing by coverage type.
In total our general liabilities were not - general liability reserves were not affected by this action.
Returning to GAAP for the year we had net favorable development of $941 million pretax with approximately $840 million coming from our U.S.
ops and a little over $100 million coming from our Canadian and U.K.
operations.
There are two additional topics I'd like to update you on.
As shown on Page 21 on the webcast we renewed our corporate cat aggregate XOL Treaty effective January 1.
The treaty provides coverage for both single cat events and an accumulation of losses from multiple cat events with similar terms as in the prior year but at a lower cost.
The treaty continues to provide $1.5 billion of coverage part of $2 billion excess of $3 billion after a $100 million deductible per occurrence.
It keeps the same broad parallel and geographic coverage in the same positioning of the coverage layer providing a significant buffer between earnings and capital.
The treaty has a single limit with no reinstatement provisions.
And please note that the total cost of this treaty and therefore the reduction and cost are quite small in relation to our operating income.
The second topic relates to the recent drop in oil prices.
Page 22 of the webcast contains updated information showing the magnitude of our investments in below investment-grade energy bonds and energy-related equities.
And you can see that some of these investments is relatively small and the exposure is quite manageable.
Operating cash flows remain strong $760 million in the fourth quarter after making a $100 million discretionary contribution to our qualified pension plan bringing total operating cash flows to over $3.4 billion for the year.
We continue to generate much more capital than we need to support our businesses and consistent with our ongoing capital management strategies as you heard from Alan.
We returned to almost $1.2 billion of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter through dividends of $183 million and common share repurchases of a little over $1 billion.
For the full year we returned almost $4 billion of excess capital to our shareholders through dividends of $744 million and common share repurchases of over $3.2 billion.
Holding company liquidly ended the year at $1.6 billion well above our target level and our debt-to-total capital ratio which was 23% at the beginning of the quarter slightly elevated due to our having issued $400 million of debt in the third quarter to prefund $400 million of debt that was maturing in the fourth quarter has come back down to 22.1% well within its target range with the retirement of that debt.
Net unrealized investment gains were almost $2 billion pretax or $1.3 billion after tax which was down from $3 billion and $2 billion respectively at the beginning of the year due to an increase in interest rates and spreads.
Book value per share of $79.75 grew 3% from the beginning of the year and importantly adjusted book value per share of $75.39 which eliminates the after tax impact of net unrealized investment gains grew by 6% this year.
So with that let me turn the microphone over to Brian.
Thanks Jay.
Business in international insurance results for both the fourth quarter and the full year was strong.
We continue to generate excellent returns with a full year combined ratio of 92.1% and our retention throughout the year was very strong and reached a record level this quarter in our domestic business.
Pricing trends remained relatively consistent with renewal rate change still slightly positive at the end of the year while new business volume in our domestic business saw a modest increase.
Turning to the quarter's financial results operating income was $566 million with a very strong combined ratio of 89.6.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes the impact of cats and prior year reserve development was 94.4% up a half a point compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 primarily due to a higher level of non- cat weather related losses.
Looking at the topline net written premiums for the quarter were down about 1.5 points compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 with domestic business insurance premiums up about a point.
In domestic business insurance we remain pleased with the continued execution of our pricing strategy.
As we've been saying for some time given the attractive returns that we are generating in this business our focus continues to be on retention and accordingly we’re very pleased that retention improved to a record 85% in the quarter.
Renewal premium change came in at 2.4 points while renewal rate change remained positive but down slightly versus the third quarter.
New business of $476 million was up compared to both the prior year and the third quarter.
Looking at each of our individual domestic businesses beginning with Select rate in renewal premium change were in line with recent quarters while retention remains strong at 82% demonstrating continued stability in this segment of the market.
In the middle market we achieved record retention of 88% overall rate change was about flat and reflected a decline of about a point from the third quarter.
As we've always said the execution below the headline numbers is what matters and we continue to see a great about the granular results.
Retention for our best performing business was just over 90% within average rate decline of less than 2% on those accounts while for our poor performing business we continued to get a rate in excess of loss trend.
In terms of exposure the quarter's results include a drag of about a point from our oil and gas business resulting from reduced economic activity due to lower energy prices.
Just as a reference point our oil and gas business makes up only about 3% of domestic business insurance written premium.
Middle market new business of $254 million was up from the third quarter and in line with the prior year.
In other business insurance retention was strong at 80% renewal rate change was about flat even after being negatively impacted by our national property business.
As I mentioned last quarter  although national property is seeing the largest rate declines of any business in our portfolio we are pleased with the overall performance of this business.
Returns and retention remains strong and pricing trends are stable.
Excluding national property renewal rate change for other business insurance remains positive and was relatively stable with the third quarter.
Turning to international net written premiums were down about 16% for the quarter and 14% for the full year primarily due to the adverse impact of foreign exchange rate.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange net written premiums for the fourth quarter were down about 6% largely driven by declines in retention in Canada and to a lesser extent at Lloyd's.
International retention was down in the quarter to 79% however renewal premium change was slightly positive and new business for the quarter was very strong at $80 million up 18% year-over-year.
In Canada our competitive renewal environment adversely impacted retention across our book.
However in June we launched Optima our new strategic insurance platform in Canada for personal insurance.
Optima was modeled after our U.S.
based Quantum Auto 2.0.
product.
We’re in the early days of the roll-out but are pleased with the initial response as we are seeing a significant increase in new business volume.
In Lloyd’s we continue to see a challenging markets resulting from global economic conditions particularly in our marine business.
Offsetting this pressure our two new business products that we have recently launched focused on renewable energy and global construction and early returns are encouraging.
So all in for the segment it was a terrific 2015 with strong financial results and what we see as a remarkably stable environment when our competitive advantages really matter to our customers and agents.
Before I turn it over to Doreen I want to make one comment on our outlook for operating margins which we include in our quarterly fillings.
Since our 10-K won’t be filed for a few weeks I would note that we expect our 2016 underlying underwriting margins for the segment will be broadly consistent with 2015.
This is subject to the usual caveats and forward looking statement disclaimers.
With that let me turn it over to Doreen.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance finished 2015 with another quarter of exceptional financial results.
Operating income for the quarter was 162 million down from the fourth quarter of 2014 due to lower net favorable prior year reserve development but overall still a great result.
The underlying combined ratio of 80.7 was three point four points better than the prior year quarter due primarily to two factors a modest increase in a loss ratio in the prior year quarter that resulted from a re-estimation of the first three quarters of 2014 and secondly the impact of certain customer related intangible assets which became fully amortized during the second quarter of 2015.
Underlying underwriting results continue to run well within our long term target ranges and as Alan mentioned the full year underlying combined ratio of 80.1 was an all time best.
We obviously don't think these results come by accident.
We pride ourselves on maintaining the underwriting discipline aggressive management of risk and limits strong accountant and agency relationship analytics and claims management that drive these results.
As we look ahead to 2016 for this segment we expect underlying underwriting margin to remain broadly consistent with 2015.
As for top line net written premiums in the aggregate were down 4% from the fourth quarter of 2014 primarily due to a decline in surety volume driven by lower bonding needs for our accounts particularly as compared to the strong production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Surety production can vary significantly quarter-over-quarter based on the number size and timing of bonded construction projects awarded to our customers.
We have a strong portfolio of surety clients and believe we remain well positioned to capitalize on increased bonding needs that might result from an improved economy.
Across our management liability businesses retention remains strong at 85% while new business premium was up 17% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
Renewal premium changed trended down with lower rate being partially offset by an increase in other RPC which includes changes in the size of insured exposures in the midst written attachment point and policy duration.
The lower rate was as expected and is consistent with the strong profitability of our portfolio.
So all-in-all another great quarter closing a strong year for Bond &amp; Specialty Insurance.
I'll turn now to personal insurance where we closed out the year with another quarter of exceptional underwriting results.
So the segment operating income for the quarter was 222 million and the underlying combined ratio was 86.2%.
Great results and as we move forward the segment remains positioned to perform in line with our long term return growth.
I'll touch on the quarterly results for agency auto and agency property in a moment but first I’d like to share with you some thoughts on how we view the underlying health of these businesses.
First for auto I’ll start by saying how pleased we are with the vibrancy of our auto business.
The market response from both agents and consumers to Quantum Auto 2.0 remains incredibly strong and the portfolio is positioned to generate financial returns within our long term target range.
In the agency channel we added 167 000 policies during 2015 an 8% increase from the end of 2014.
As always there remains competition in auto and we remain committed to keeping our products priced accordingly through disciplined expense management and superior pricing and underwriting segmentation.
As we look ahead to 2016 we expect the auto business to continue to grow in both policy accounts and premium volume although at a more moderated percentage than 2015 as the portfolio grows.
As per agency auto profitability we’ve mentioned on several occasions that we’re comfortable with where our margins are given the current market environment.
That still remains the case today.
The full year underlying agency combined ratio of just under 97% was in line with our expectations for the year and a result we are pleased with.
This combined ratio is somewhat higher than our long term goal.
We have been particular by the amount of new business that we've added over the past two years.
Quantum Auto 2.0 is priced to our long term target returns.
But as you all know the relatively higher combined ratio of new business improves over time.
As we look into 2016 the significant volume of new business we've added will drive a slightly higher calendar year combined ratio compared to 2015.
So far the profitability of Quantum Auto 2.0 is maturing in line with our expectation.
With this return profile we continue to seek more new business as it should be accretive to long term return.
In homeowner the financial returns generated in the last couple of years have been exceptional and well within our target range.
As you recall we made significant improvement in the risk profile of this business over the last few years including changes in deductibles other terms and conditions and tightened underwriting guidelines.
Of course this is a more volatile business that will always have a weather dynamic to it.
The weather in the last couple of years has been somewhat lower than our model suggested.
But we know that won't always be the case.
As we look ahead to 2016 we expect the profitability - we do expect underlying underwriting margins in agency homeowners and other to be lower than 2015 reflecting more normalized levels of loss activity.
As Alan mentioned we are also very pleased with the improvements we've seen in homeowners production.
This is attributable in part to account rounding along with making some localized pricing and process adjustments.
And certainly the turnaround benefited from the momentum and agent engagement from the roll-out of Quantum Auto 2.0.
At this point the business has leveled-off from a policies and force perspective and we expect modest growth in 2016.
Now I'll just highlight a couple of things specific to the quarter.
Looking at agency auto new business premium was up 32% and net premium was up 12% from fourth quarter 2014 level and we have added 51 000 policies during the quarter.
The combined ratio for the quarter was 98.1 and included over two points of favorable prior year reserve development.
The underlying combined ratio was a 100.2 up from the prior year due predominantly to adverse weather in this year's quarter and the benefit in the prior year quarter of a 2.5 point favorable re-estimation of losses related to the first three quarters of 2014.
As per loss trend in auto our view of normalized frequency and severity remained consistent with recent quarters at around 3% in aggregate.
There continues to be a lot of discussion about trend particularly increase in frequency.
From our advantage point while we may observe normal fluctuations in any particular period due to things like weather we see a stable and unchanged long term frequency trend.
As always we continue to monitor external information and our own data closely using our expenses analytic capability.
Turning to agency homeowners and other for the quarter we once again had strong financial results despite relatively active weather in the month of December.
The underlying combined ratio of 59.5 was slightly higher than the exceptionally favorable prior year quarter.
As for production new business premiums were up 27% from the prior year quarter and continue to trend favorably while retention remained strong at 85%.
Policies in force were up slightly both sequentially from last quarter and from the fourth quarter of 2014.
So to sum up personal insurance we are exceptionally proud of the year we've had and look forward to more of the same in 2016.
With that I'll turn the call back to Gabi.
Thank you Doreen.
Tina we are now ready for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
If I can ask you all to please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you very much.
Tina go ahead please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
The first question I had was on the potential for share buyback.
Alan any change in view in terms of deploying loan excess annual earnings and share buybacks - got buybacks is – just slightly annually over the past - thinking we might put that trend in place for 2016 2017 as well.
Jay good morning.
Thanks for the question.
No change in strategy or approach to share buybacks or capital management overall and there is no intent to this it's never been an effort to deploy more than earnings right.
We had excess capital in past years and we made that very clear that we were sort of adding that to our annual income to buy back stock but we said I don't know a year or two ago that our level of buybacks would be tied to our level of income.
And so we’ll have a level of earnings we’ll do what we need to do with it whether that’s making pension contributions or investments in the business and we’ll take what’s left in and return that to shareholders and there won’t be a perfect correlation between earnings in a year and share buybacks in a year.
There is some timing differences but I think as we said pretty consistently recently share buybacks going forward will be tied to earnings.
Okay.
And then on the investment income from the non-fixed income investments it was clearly impacted by lower energy prices in 4Q and given the collapse in energy prices so far this year I’m just trying to get a base on what you might expect for 2016 is that $25 million results taking ahead lower on a quarterly basis from what we saw in 4Q.
Let me just clarify one thing $25 million that relates to fixed income portfolio not the non-fixed income portfolio.
Jay its Bill Heyman.
Obviously this week is a hard week from which to extrapolate for the rest of the year.
The marks as of year-end reflected a price which was an oil price higher than the price which obtained today but not by as much as one might think.
During the year most funds wrote down their holdings and in some cases after the write-downs the price of petroleum rose but nothing was written up again.
So we think a lot of these portfolios have been marked pretty hard.
That said if we had to predict either way there is probably a little downside left in the portfolio but the portfolio isn’t that big that the amount are to be material then the aggregate.
Okay that's helpful for a starting point.
And Jay just to clarify so as talking about the $25 million of income in 4Q from the non-fixed income investment portfolio in terms of the – fixed income I understand what you were saying in terms of lower - I apologize for the confusion there.
That's okay no problem so but Bill you’re saying that $25 million after tax we saw in 4Q shouldn't be that impacted by lower energy prices even so far.
No I couldn’t put a number on this especially after the first part of this month but I’m simply saying that everyone assumes that there is a lot of downside based on prices as they are today and there might be less downside than it appears simply because of the way in which funds mark their holdings in 2015.
Thank you.
Thank you Tina.
Next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner of FBR &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
I think you touched on this in the opening commentary but from my perspective the pricing - the headline pricing number you provided in the slide-deck the plus 0.6% was better than expected and I guess I’m interested in your perspective and if you think Travelers is unique here a lot of the headlines surveys that we will get in the industry for commercial lines are moving significantly negative across the board.
So I just want to get your perspective on it if you think Travelers is unique here and how kind of much discipline I guess you think - your competitors are holding against the software market? Randy good morning it’s Alan.
You said it was a surprise it wasn't a so a surprise to us it may've been a surprise to you or others but relatively to the surveys what we can tell you is we’re showing a real data and I think what we’ve always seen is surveys tend to be anecdotally based and tend to maybe over emphasize some volatility either up or down because maybe the people respond to the surveys or thinking about the last transaction or the transactions in their mind.
So there is really nothing about this that surprises us and you know we've been saying for a while that we expect the amplitude of the market to moderate.
This appears to have moderated and I think you know the fact that we can achieve what we did is I think a function of two things one our data and analytics our expertise our ability to execute at a very very granular level and a marketplace that is we would describe as remarkably stable and at the moment rational.
Just a quick follow up are there any lines that are really helping that figure meaning is workers’ comp still kind of the best from a pricing perspective where some other casually lines might be moving negative? No this is Brian.
It's still a pretty tight band to be honest with you across all the lines.
So nothing is dramatically out of pattern up or down.
As we commented and Alan touched on in his comments and I in mine it’s a more larger accounts feeling more pressure than medium and smaller accounts as we said national property is the space where we’re seeing you know more significant rate declines than others.
So I think it’s more an account size than a line of business volatility or variability.
That's great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
I guess Doreen maybe a little bit more on the auto side have you seen any impact from the rise in miles driven in your auto book just given the fact that your growth is sort of come alongside that rise in miles driven? So let me just talk a little bit about miles driven.
The data shows that probably year-to-date the miles driven are up about 2.5% per capita and there is still a lot of debate about whether that makes a difference if it's a long trip a short trip whether there is unemployment whether you have safety features in your vehicles and so you know we watch that closely but our long term trend of 3% anticipate that and we really haven't seen anything that that particular item is causing us to view frequency differently today.
And just to be crystal clear the 3% is total trend where the frequency being a small fraction of it.
And then I guess in middle market I mean with retention up in the high 80s is that something that you could see that maybe coming down or would you be comfortable with that at a lower level if you saw an opportunity to find some more rate increase opportunities.
Just seems like high 80s if pricing is flat and the result are pretty good I mean is that an area where you could look to push for some more rate at some point? This is Brian again.
That is a constant balancing act in our organization every day.
I will tell you that overall our core middle market business from a return perspective is in a very healthy spot and as I said in the comments when we look at our better performing business which is not a tiny part of the portfolio our very well performing business we are at retentions north of 90 with pretty modest price increases.
We’d obviously love to renew it in the 90s with different price increases but retaining that business is a real priority because it is returning very very well.
With that said we’re always looking for opportunities to see where we can balance the rate and retention trade off.
Yes I'd add to that that even though that’s not the headline number that continues to be a headline number and the execution below that number is very very granular.
So we’re not managing that headline number we’re managing every single account.
And just real quick.
Alan or Bill did you guys disclose - definitely appreciate your scores on the energy portfolio.
Do you guys disclose anywhere you have the BBB minus category of energy exposure as well just that sort of next rating level up? Well I can say that the investment grade portfolio has an average rating of single A and the high-yield portfolio which is 23 credits with book value of $162 million has an average rating of BB minus which given the size or to give you what you need.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
I was just thinking may you live an interesting times.
You've had good fortune here to become CEO at the time the industry structure is changing very rapidly.
I mean obviously over the past six months we've seen ACE and Chubb merge.
It creates a very large and powerful competitor.
And on the other hand over at AIG there is presumably going to be lots of opportunities for everyone in the industry.
As you thought from Travelers perspective how the environment is evolving how are you guys going to sort of tackle these new challenges and opportunities and what should we do to seek Travelers take advantage of all these change in the market? So I guess what I would share with you is that we are very aware and deeply engaged in all of those things.
So whether that's - what's going on with any of our competitors or what's going on with technology or big data or driverless cars consolidation among distribution you could go on and on.
I think what I would share with you is we're very aware and deeply engaged.
As we see all of those things and others those by the way weren't meant to be necessarily in order what's top in my mind just what came to my mind but as we think of everything that's got the potential to change in this marketplace nothing is going to change overnight.
These are things that are all going to evolve and develop overtime.
And what we've got great confidence in is our positioning to manage all of them.
So we think we can understand and manage.
We've got the talent we've got the resources we've got a deep understanding of risk and reward.
And the quality of our underlying business the results you see this quarter and this year we've got no distractions.
So we are starting from a really good point as we think about and engage on all of those issues.
And without taking one by one for the most part and maybe all in we see more opportunities than we do risk.
But we're certainly examining them from both sides making sure that where there is opportunity we're positioning ourselves to be able to leverage it and where there is risk that we're making sure we do everything we need to do to mitigate it.
I wonder if we could maybe just switch gears a little bit.
You've mentioned risk.
Could you give us a little bit of - either Alan or Brian or whoever is appropriate a little bit of help of understanding what the liability side exposures maybe not Travelers per say but generally for the industry from a meltdown and the commodities and energy patch would be.
I mean presumably we might see a bunch of bankruptcies use a lot of different product lines that everybody in the industry sells under companies.
And I remember a decade or so ago Chubb really surprised people when they had got hurt and energy surety deal with Enron.
And obviously both D&amp;O and E&amp;O exposures and maybe work comps severity.
So I'm sure you guys are playing defense here.
I'm wondering if you can help us sort of things through how you and your underwriters are thinking about potential exposures if they've had part of the role keeps getting hurt.
I'll start and I'll look at either Brian or Doreen and invite them to jump in.
I'll say you sort of hit it.
We think about the loss side of that equation all the time and whether it's going to our measure and liability book or surety book making sure that we understand what our exposures are.
And I'll say that we look at these things - we don't wait for there to be something significant in the marketplace to look at it we're looking at it all the time and as far out as we can.
So we're managing our nets we're looking on the surety side what kind of collateral we have for instance on some of these accounts.
We exit accounts when we need to exit accounts.
But we've got a really good track record I think in all of those businesses.
So just on manageable liability side for example we're much more heavily waited on the private non-profit side as opposed to the large public D&amp;O.
And so it's - this is what we do every day is manage risk and think about risk and reward.
The only thing I'd add to that is that when we see any potential issue we run that through our entire book of business not just what that class of business is.
So we look at all the consequential effects that they may have on related industries.
And so for example in writing bank we look at the level of their portfolios that are exposed not just to oil and gas but any one thing in particular.
So obviously surety watching credit and looking at collateral other management liability areas looking at concentration but this is unique to us.
We always take an issue and run it through the entire book and look at any consequences that might come from that.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Ryan Tunis of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I think my first question is for Brian.
And I think he mentioned in his prepared remarks that in middle market I think the better accounts you were - renewing I think with the modest rate decline.
The decline but it's kind of like it was only modest.
I guess I'm just curious how is the conversation changing with those better accounts now versus maybe a year ago.
Right now like I said something maybe a modest decline I mean is that kind of where - whatever one is kind of looking for is still just modest or - how's that conversation evolving? It's pretty much as you're saying and as you would expect based on the data.
A couple of years ago almost every conversation was starting with some form of price increase even for the best accounts because everybody saw where the trends were and that is gradually mitigated overtime.
But even with those better accounts the conversation start somewhere with trying to renew it at a modest decline or flat.
Obviously if the average is less than 2% there is still some that are positive.
The thing that we're doing probably a little different than we were a year or two ago is we're really trying to get out as early as possible frequently at least three if not six months ahead of time have conversations with the broker and the account.
I think we do have a strong franchise with a valued product and valued services.
And fortunately most of those company start by wanting to stay with us.
And then I think the other key point is really being able to have the data and analytics where our frontline people can see and really segment their portfolio and in the middle market account by account.
Look at how they're performing.
And when there are issues either in that account in that line or in that class of business being able to have an informed conversation with the broker about what those are and why we're trying to do what we're doing on the account really really makes a difference.
So I'd say the big change is getting out early and having a kind of granular conversation on the performance of that line and that business.
My follow up was actually follow-up to Jay's question on capital return and excessive operating income.
I guess since the start of 2014 we see like your premiums surplus ratio has drifted up from about 1% to 1.2%.
Leverage has been relatively flat.
You've said over the past couple of years you've had access.
You've been able to deploy.
How do we think about that level of access? Just because on those metrics it does seem like whatever access you did have you have sort of used to at certain extend.
Are those metrics even relevant? The premium to surplus ratio I would view as not being relevant at all.
I mean that was a ratio that was used at a time when rating agencies and regulators didn't have the sophisticated models they have today.
So I've said on previous calls we deal with each one of the models whether it's our internal models regulatory models or the rating agency models to come to a place where given the profile of our business as it relates to each quarter what is the capital that we think we need in the operating entities that we manage to support AA rating and support a solid AA rating not one with the wind blows we're worried about our ratings going down.
So that's always the starting point.
Given the size of our book it doesn't change very much from quarter to quarter but what does change is the profitability in each quarter.
So there are some quarters where the profitability whether it's for favorable development or some other things to take place it's higher than our expectations keeping in mind that we have a flow of monies out of the operating companies up to the holding company each quarter based on expectation.
So to the extend we earn more.
We bring some more up probably a little later than that.
I think if you go back over time and you go pass two years ago to an earlier period and start adding up the earning versus the share repurchase that you see that there is a very very strong correlation to that.
So I wouldn't read into anything that says one year we've done a little more than earnings in other year we did less.
It's really just as Alan said earlier the timing.
The premium to surplus ratio goes up a little bit I've kind of ignored that and what I would look at is in our supplement we talk about specifically on a quarterly basis what the stat surplus is.
And I think you can see that that moves around probably in a pretty narrow band.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Just a question on loss cost trend and the pricing roughly flat.
Curious how you’re managing to leave margins flat in '16 versus '15? So this is Brian.
And speaking for the BII segment you start with the kind of simple arithmetic of the earned premium.
And again it's not just rate its price which includes exposure change and does offset some of trends.
So when we look at the arithmetic of earned rate versus loss trend we come up with a very modest about a 0.5% of loss ratio compression into 2016.
And that of course is based on our assumption of loss trend which is as we've said running right now at about 4% and looking at a relatively stable orderly marketplace.
And then that's offset by a variety of other factors you can think of whether large losses mix change underwriting actions et cetera.
But the real starting point is that compression from the rate loss trend dynamic price loss trends dynamic is a pretty modest number in how we're looking at it.
And I think that distinction between price and rate is important because as we said in the past there is a meaningful component of exposure that from a profitability perspective behaves like rate.
And so what we really see in that true margin deterioration is we see going forward as Brian said it's very small and probably within the margin of error of all the other things that impact margin.
The second question is on the pace of future rate increases you mentioned that on a best counts you have rate decreases of less than 2%.
So curious to what proportion of the accounts now are well performing.
So should we see sort for the pressure on pricing this year because more of the accounts are better performing? I think there is a level of granularity and precision here that's for competitive reasons.
I'm not going to overly segment the portfolio.
I think the backdrop to this is really the view of do we think the industry is going to continue to fundamentally be focused on the returns on the products.
And we think that's the right way to be thinking about the business and we're optimistic that the majority of the marketplace is actually looking at that.
So the healthier the business the more pressure there should be on pricing but in the aggregate we're pretty comfortable that we should be able to generate appropriate with pricing to maintain reasonable returns.
And then you can come up with any variation on the theme you want off of that and be as bullish or as bearish as you want.
Our next question comes from Charles Sebaski with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
I have couple of question I guess on the personal lines business.
I guess the first on the personal auto growth and the success you had from Quantum.
Is that coming from standalone auto policies? I guess I'm trying to just understand that you kind of sweet spot seems to be on package multi policy programs.
You have auto growth while homeowners' is flat.
Just kind of wondering how you're working in the auto growth relative to your kind of packaged program? Good morning this is Doreen.
We've actually seen success in force.
I think this was some of what Alan and I referred to in our earlier comments.
Clearly our auto product was competitive in agent's office and also in the direct channel.
And in many cases what that did because we are an account focused company that allowed us then to bring the home with it.
So we've seen standalone auto come in we've seen more opportunities for cross-selling.
And I don't think it's anything small given Quantum Auto 2.0 that we've been able to actually increase and stop the shrinkage in homeowners.
We've also put some processes in place that have been very helpful where it prefills certain information so that if someone is looking at an auto quote it will prefill for home.
So we like the account business we continue to look for that.
But given where the returns are and where we're going with auto we are pleased with that as well.
Just a follow up to a comment that you guys made in the business insurance regarding the exposure drag and the oil and gas exposure I think you said that oil and gas accounted for one point exposure drag but that oil and gas only accounted for 3% of the book or is that 3% of the exposure? I guess I was trying to understand how 3% could account for a one point drag.
The 3% is a premium number but the exposure as you can imagine was down pretty significantly.
So when you've combined the 3% against a pretty big exposure delta in oil and gas that drove the 1%.
And the 3% is the total domestic business insurance not to middle market in that written premium.
So that's a good point and maybe we shouldn't mix those two numbers.
The 1% drag was on the middle market exposure change.
The 3% was on total domestic BI.
So we did that arithmetic quickly.
The 3% is the premium the book.
The 1% is on the charge and the exposure.
The 1% exposure drag is middle market exposure the 3% is quantifying a percentage of the premiums of our oil and gas business on the total business insurance.
Right.
The premium on just middle market would be a higher number.
The math just didn't seem to work I appreciate the clarity.
Great.
And this will be our last and final question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
First question is on reserve releases.
Looks like workers comp have releases in 2014 accident year just curious while it is already release rather than for this - normally a long tail line of basis can you talk also in general what's loss cost trend by major lines and how that compare with your 4% assumption in overall loss cost trends? This is Jay Benet.
Just in terms of the reserve release when you're dealing with a long tail line you've two components to how you're going to look to results.
One is what has developed in terms of loss activity and you're absolutely right.
In a short period of time you're not going to really see a great deal of activity.
On the other hand what you've done is you established the starting point for what you think the loss activity is going to be and we refer to that as the loss pick.
So just imagine on January 1 trying to predict what the losses are going to be for the entire period of time as those workers comp policies will be out there.
And we come up with a loss pick and the example I'm going to use I'm just making up a number let's say it's 60% based on what you've seen historically.
And looking at the historical data then for earlier accident years and evaluating that against that initial loss pick that you had for a current year and there were times when you see loss activity in prior years that you say that really has no barring whatsoever on how I thought about the starting point for the current year and then there are times when you look at it and say no actually this really does change the bar for the starting point.
So usually on a long tail line of business when you see us do what we’ve done here it's based on what we refer to is base here moment.
Looking at the history and just saying that the initial loss pick was a little on the high side.
This is Brian.
Just to respond to your - trend by line in business is actually a pretty tight band with ranging from the high 3s to the high 4s but an average trend of right around 4%.
So nothing is really out of pattern by line.
My follow up question is for Alan.
Now you have 7 weeks on the new role so I just wonder what’s your top priority these days and what you think - you have the right strategy in place now but what are you focusing on? Sure.
Thanks for the question Kai.
So I had experienced managing essentially all of our commercial business and our businesses outside the U.S.
what I haven't had experienced with is the personalized business on a relative basis not as much personalized business in some of our functions like claim and IT and ops and things like that risk control so I’m trying to spend a lot of time in those businesses and areas that I haven't had the experience with trying to spend a lot of time on the road out in the field with distribution and our employees in the field which has always been a priority of mine.
And I guess beyond that in my comments I said one of the things that we’re going to do is continue to evolve and innovate and reassessing is something that we’ve always done and Jay Fishman has always led that initiative.
And so I have taken that over from Jay and just like Jay didn’t do it alone Jay did it with the group I’ll continue to leave the group in making sure that we’re accessing what’s going on in the marketplace and we’re evolving and innovating.
So I would say that makes up so the way I'm allocating my turn.
Thank you very much for all the answers.
Great.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
As always the Investors Relation team is available for any follow up questions you might have.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines.
Thank you and have a good day.