Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jon Kathol.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' Conference Call for the first quarter of our 2012 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
Because our shareholders' meeting is this morning we have to end the call by 9:15 Central.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Our first quarter earnings were $0.42 a share compared to $0.78 for the first quarter of 2011.
Now keep in mind that our Q1 last year was the best quarter in company history.
And although the comparison is unfavorable Q1 of '12 is still equal to our second best Q1 ever.
Our biggest challenge in Q1 came in our Beef segment which had an operating margin of only 0.9%.
There are a lot of moving parts to what's happening there and we'll have Jim get into those details in his remarks.
The Chicken segment's improving with a 1.2% return on sales.
And although that's still well below the normalized operating margin range we're pleased with the progress from Q4 as lower supplies have supported pricing.
Supply and demand appear to be in balance and we have positioned ourselves well from that perspective.
So we're staying cautiously optimistic for now but we need to keep a careful eye on the impact price increases may have on demand and remain flexible so as not to overproduce consumer demand for our products.
Our Pork segment continues to do exceptionally well and had an 11.2% return on sales in Q1.
Our outlook remains favorable for our Pork segment to continue to perform very well.
Prepared Foods has made a lot of progress even while facing high raw material pricing and earned a 5.9% return on sales for the quarter which is at the top end of our normalized range.
Now taking a look at the macro environment consumer confidence and spending improved in the last part of calendar 2011 as expected.
According to the Conference Board Consumer Research Center consumers are more optimistic that business conditions employment prospects and their financial situations will continue to get better.
But it's still too soon to tell if this is a rebound from earlier declines or a sustainable shift in attitudes.
According to the Perishable Group data while dollar sales of fresh meat at retail were up 3% versus last year volume was down a little over 5% led by beef and pork down 8% and 7% respectfully [ph] while chicken pounds were about flat.
Our view is that this trend will continue.
Bacon and lunchmeat sales were stronger in Q1 versus last year again driven by price improvement.
And the frozen breaded category showed a slight decline.
Industry indicators show that modest improvement and potential for food service in 2012 however.
Real sales growth has been consistently positive for the last 2 years.
Forecasts for 2012 call for a 0.7% growth in commercial traffic.
Major QSR change supermarket delis education and hospitals are the sources of growth and are expected to continue to grow faster than the rest of the industry.
Operators are leveraging dayparts including snacks and breakfast.
And we have been and will continue helping our customers develop products to fit into those meal locations.
The ideal proposition is offering better food at a better price.
Consumers seem to be moving away from the dollar menu to more moderately priced items such as nuggets strips breaded chicken sandwiches and pizza and the industry is providing the quality cues that justify paying a little more.
Our product development opportunity is to deliver good and better for an acceptable value and we've positioned ourselves to be on a leading edge as we see changes in the marketplace.
Now turning to international.
We're excited about the progress we're making especially in China.
As we mentioned last time our CapEx plan in 2012 is larger than previous years in part to build company-owned live production in China.
We began operations in Jiangsu in November and the start-up is on schedule.
We're very optimistic about the prospects for our China operations.
We have a great customer base there and we're building the team to execute our operating and selling strategies.
Another part of our CapEx plan includes adding a second shift to our Brazilian plants and we're executing that plan.
We're very pleased with the progress of our operations in Brazil.
In addition good economic conditions are supporting domestic prices as well as increasing demand for more value-added products.
And with a favorable foreign exchange rate export sales from Brazil are becoming more cost competitive.
As for U.S.
domestic protein availability our view is largely unchanged as the global demand for protein continues to grow and U.S.
exports remain strong.
The production cuts in the poach industry made in the past year along with the decline in beef supplies will be partially offset by an increase in pork and turkey availability leading to what we think will be a 1% to 2% decline in domestic availability of protein in 2012.
Now moving on to the total company outlook.
On our previous call we forecasted our earnings in 2012 to be in excess of $2.
We still feel pretty good about coming in around the $2 mark but we think it would be overly optimistic to say "in excess of" at this point because of the headwinds we're currently facing in beef not to mention the volatility in the grain markets.
Several things have to go right in our segments but we're optimistic and we've positioned our business to make things go right for us more often than not.
We're more flexible and with our strong balance sheet we're better able to react to change and seize opportunities.
And that's what we're focused on now.
That concludes my opening remarks.
I'll turn it over to Jim for a review of our segment results and then followed by Dennis with the financial report.
Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
The Pork segment continued to perform very well with an 11.2% return on sales and $165 million in operating income.
We continue to manage our revenue to operating cost through mix price and efficiency while managing the total revenue to hog cost spread.
We believe export demand will remain strong and we think hog supplies will increase slightly to 1% to 2% year-over-year.
We expect our Pork segment to continue to perform well throughout the balance of year but it is unlikely for the results to stay at the Q1 levels.
Our Prepared Foods segment had a very good quarter with a 5.9% return on sales and $51 million in operating income.
One of the standout products in Prepared Foods is Wright Brand Bacon.
We increased points of distribution by nearly 10 000 locations across the country in fiscal '11 and given the strength of the Wright Brand we plan on extending it to other categories in the next few months.
Although input pricing for Prepared Foods will continue to be an issue we expect ongoing operational improvements and increased sales prices to offset rising raw material costs.
We expect our results for the Prepared Foods segments to be in the normalized range for the fiscal year.
Turning to the Chicken segment.
We continue to see improvement as a result of pricing and mix as we grow value-added and shrink our commodity sales.
We had a 1.2% return on sales and $32 million in operating income compared to a negative 2.9% and a loss of $82 million in Q4.
Chicken should gain momentum throughout the year and we still expect to achieve $125 million in operational efficiencies this year including live production improvements.
If supplies stay in line we have the potential for our Chicken segment to be at the low end of the normalized range in the second half of fiscal '12.
Egg sets continue to be down 5% to 6% year-over-year in recent weeks and pullet placements were down 7% on average over the past 3 months as total supplies remain pulled back.
We expect to remain disciplined in our placements and production to manage our supply relative to our demand forecast and manage the overall revenue relative to the new norm in feed input costs.
In the Beef segment we made $31 million in operating income or 0.9% return on sales compared to $118 million and 3.4% in Q4.
I saved the Beef segment for last because there's a lot to cover and it's important to understand what drove margin compression in Q1 and why we think it will recover.
While you're listening to this industry data keep in mind that Tyson still has the same people and plants that lead us to raise our normalized margin range in May 2010 and the same focus on execution that produced results in and above that range every quarter until now.
So I have every confidence in our team's ability to deal with the current circumstances.
First let's cover some obvious observations about Q1.
USDA reported beef carcass revenue increased 1.8% over the fourth quarter while cattle costs increased 7.1%.
Year-over-year beef carcass revenue increased 15.9% and cattle costs increased 22.2%.
The major driver behind the revenue increase was choice and higher middle meats.
This increased the choice select spread to an average of $17.30 per hundredweight compared to $7 in Q4 and $8 in Q1 of last year.
Demand for choice and higher middle meat cuts usually increases before the holidays and decreases just after the holidays.
This fall of spread was driven by -- was driven higher by a 3.6% reduction in the total steers and heifers process and a 1% lower grading of the whole population.
This resulted in 5% fewer choice animals available.
The choice select revenue spread increases because higher grading meat was in greater demand.
Market prices for the higher grading cattle drove up the average price for all cattle even for the lower grading cattle where the revenues did not warrant price paid.
The quality and yield grade of cattle vary tremendously from lot to lot.
The price paid needs to reflect the value difference but spot market prices did not reflect the true value differences.
Simply put the select cutout did not keep pace and the average cost of cattle increased beyond what the select cattle revenue justified.
This compressed margins in Q1.
Tyson actually processed 4.6% fewer head than a year ago in an effort to maintain overall margins.
Let's look at what's happening in Q2.
The choice selects difference quickly adjusted back to the $5 to $7 range.
Cattle costs declined reflecting the decreased overall cutout and then margins expanded.
The next week the cutout declined faster than expected and cattle costs increased creating margin compression again.
In a spread business like beef packing the revenues ultimately determine what the raw material cost will bear.
We attempt to forecast revenues 2 to 3 weeks in advance and project what cattle should cost to manage the margin.
This current revenue cost aberration will correct as weekly slaughter rates adjust.
We originally expected to see fiscal '12 fed steer and heifer slaughter decrease by 1% to 2% based on the 2010 calf crop trend and the trend line in heifer retention.
Since the industry processed 3.6% fewer animals in our first quarter and the cattle on feed report implies they are still in the pipeline we anticipate availability of fed steers and heifers to be adequate or even greater for the balance of fiscal '12.
As a result we expect our beef margins to improve through the quarter and throughout the year.
I would like to comment on the January cattle inventory report.
It showed a 2011 calf drop of 35.3 million which is our fiscal 2013 a part of our 2014 fed steer and heifer supply.
This was close to analysts' forecast showing a 1.1% decline.
We did see a 1.4% increase in the beef heifer numbers implying some modest herd rebuilding.
The beef cow inventory however was down 3.1% reflecting the drought-accelerated losses the last 6 months.
The declining future supply suggests probable changes in the feeding and packing industry in future years.
Again our plants are located in the historically competitive feedlot regions in the country.
In conclusion I'll say that our Beef business -- excuse me I'll say that all our business units understand the revenue and cost drivers.
They are projecting forward demand scenarios and revenues in all segments and matching supplies to demand to manage margins.
I want to thank them for their attention to the details and focus on quality and customer service.
With that I'll turn it over to Dennis.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As Donnie mentioned in his remarks we reported Q1 earnings of $0.42 per share.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months was just over 15%.
Capital expenditures were $182 million for the quarter reflecting numerous capital projects that will continue to benefit us in the future in both our domestic and foreign operations with enhanced production and labor efficiencies improved yields and sales mix.
Our operating cash flow remained strong at $338 million for Q1.
Including cash net debt was just under $1.4 billion down nearly $100 million from fiscal 2011.
Total liquidity was $1.7 billion well above our minimum goal of $1.2 billion.
Gross debt remained at $2.2 billion.
Gross debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months was 1.4x.
On a net debt to EBITDA basis this measure was 0.9x.
During the first quarter we acquired 1.8 million shares for $35 million under our share repurchase program.
To date we have repurchased 11.5 million shares since we reactivated this program which is about 3% of our outstanding shares.
Over time we are likely to repurchase the remaining 11 million shares under the current authorization of this program which would bring the total reduction of our outstanding shares to about 6%.
Our effective tax rate for Q1 was 35.8%.
So let's review our outlook for fiscal 2012.
Revenues are expected to exceed $34 billion driven largely by raw material prices and continued tight domestic protein availability.
We expect net interest expense to be approximately $185 million down $46 million from fiscal 2011.
The effective tax rate should be about 36%.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the first quarter was 376 million.
This reflects the dilutive share effect totaling 5 million for options and 4 million for convertible bonds which will fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
CapEx should be around $800 million to $850 million.
This reflects continued spending focused on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of our domestic and foreign operations while also continuing to build out our foreign businesses especially China.
In closing 2012 is off to a solid start given the challenges we were faced with involving chicken industry fundamentals and difficult beef market conditions.
All segments were profitable in Q1 despite those challenges and we are pleased to see our Chicken business return to profitability and continue to improve.
We are confident we will come through this year strong as we continue to focus on our areas of our business we can control: our cost structure efficiencies and our desire to help our customers innovate and grow their business.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll ask the operator to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm still a little bit surprised though given how few cattle are out there and how low capacity utilization around the packing industry may be that you're guiding within your normalized range for the back half of the year.
I'm just curious is there something else in your guidance maybe beyond the return to normal in that choice select supply and gradings and prices in the other items you mentioned? Or maybe you're expecting a competitor to close a plant.
Do you see some year-on-year comparisons maybe we don't? Any I guess further insights there would be appreciated.
Well let me start with your comment that cattle supplies are markedly lower or the implied that they are markedly lower.
A lot of times what people miss is we're dealing with a 2-year lag of the calf crop.
And if you really look at what the calf crop has been we're dealing right now with the remainder of '12 or calendar year's '10 calf crop which is 35.7 million.
That's not a big decrease compared to the last 2 years.
It's what we've been saying in that range of about 1%.
And that will always be dependent upon also what cattle are imported as well as heifer retention.
And -- so I don't see this big decrease.
And then I wanted to point out furthermore we saw in acnodes [ph] in that period we saw substantial pullback in industry numbers.
We also cut back 4.6% year-over-year.
So those cattle on feed are still in the pipeline.
We didn't process them to the same rate we had in prior years in the Q1 period.
And then in the last 5 weeks we're also running substantially below a year ago.
So we're pushing cattle out front.
And what really happened is cattle got higher-priced than the revenue was warranting.
Part of that was really driven -- when you look back in arrears that the choice select spread got wide.
We had a false sense of security of what the revenue on the wholesale prices was bringing as the normal choice middle meat choice and higher middle meat which is the rib meat strip meat and tenderloin meat increased.
And then when it seasonally correct we were out of balance and that's what caused this margin compression.
So I'm not as concerned in the fiscal year of '12 that we're going be tight in supply.
But as we look forward and we look at the calf crop of 2011 and we look at the projected calf crop for 2012 that's my comment basis.
We'll probably see some adjustments going forward.
So hopefully that answered the bulk of that question why I'm fairly very optimistic we'll get this back because we don't see the year-over-year big declines and we process fewer head in the acnodes [ph] in the last 5 weeks.
Research Division</strong> That is helpful.
Just as a follow-up are you -- the implication there may be -- and then we're looking way too far out here but for fiscal '13 we should see a steeper decline.
Or is it just too early to tell? Well fiscal '13 was last year's calf crop of 35.3 million which was down from the prior year of 35.7 million.
So again it will be dependent upon imported feeder cattle which I don't see adjusting appreciably and then whatever heifer retention shifts there are.
And that's what we'll be monitoring.
Our next question is from Christina McGlone-Hahn from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim I understood what you were saying about the calendar fourth quarter but I don't really understand what happened then as we came into January why margins are so bad.
And if the cattle -- if you've been running short slaughter schedules and the cattle are there then why is it so tight? And why are margins so bad right now? And then won't heifer retention just make the situation worse in '12? Let me answer the back half of that question first which heifer retention or the fed steer heifer supply those decisions were made quite a bit earlier than -- those cattle are in the feedlot not out in the field as replacement heifers.
So we were watching that.
That didn't show a major shift in the last 6 months.
We're seeing a shift in the animals killed the last 6 months but not the animals placed.
Now why did margins get so out of whack in January? Again we came through tighter margins pulled back supplies through the November-December period and a very high choice cutout that quickly corrected which set all through the acnodes [ph] period a higher cattle cost that was built on the premise that the choice select spread was higher.
That also drove up the average cost of all cattle.
And again the mandatory price reporting groups don't always reflect the true value differences in cattle.
So simply said the overall cattle costs were higher than the revenue bear-ed and -- or warranted throughout that whole time frame.
And when we came through the first couple weeks of January the kill came back up and it appears that we all missed the revenue.
We missed it.
It declined a lot faster and all of a sudden cattle went up.
In 1 week the revenue declined and the cattle costs went up.
And now we're starting to fight through how to get that back in line.
But again the promising component to me is we're coming through.
We're building up cattle.
We're not short supplies out front and we'll just have to watch what the revenue will bear.
And we did see the choice select spread quickly compress back down into the $4 to $5 zone -- $4 to $5 a hundredweight zone.
So when you have that margin compression like we had it takes a couple of weeks' lag time for it to correct that.
And we've got our kills way pulled back in an effort to manage margins.
So hopefully that gives you a little more explanation on that.
Research Division</strong> No that's really helpful.
I mean I guess just my follow-up is what do you think in terms of beef prices if you look at the scenario that Donnie laid out with meat availability? It should augur for higher beef prices but yet it seems to hit a wall on the choice maybe at around 195 or a little bit lower than that.
Do you think that demand just stops there? Or will we eventually get above that level? Because you need it well above 200 for people in the chain to make money.
Well as I said in my comments and a couple of times in the end we're trying to forecast what we think the revenue will be and buy cattle accordingly.
In the end what happens on wholesale prices is if meat's clearing the system and there is more -- the pipeline is empty prices go up and vice versa.
And I know most analysts and charts I've seen have shown some pretty strong resistance on a choice cutout of 195.
So we'll have to see.
A lot of that depends upon domestic availability and what the domestic and the export disappearance are looking like.
So right now it looks like there's been some price resistance keeping in mind that all through '09 '10 and '11 we raised prices substantially.
Our next question is from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question would just be -- I appreciate all the detail on beef and you obviously have a lot of conviction in your outlook.
But if it's 2 or 3 or 4 quarters from now and things came in differently than you expected when you guys sit around and do your plan what are you worried about could happen that could make your beef forecast not correct? Well we had a long list of things that I was worried about and that's what we try to anticipate a variety of different scenarios relative to how we're managing our forward sales our pricing risk our buying strategies.
And we're looking at the big picture.
That's why we spend a lot of time looking at the real supply chain drivers and the lag times that are out there.
But as I've pointed out we've seen this 0.5% to 1% decline in the calf crop.
The biggest thing that bothered me was simply that the beef cow inventory dropped fairly quick.
The beef cow slaughter numbers didn't -- were only up 175 000 the last 12 months yet the overall cow number dropped 967 000.
So we'll feel that in 2012's calf crop which will be 2014's fed steer and heifer supply.
So -- and we got plenty of time to look at adjustments and how that influences the overall psychology of the market and the overall supply chain.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at beef Feb and March tend to be the weakest demand months for beef.
Feb and March tend to be sort of the calendar weakest demand periods for beef.
So as you're trying to push up prices seasonally that's going be tough.
Do you anticipate you can get the margin turnaround in time to report a positive beef number in the March quarter on the operating line? We started January as you know with a tougher scenario and again that's the whole component.
We're not projecting robust beef prices in this time frame.
And so again in this business the key is that the raw material costs that we have to get them down to what the revenue will warrant.
And that's the push that's going on.
And we do that the way we manage the volume we have every week.
So we pull back volume try to shore up pricing and decrease demand for fed cattle.
And that's the way the business works and always has worked.
Research Division</strong> So if you had to kind of think how long that's going to take is that going to be sort of a 2-month process 2-week process? Is it going to be like June July? I envision -- we have that extreme margin compression in a 1-week period.
And I always like to think we can get it back in the same time frame but it usually doesn't work that way.
It's definitely not out over 2 months.
So we again have our hours pulled way back and trying to hold pricing get pricing increases and be very selective in our procurement strategies.
Our next question is from Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Just looking at another protein.
The chicken markets specifically seem to be lagging a little here to start the year only in breast.
Meat wings and leg part is obviously doing very well.
But I'm a bit curious with this discounting that's happening in the current market and what you think might be driving that.
And whether or not it has any significant implications for what you seem to lay out as a pretty good scenario as we head into the spring and summer and more seasonally strong demand.
I'm just curious what could be behind that? Sure Christine.
Breast meat pricing is a bit of a two-edged sword for us.
Let me try to explain that.
When we build our supply plan we make sure we balance on whole bird increments and then build in the flexibility to buy some parts as we need them rather than grow a whole bird when we would only have a good sale for part of the bird.
For example in your scenario we wouldn't necessarily want to grow a bird for wings and leg quarters and not have a good sale for the rest.
So what we do is we balance on a whole bird basis and that gives us the flexibility to buy breast meat when the breast meat market is soft.
And then of course when the whole bird revenue model indicates that margins are appropriate we can grow the bird.
So on the buy side we're currently able to take advantage of these weaker prices.
Now of course that sword cuts both ways.
And the weaker breast meat markets have somewhat of an opposing impact on our finished product sales.
But our model differs from commodity models in that across our total portfolio of sales we experienced more financial impact from changes in dark meat and whole bird prices than we do with breast meat prices.
Now that of course is in large part due to the stabilizing effect of our greater proportion of value-added sales which again affirms our strategy of continuing to accelerate growth of our value-added business.
All right.
Then just as a follow-up to that as you look at your export business are you still pretty optimistic that we'll maintain these kind of levels based on kind of the short protein supplies that you're seeing in global markets? Christine there's always intervals at times when pricings are soft pricing is softer or stronger.
But in general yes for the rest of our year we're optimistic about export demand for poultry and feel like that portion of our sales will be favorable for us.
Our next question is from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about pork? The margins there were much better than I was looking for versus sort of what we track internally on the cutout.
Could you talk about what happened there? I know you're guiding for that to be above your normalized range in the back half of the year but to what extent are exports -- are you benefiting from the exports directly? And just kind of frame what we should expect on pork for the year.
The overall benefit on the export obviously is the domestic disappearance and it drove -- that it contributed to drive up wholesale prices because we had a very strong year.
We get our fair share and slightly above on the export market and we try to work very hard at promoting U.S.
pork abroad as do a number of our competitors.
And so we're really -- as we manage through our margin we're paying very close attention to what we think the forward export disappearance looks like how that fits into the domestic demand and really trying to maximize the revenue for the whole.
And again our business we really just put a lot of focus on managing the mix managing the yields managing the quality customer service and staying very close to the market and working through that process.
But I do think exports in pork will continue be very strong throughout this fiscal year and I don't see a major drop-off.
I'm hopeful we'll continue to see an increase as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's not what the USDA is predicting.
So what you're seeing right now in the current market exports are still robust.
USDA I noticed was predicting down but I don't see any major shift other than perhaps in Korea.
But I do see other parts of the world picking it up.
And our next question is from Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just -- I was curious in terms of your outlook for chicken prices this year I guess in response to Christine's question it doesn't sound like you're that bullish on breast meat.
You're trying to balancing your model there.
But also I'm just surprised to see -- when you look at some of the national restaurant accounts talking about their pricing I mean Darden said it's going to be down in calendar 2012.
I think Wendy's announced that they only expect a 5% increase in chicken prices.
So I guess how does that square with you guys getting to normalized margins in the back half of the year? Okay Ron while I can't comment on what others might be saying about pricing I can comment on what we're experiencing.
And during this round of pricing which really is the fall and early winter we were able to secure higher pricing.
And in general when we were forced to lock in a price for a period of time out front we were able to build in some kind of relief mechanism whether that be a grain collar or whatever.
So we feel comfortable about our value-added mix and the opportunities that that gives us to insulate ourselves a little bit from the commodity swings in the market pricing.
We get paid for the value that we add to our customers' business.
And our quality our service our innovative capabilities are really industry-leading.
And we are building great customer loyalty and we're getting paid for that.
So I think that's why maybe we sound confident because we are.
Because we feel very comfortable that in concentrating on a customer and adding value to their business that in turn will add value to our business and our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess what would be the biggest risk then for you guys getting to that target in the back half of the year? I probably would have to say grain although I could tell you in the current range we think grain is kind of trading in the upper end of its value range now.
And you got to remember you're probably facing probably a 95-million-acre planted crop coming in front of us and that's going to be kind of a heavy weight on old crop prices.
So I think that is a bit muted.
And then we just got to continue to remain focused on providing the innovation and the market solutions that our customers need and continue to help them grow their business and get through some of these difficult times.
And we'll get rewarded with that with more business and getting paid for the value we add.
Our next question is from Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> The -- Jim the pork margins have just been so surprisingly good for so long and I know you increased the target range recently.
But maybe you can give us your thoughts on why in that particular protein with supply up a little bit we just seem to continue to sustain much better margins as opposed to chicken that -- where supply is tightening.
And just maybe for Donnie as a follow-up too.
Just this sort of more holistic approach that you've espoused before where the world's going be tight on protein.
And not clear whether you're going to make your money in this one or that one but overall the world is going to be tight on protein and that will firm up margins.
Can you kind of touch on that point again Donnie? Yes let me jump in there first and then I'll let Jim obviously talk about pork.
But yes very much our multi-protein multi-channel multinational strategy is we think very important.
I mean our model is going to be very successful.
As we look around the world as global demand for protein increases it gives us great opportunity internationally to grow those businesses and we're off to a good start.
Those are somewhat fledgling businesses but have a very bright future in front of them.
And then domestically I think the beauty of our model is not every protein has to be just perfect all the time for us to deliver great value for our customers and our shareholders.
So what we do is we look to operate every segment of our business absolutely the most efficiently -- certainly as we can.
And our objective is always to be the industry leaders in every single segment.
And we have made remarkable progress I think in the last 3 years towards getting there.
And so if a segment maybe at the current moment like Beef might be a little bit out of favor the good news about our business is we've got a great Chicken business we've got a great Prepared Foods business operating at the top end of its range.
The pricing environment has improved.
There's raw material prices have stabilized a little bit.
Jim mentioned our growth in our Wright Brand business and our ability to make that brand extensible into other categories.
And those are all the things we're working on to continue to deliver this balanced approach to our customers and help them find the solutions they need.
So that's my part.
Jim? Just real briefly on pork.
I mean the big answer is we saw the quantities decreased from '08 down into '10 '11 '12.
And the whole pork complex is in a reasonably good balance with export domestic and supplies.
And we've always had plants in very good locations.
We're very efficient.
We know how to manage the mix.
We know how to work through our overall yield our overall quality issues and stay focused on that.
And so there's a good balance in the industry but -- and we really understand the details.
I mean that's why it's worked very well.
Our next question is from Heather Jones with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on Tyson specifically on its Pork and Beef businesses.
For some time you all have been able to generate pretty large outperformance relative to the industry in both of those segments.
And in Q4 that outperformance seemed to narrow pretty significantly.
But in this quarter it widened considerably.
And so I guess going forward I'm just trying to get a sense of how should we think about this outperformance? Like on an absolute magnitude basis do you think you can maintain the outperformance this quarter? Or is it going to fluctuate significantly? I just -- if you could give us some color on what you're foreseeing going forward.
This is Jim.
I'm not sure really how to answer that other than we really focus on the details and what the forward revenues what the demands are going forward and really try to match what we think we're going to run from a supply standpoint and really what we think the raw material or the commodity warrants from a price standpoint.
There will be quarter-over-quarter where certain things shipment [ph] adjustments.
But we got very good teams that really are very experienced and we've put a lot of good CapEx on our plants and we stay very efficient.
And our plants -- keep in mind our beef plants are located in very good states where there's very good supplies of fed cattle and same thing in our pork plants.
So we have some good location advantages which has been a long-term strategy from years ago.
Research Division</strong> So you don't anticipate anything that should change your performance relative to the industry from Q1.
No I don't.
Our next question is from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to focus on chicken because I think we've talked about beef enough.
So can you help me understand sort of sequentially a couple of moving parts? One is the revenue line and the other is costs.
I mean costs were up seems like $0.10 a pound $220 million.
Would love to know what your projection is on costs as we sit here today.
So maybe you can answer that first.
And my guess is sequentially you're not going to see as much of a drag from higher feed costs.
But what is your projection for the year? And how far are you hedged? Okay.
Akshay the overwhelming majority of the cost increase was grain.
Now quarter-over-quarter if you'll remember last Q1 we had a fairly significant increase in hedging for the quarter and this quarter we were pretty much flat and with a very very minimal hedging line I think $3 million or something like that.
So the overwhelming majority of the increased cost in chicken is in the grain.
Now offsetting that is our increases in price; improvement in our mix in other words selling more value-added items; and then continuing in cost efficiencies.
I think we mentioned last quarter that we anticipate another $125 million or so in cost efficiencies for this year.
And in Q1 we delivered something on the order of just shy of $25 million of that.
So as you look forward our pricing -- as you can see in this last quarter our pricing was better and we feel like that will continue.
I agree with you that the year-over-year increases in feed costs are likely to stabilize.
And so it's a matter of continuing to improve our mix continuing to grow our value-added sales continuing to drive operational efficiencies and that will in turn continue to drive good margins and give us that opportunity in the back half of our year to get our Chicken business back into its normalized range.
Research Division</strong> But what's the -- how much of your grain cost -- feed and grain cost which you said were up $220 million in 1Q what is the order of magnitude for the year? Last year I think they were up 500.
So my guess is we're going to see a major drop-off starting this quarter.
No.
Actually the comparison will -- and hey what we're using is current basis levels current futures prices versus a year ago.
So just taking the forward curve on futures and basis today and projecting that out for the rest of the year.
The impact for our year is an incremental couple of hundred million dollars which is frankly what you saw in Q1.
So for the balance of our year we really see that impact flat.
We don't have projected in a decrease in feed costs because remember for the 4 quarters which would end in September the last of those grain purchases are made in July.
And so it takes about 8 weeks from the time you ship a train of grain to our feed mills for that to work its way through our cost of goods.
So just kind of keep a mental picture that we buy grain through the end of July to secure our cost all the way through Q4.
And by the end of July we have no way to predict at this point what the grain situation is going to look like.
Will it be dry or what have you? There's just no way to tell.
So we just take the forward curve and projected forward basis levels are really high right now.
Railroads are still charging significant fuel surcharges in the freight rates.
So the delivery basis of corn is still really high.
So factor all that in the year-over-year change we think is going to be about $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the revenue side can you help -- I mean the revenue per pound realized in my estimation was up double digits this quarter which was just truly exceptional.
Can you -- on a year-over-year basis I mean is it going to come even close to that? Because if it does I mean it looks like to me you could be at the high end of your normalized range if you're going to get 10% increases in revenue per pound which is what you got in 1Q for chicken.
Okay.
So there is some portion although a relatively small portion of our business that is susceptible to the commodity market pricing.
So I can't with all certainty tell you what our revenue component is going to look like.
I can tell you though that we are getting paid for the value we add.
We feel good about our ability to add the value that we need to to our customers' business to get paid for what we do for them and the solutions we provide them.
So I feel good about the revenue.
I can't necessarily call it.
But I can tell you we have been able to secure higher prices and we feel good about our opportunity to continue to do that because of the way we're delivering for our customers for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Sequentially if spot market prices improve which is -- there's a lot of industry observers who believe that will happen.
So spot revenue per pound improves from now until the summer sequentially your revenue per pound realized should also trend that way correct? Yes sure.
Yes.
Our next question is from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jim I was hoping that you could just go back to some of the comments in your prepared remarks about how the beef industry is likely to have to change around some of the dynamics you're seeing in supply pipeline given shorter cattle supplies down the road.
Just maybe you can expand a little bit on how you think the industry might look in 2 3 4 years down the road.
Sure I will.
The alarming number -- and I was watching very carefully with the drought that we experienced last year what the impact to the supply the base of the supply chain being the beef cow herd would do.
And again if you're watching beef cow slaughter numbers you thought well will decrease about 175 000 over the last 12 months.
But then all of a sudden we saw this big decline of 967 000 down to a 29.9.
And you saw Oklahoma and Texas cow numbers decrease.
Now a lot of people think that those states then will have some issues relative to availability of the cattle.
Keep in mind the cattle are fed still in feedlots that are close to the grain with good weather good water and a good environment.
And so we won't see -- we'll continue to see competitive feedlot source feeder cattle and that's where our plants are located.
And if you look at the feedlot placements and when it was all said and done with the total number you saw that the upper mid-east region was down considerably.
And Texas was up 104.
I think Kansas was flat.
Nebraska was up.
So where I'm headed with this is the competitive feedlots will continue to feed cattle and the plants located close to those will continue to have good sources.
And that's where again we sit in a pretty good relationship to cattle on feed and where the cattle will be available.
But long term that cattle decline will have a structural change on both the feeding industry likely and the packing industry.
Research Division</strong> And then just also as a follow-up.
Hoping maybe you guys could shed a little bit of light on some of the trade issues in the chicken industry that are currently in the press with respect to Mexico.
Do you see any issues arising with the challenges to chicken exports? It's too soon to tell.
Obviously we're engaged.
Our D.C.
office is actively engaged in those conversations.
But it's too soon to tell.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe help us frame what's at risk here? I really can't.
I mean obviously Mexico does buy chicken from the U.S.
and an anti-dumping duty would hurt the margin on that.
I could tell you from our standpoint our export sales I'm going to call it customer portfolio mix has changed fairly dramatically over the last 12 months.
And we're not overly dependent on any one particular market for margin in our export sales.
I mean we've done a great job of diversifying our portfolio.
So it may have an impact.
I think the impact on our business would -- certainly there would likely be one but I don't want to overplay its magnitude.
Our next question is from Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Just a couple of questions.
I know everyone's been talking about beef.
I just have a couple of really quick ones.
One is are you guys actually capturing cattle or getting cattle outside of your typical range of where you normally get it? I guess it's my first question.
My second one is over the next 10 to 20 months does capacity actually need to come out from the packer industry in order to restore margins given -- again I know you're saying it's a slow cattle decline but I'm assuming over time though that something has to change in the industry.
And then third is I mean you guys say you're in a soft spat -- spot.
What does that actually mean? I didn't follow the third part.
Well when you say you're in a soft patch for beef packing margins do you actually lose money? Are you still making money? Are you profitable? I guess just kind of magnitude of what we're actually seeing.
That's what I just want to know.
But that's actually the least of the 3 important questions.
To answer your first question.
Are we going outside our region? No.
To answer your second question again fiscal '12 is interesting going forward.
I don't see that we're going be deficit cattle particularly after we and the industry looking at the industry number in the Q1 period process the 3.6% fewer cattle.
We processed 4% fewer cattle year-over-year in that quarter.
And then in January the industry's kills have been way pulled back.
So we got to be pushing them forward because they are in the pipeline.
Now when you go out beyond that again the key number I watch is the calf crop projected out for 2 years and then try to factor in what we think heifer retention is going to be.
So do I think the industry is in overcapacity? It's been there before.
And looking at the long range out a couple of years with the implied 2012 this calf crop this spring I'm guessing we'll start to see some adjustments.
So you guys are not...
And the third question yes this was a rough patch and I've explained that a number of times.
That 1 week when revenues dropped and cattle costs went up the spread got way out of whack and it can get messed up like that in a week.
And it takes some time 2 to 3 weeks or more to get it back in line.
Are you currently in a rough patch? Or are you out of the rough patch? We're currently in a rough patch.
Okay currently.
And then is there...
Oh I'm starting to hear that.
That will be our new technical term.
How is that? Yes I'm not sure exactly how to model it.
I was just going to put "RP" [ph] on it I guess.
But in terms of the -- do you think the industry right now -- you don't think the industry is overkill and you think right now the -- like are you guys running 40 hours a week? Is the industry running 40 hours per week? Can you just talk about what people are actually -- what the industry is actually doing on an hourly basis right now? It seems like again from people that I know it seems like there is a potential that the facilities are being run a little bit harder than they should be.
We have not run 40 hours.
We've been between 32 and 36 in every plant throughout the year here through January.
But I just looked at the fed steer and heifer kills the last 5 weeks which I watch very closely: 429 the first week 493 the second week 484 472 and 471 projected for this week.
Now that's a good 20 000 to 25 000 lower than a year ago.
So the industry is clearly not running anywhere close based on that.
I know what we're running and I can look at that inference and get pretty close.
But the industry's running considerably less than 40s and probably considerably less than 36s.
And again you're looking at that additively.
Those cattle will have to get -- at some point get processed.
So again just really watching the acute numbers and what's going on week-to-week which is how you really manage these businesses.
You don't think capacity over the next 10 to 20 months has to come out of the industry.
You don't think anybody is going to close down or anything is going to change structurally like what you guys did in what is it end of '08 or '09 where you guys actually closed down a facility.
You don't think something like that has to happen over the next 10 to 20 months for a restoration of normalized margins.
I can't comment on what our competitors because that decision really gets to is your plant competitive in the region from a revenue cost size scale mix standpoint? And there's a lot of variables.
The ones we shut down were knocked -- in '06 and '08 weren't competitive in the regions and they weren't competitive within our structures.
And so that really becomes a key component that you have to look at.
And again looking at the macro play which I've covered a number of times I'm just really watching the numbers going forward.
In the next few months it doesn't appear so but I -- if I had a noncompetitive plant I'd be looking at it.
I mean that's all I can say.
We're looking at our competition and what -- excuse me our plants from a competitive standpoint on a continuous basis.
Our next question is from Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering given the challenges that we've obviously been talking about in the Beef segment is there any need to adjust production in the Chicken segment in order to make sure that remains profitable and hits that low end of the long-term targeted margin range? Speaking for ourselves we have a pretty good taste of what oversupply looks like and certainly we will pause before we risk returning to an oversupply situation.
But we really like where we stand.
Our supply and demand is very well balanced.
We have an opportunity at times to take advantage of buying the parts we might need.
So I could tell you that currently our forecasted demand and our supply plan does not need adjustment.
But we look at that constantly and we will make adjustments as needed.
Our next question is from Rob Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is have you seen any signs that this plant by Northern Beef is going to open in Aberdeen South Dakota or not? And then secondly an international question for Donnie.
How much capital have you put into China and Brazil over the years? I'm coming up with a number of about $400 million.
And I want to know if I'm close.
And when do you think you could get like that 15% kind of return on capital that you said that you've been doing for the rest of the business? I mean yes I know that plant in Aberdeen is in some phase of construction.
I've not been tuned in to what the projected opening date or startup looks like.
I have no idea.
I just know it's being built.
Rob on the capital piece you're really really close.
I mean that's -- you're all over the number.
And I would tell you on the return I figure 2 or 3 years or so we should be at that point.
And our Jiangsu plant has started up.
The ramp-up is on target.
We feel very good about our model.
We feel very good about our customer mix in China who we will be serving and the product portfolio that we will be serving them with.
We're doing a good job so far in getting our production supply chain built out like we want to.
So it's going to take some time but we think 2 or 3 years out we're there.
Our next question is from Farooq Hamed with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you.
I just wanted to walk back through the pork exports expectation and maybe if you can walk us through -- you made a comment that -- I guess that 2012 they're going keep pace with 2011 export levels.
And I'm just wondering how you get there or if you can walk us through the different major regions where you think that the exports will hold pace just because we had significant disease issues in Korea and China last year.
I'm just wondering could we still see the same export levels this year? And how we get there? Well that's a good question.
But I'm just really looking.
And when I referenced I'm talking our fiscal year and sometimes people get misaligned a bit because they'll look at the calendar year which a lot of the other data.
But October and November were up 40% year-over-year.
So that -- we still saw that strong strength.
Now I do think Korea might adjust.
But keep in mind there's a big long lag phase once you have herd reduction to correct a disease problem like they had.
You can't fill that pipeline.
In the case of hogs that's a 19-month recycle.
That's why I'm saying it.
It's the same thing in China where they had to correct some -- or are doing some liquidation to control some diseases.
So that's why -- where I'm at.
And a lot of people think you can turn that production cycle back on that quick.
But when you just look at it it's a 19-month to see an increase.
And then I'm seeing the residual carryover in October and November numbers that are still very strong.
Now do I think they're -- so I'm not pessimistic that we're going to see a decline at all.
I'm optimistic that we'll see a gradual incline because those numbers -- those supplies can't be replenished that fast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But then I guess looking at the 2011 and then maybe the 2012 export levels longer term or bigger picture would we see that as kind of being the peak for pork exports in this industry and then maybe 2013 onwards we're going to start to see some declines as those herds catch up? I had a really great crystal ball because it's being managed in the business.
But the reality is that the U.S.
is still a very competitive place to produce pork and if the dollar and the relativity the global protein supplies -- or demand continues to increase and outstrip the ability of the supply chain to catch up.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Donnie and one for Jim if I can.
Donnie how happy are you with the Tyson brand's ability? Obviously it's a great brand but its ability to succeed across the entire packaged meats aisle in the supermarket.
And the reason I'm asking is you have a lot of cash in the balance sheet.
There may be some attractive assets coming to market that neatly kind of complement what you do.
And I know you can't discuss anything in particular.
I'd really just be interested in your thoughts on your current portfolio's ability to play and win say in retail breakfast meats lunchmeats things like that.
That's actually a great question.
We have a tremendous amount of confidence in the Tyson brand and its brand promise and our ability to deliver on its brand promise.
Now we also have a stable of other regional and national brands that have a brand promise.
For example Jim in his remarks talked about Wright Brand.
Wright Brand has really grown in acceptance.
He mentioned 10 000 points of distribution last year.
That's amazing.
And so that brand delivers very well on its brand promise consistently over and over again.
So I would not want you to think that we would only use the Tyson brand or the Tyson logo to extend across the meat category.
But certainly you can tell from our comments that having a broad diverse portfolio of products is very important to our strategy.
Now I think -- and I'm going to add a little bit.
Maybe it was in the question maybe not but over the last couple of years we've done a great job of strengthening our balance sheet and our balance sheet gives us the flexibility.
We use the term around here "optionality " to be able to buy or to build.
And so we have the opportunity to look at any channel any category any type of product grouping and decide whether or not we want to build our current assets and then build through that particular category that way or whether or not we want to buy that -- buy a business that might fill that gap.
So I like having those options.
It gives us an ability to keep our return on invested capital forefront as we grow our business.
And certainly both of those are very important to our strategy to both grow our business and to keep an acceptable return on invested capital.
Research Division</strong> And then Jim you mentioned you're pulling back somewhat on your hours in beef packing.
Have you thought about the possibility of maybe going the other way? That is running your plants even faster to temporarily drive margins down and force a competitor to shut a plant more quickly.
Or is that just way too risky a strategy? I realize it's easy for us on this side to think about that.
It's a lot harder to actually pull the trigger and it may not even be the right strategy long-term.
I'm just curious how you think about that.
The simplest answer to that no.
We really try to manage.
Over a long run you got to manage margins.
You work on again your sales mix your forward sell your customer your premium programs and then you really try to project what the revenues are going to be and what the raw material costs warrants basis that revenue projection.
We manage our own business.
We don't have a market play in that whole scheme.
So I should have just stopped with no but I gave you a little more color.
Our next question is from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Jim do you have any -- is there -- do you think we might get a few cattle coming across the border with the Wheat Board decision this summer? Or is it too early to tell what's going to happen there? The economics I think that changes the dynamic.
That's a really good question because we really watch these feeder cattle import numbers and they supplement that and have been in the pipeline.
In recent years the Canadian number has declined.
And so as the Wheat Board decision changes the dynamics of feed wheat availability and the competitiveness of feedlot in Canada versus the U.S.
it may.
I don't know.
It will depend upon what that front-end economics at the point in time the calves and the cost of gains versus what the deferred futures are looking like in the revenue.
But it changes the dynamic.
That's very worth watching.
Research Division</strong> Well -- and just as a second point on that just given where your plants are if we do see more cattle coming from Canada would you say you're better positioned than the rest of the industry because most of your plants are in the North? Well that will be where the feeder cattle -- I'm guessing it would be a greater -- the issue will be will there be more imported feeder cattle? And Washington state as one example was up appreciably which we have a plant in Washington.
And those cattle would be a lower delivery cost to the upper Midwest from a feeding standpoint.
So it would be favorable.
Our next question is from Christina McGlone-Hahn with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly Jim I wanted to confirm that your outlook for pork is still -- you said it's still above normalized because recently margins have really narrowed particularly since the fall.
And we're showing at times negative on a spot basis.
But you still think you can do above -- not only better than the industry but above normalized.
Well I think what I said was I didn't think we'd be permanently as strong as Q1.
But yes we expect to be above normalized.
Again I don't see a major shift in that fundamental at all going on.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get some more color on Prepared Foods.
That segment performed extremely well.
Is it packaged meats? Is it tortillas? Is it pricing capacity utilization? And in terms of normalized do you expect that segment to perform at the higher end of normalized as it was this quarter? Or kind of mid to lower? Just some more color on that would be helpful.
Farha your answer is yes.
It is a factor of all of those.
The great thing about our Prepared Foods business is that it is so diversified.
Our tortilla business is doing very well.
Great business in pizza toppings.
I would tell you maybe a weaker part of that segment has been our lunchmeat results.
But I'll tell you we've got a great team around that business.
They have absolutely anchored themselves in the fundamentals of the business and are making very very rapid progress.
So we think there's a segment within the segment that has not been performing that will continue to improve and perform ever -- even better which makes us feel even more positive about our Prepared Foods segment.
So it's coming in all forms.
Our mix has improved.
We've changed our selling strategies.
Our food business has improved.
We've -- of course for a lot of that business the raw material is beef and pork.
And as raw material prices have stabilized that's allowed some of the lagging pricing mechanisms that we have to catch up.
And certainly that's improved.
So it really is a combination of multiple things.
But I guess the bottom line to that whole business is a great diversified portfolio being run very well by an extremely competent team meets tremendous customer needs.
And we feel very positive about our results in that segment.
Our final question today is from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on chicken.
Just Donnie if I understand it correctly so you had a $220-million increase in feed costs.
Sequentially you won't have that going forward.
So that's about an 8% margin impact right on your sales.
So my understanding is going forward the cost side is getting better sequentially.
And on the revenue side I have a question for you which is if I say breast prices are going to be at $1.85 in the summer and leg quarters remain at $0.50 and the whole bird price goes into the mid-90s is there any reason to believe then that Tyson would not be at the high end of normalized range by the end of the -- by the summer? Or am I missing something in the mix or fixed price contracts or something like that? No you're right on your market prices.
We feel great.
Akshay one thing on your cost model.
Think stabilized not improving.
So listen we have to run but thanks for joining us today and obviously for your continued interest in and your support of our company.
We've got to head off to the shareholders' meeting right now.
So we just hope you all have a great day.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Ms.
Ruth Ann Wisener.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods Conference Call for the First Quarter of our 2011 Fiscal Year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
To ensure we get to as many of your questions as possible please limit yourself to only one question and then get back in the queue for additional questions.
Be aware that our executives need to get to our shareholders meeting later this morning so we cannot continue much past 9:00 Central.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Ruth Ann and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
If you read our press release this morning you saw that we set a record in our first quarter of the fiscal year with GAAP earnings of $0.78 a share or $0.75 on an adjusted basis.
Net sales were $7.6 billion which is about $1 billion more than the first quarter last year.
Operating income was $498 million with a 6 1/2% return on sales volume was up 4 1/2% while prices were up almost 10%.
Our Chicken and Beef segments performed within their normalized operating margin ranges.
The Pork segment was well above its normalized range and Prepared Foods was just under its range and is making steady progress.
In our press release you'll see that we had a $51 million benefit from our grain and energy risk management activities.
This included $23 million of mark-to-market gains on positions that were still open at the end of the quarter.
As I've mentioned before we have a very conservative risk management approach and we view these activities as a normal part of running our business.
And I'd like to point out even without the mark-to-market gains our Chicken segment would have been well within its normalized range.
To give you a quick update on our international operations Mexico had a great quarter.
Our startups in China and Brazil are showing improvement although there is still a significant amount of work to be done.
India is still doing a great job and demand for our brands in India is strong.
Now I'd like to turn our attention to our view of protein demand for the rest of the year beginning with retail.
Albeit low consumer confidence remains at or about the same index as a year ago.
Consumers assessment of the economy and the labor market remains somewhat cautious.
Now there are signs that the economic recovery will continue into 2011 but the pace of growth remains slow.
With USDA calling for 2% to 3% food cost increases and forecasts calling for gasoline prices to continue to rise we believe consumers will continue their cautious stand and volume at retail will remain flat versus 2010.
Turning to Food Service.
Food Service sales forecasts were recently adjusted up very slightly due to a more positive picture about food service restaurants and the college and university sales as well as higher than originally forecasted inflation and menu prices of about 2 1/2%.
Remember these are Food Service sales increases and not volume increases.
We still believe that there will be little if any real volume growth this year in Food Service due to continued elevated levels of unemployment and underemployment and consumers lack of confidence about their personal finances and home equity values.
Our study of popular industry data services leads us to conclude that we are not likely to see meaningful real volume growth for the industry until 2012.
Now having said all that my overall view of our business is good.
I've been hearing some people out there saying that 2011 is starting to look a lot like 2008.
Now prices for grain and gas are high but the similarities end there at least for Tyson Foods.
First of all our Chicken business is in significantly better shape having produced approximately $600 million in performance improvements over the last three years.
This includes yield mix live production improvements additional processing flexibility less product moving between plants.
Our execution is better.
We're more efficient.
Our cost structure is much much better.
And we're on track in executing the plans we discussed last quarter.
Now Jim will add more detail on what to expect for 2011 in his comments.
Our Beef and Pork businesses are extremely competitive.
We reduced debt and interest expense by a sizable amount which gives us a very strong balance sheet.
Our organization as a whole is in better alignment.
Our Team Members have more clarity around what they need to do and they are focused on getting it done.
I'm very pleased with our performance and I think it will be another great year.
As long as we stay focused on the fundamentals and keep executing I think you'll like the results.
Now we're now well into our second quarter which is typically the most challenging.
As we mentioned last quarter we expect Chicken to remain profitable.
We are up to this point and we should continue through quarters end and the remainder of the fiscal year.
In Chicken none of the remaining three quarters will produce numbers we necessarily like but they should all be in the black.
Beef and Pork are doing very well.
Prepared Foods is continuing to improve.
All that should add up to a strong year overall.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a review of our segment results followed by Dennis and the financial report.
Thanks Donnie.
The Pork segment had another outstanding quarter posting 14.3% return on sales and an operating income of $177 million.
This compares to 9.9% and $125 million in our previous quarter and 6.5% and $62 million in the same quarter last year.
Volume was up 5.8% over Q1 2010 partially due to increased hog weights while price per pound was up 23 1/2%.
I'm very pleased with the work our Pork team is doing as they continue to focus on revenue cost management and customer service.
The Chicken segment performed near the top of its normalized range in Q1 with a 6.9% return on sales and $181 million in operating income.
This compares to 6.5% and $170 million in the previous quarter when adjusted for the goodwill impairment of our Brazilian poultry operations.
It also compares favorably to the 3.2% return on sales and $78 million in operating income posted in the same quarter last year.
I know you're aware of how grain is impacting the cost of goods.
And until industry supply more closely aligns with demand our market-based Chicken businesses will be challenged.
Fortunately we have a diverse business that includes customers in retail quick service restaurants and food service distributors.
We serve international customers through both exports and in-country production.
We will offer products ranging from the most value-added chicken down to a basic whole bird.
And we sell these products through a variety of pricing arrangements with our customers.
Our inventories are at target levels.
We have improved our operational efficiencies and optimized our product mix by investing capital in our businesses and focusing on execution.
And we will continue investing in our business.
We expect to achieve $200 million in operational efficiencies this year in addition to the $600 million achieved over the past three years.
So despite market challenges we believe our Chicken segment will be profitable for the rest of the year.
Turning to the Beef segment.
We've produced a 3.6% return on sales with $116 million in operating income in the first quarter.
This compares to 4% and $121 million in the previous quarter and 4.4% and $119 million in the first quarter last year.
Volume was roughly flat while prices were up 16.4% versus Q1 2010.
I think there's still a widely held belief that our Beef and Pork profitability isn't sustainable.
I want to again explain why we don't believe that's true.
If we look at supply current cattle and hog production levels can't change much in 2011 because of the limits of the animal's life cycle.
However there's an ample supply in the regions our plants operate.
Our plants are located near the fed cattle and hogs and we closed the ones that weren't.
Beef imports are down with no significant growth forecasted.
Our Beef and Pork exports and pricing remained very strong in the last quarter.
Our plants and management teams are running very efficiently with experienced team members.
We're projecting our Beef segment will be within its normalized range for the year.
And although we don't expect the Pork segment to maintain Q1 levels it should be well above its range.
Moving onto the Prepared Foods segment.
Return on sales was 3 1/2% with $28 million in operating income compared to 1.3% and $10 million in the previous quarter and 7.7% and $55 million in Q1 last year.
Although it came in slightly under the normalized range Prepared Foods made up a lot of ground after facing raw material price volatility early in the quarter.
We still have work to do to get some of the businesses within Prepared Foods where they need to be but we're making progress and I think the segment will be within the normalized range for the year.
In closing I want to reiterate something Donnie said.
Tyson Foods is a much better company than it was three years ago.
We plan to keep proving it quarter after quarter especially during times of challenging market conditions.
Lastly I want to complement the entire team for their focus on being our customers go-to supplier and their continuous improvement in managing costs and operational efficiencies.
And now I'll go to Dennis for the financial report.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Our report of Q1 earnings of $0.78 per share include an $11 million gain or $0.03 per share related to the sale of an interest in an equity method investment.
Excluding this gain Q1 EPS was $0.75 per share.
Our operating cash flow was $371 million.
Net debt which includes cash of more than $1.1 billion was down to just over $1.4 billion a reduction of $132 million from Q4.
Total liquidity which includes availability under our credit facility and cash was nearly $2 billion.
Our bond buyback program showed slight progress during the first quarter as we repurchased only $31 million.
Further activity was restricted due to the ongoing higher premiums our bonds have garnered since last summer.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months was just under 26% a measure we are proud of achieving and are striving to maintain consistently over time.
Capital expenditures were $158 million for the quarter.
We have a number of excellent capital projects both carryover projects that were underway at year end and new 2011 projects that we believe will continue to enhance production and labor efficiencies yield improvements in sales mix.
Our effective tax rate for Q1 was 34% or 35.1% without the gain on sale of an interest in an equity method investment.
So here's an update on our outlook for fiscal 2011.
Revenues are expected to be around $31 billion driven largely by increased wholesale prices for Beef and Pork along with volume growth in Chicken.
We expect 2011 net interest expense will be approximately $245 million down nearly $90 million compared to fiscal 2010.
The effective tax rate should be about 35%.
Our diluted shares for the first quarter were 379 million and the dilutive effect of options and convertible bonds will fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
CapEx should be around $700 million as we continue to reinvest in our business.
And our spending will again be focused on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of our domestic operations and completing the buildout of existing foreign operations.
Depreciation and amortization will be approximately $525 million.
We will continue to use excess cash to repurchase notes when available at attractive levels as we strive to continue to get our debt back to investment grade.
We do not have any significant maturities of debt coming due until fiscal 2014 as the balance on our 8 1/4% notes due October '11 were $315 million as of January 1.
We plan to retire these notes on the last day of fiscal '11 with current cash on hand and/or cash from operations.
In summary 2011 is off to a great start.
Although we are facing challenges involving grain prices and a supply-demand imbalance in the chicken industry at this point I am confident we will come through this year strong because of our efforts to improve what we can control: our cost structure our efficiencies and helping our customers grow their businesses.
All of our segments have made great progress and we are positioned to have another great year.
Our capital structure is strong and getting even stronger.
Our credit ratios are continuing to improve.
And we firmly believe our performance is sustainable and worthy of a return to investment-grade ratings.
To the Tyson team keep growing strong keep getting better and thank you for all your hard work to put us in this position to thrive in challenging times.
With that our prepared remarks are over and I'll ask Stacy to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ryan Oksenhendler of the NY Merrill Lynch.
Could you guys talk about the export opportunities across the different proteins especially what's going on with South Korea with foot and mouth disease the German dockside issue the dispute with Mexico and the trucking issue? Is that getting closer to resolved? For chicken export demand has picked up do you see anything out of China? If you could just talk about that I'd appreciate it.
Ryan this is Jim.
I'll answer that question.
Certainly with the foot and mouth issues in Korea and others we're seeing a very strong interest upfront.
We're seeing that reflected currently in the pork prices.
As the cutout has come up we've seen that demand.
A lot of the forecasts I've seen before this crisis were projected increases in exports and I think this will be additive to it particularly in the pork complex.
But we've also seen very strong interest in beef upfront and as well in chicken because if you look at that October and November export disappearance in chicken beef and pork they were much stronger than the prior years pork maybe being in October and November the least growth.
In fact I think it was down slightly.
But certainly since then we've seen robust demand.
I'm not sure what's going on at this stage with the Mexican trucking situation.
But I don't see anything on the horizon that's going to at this point diminish any of the export demand.
Our next question comes from Jeff Farmer of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> You touched on this for the Chicken segment but can you provide some data points to help us get a little bit better understanding of the year-over-year improvement you've seen in yields labor efficiencies price realization? Really any color you can provide on that would be helpful.
I'll drill down just a little bit.
We've seen about $600 million of improvement over the last three years like we've talked about.
Now this year our forecast coming into the year based on some of the CapEx last year plus the additional CapEx we're doing this year is for about $200 million in additional operating efficiencies.
Now in Q1 we've got about a quarter of that or so and the rest we feel confident will come in the rest of the year.
And I'll tell you what on those operating efficiencies it's pretty well broken evenly among yield increases among labor efficiency line efficiency and maybe to a little bit of a lesser extent on some of our other plant spend categories.
So it really is a matter of unbottlenecking some plants adding some efficiencies into other plants being able to change to a more profitable mix in some other plants which opens up some yield opportunities for us.
So think of it as a pretty well-balanced approach of what the $200 million will accomplish.
And also I probably need to add this as well I think you'll see residual effect moving on into 2012.
This operating efficiencies as we gain those they stay with us.
And that obviously has become a pretty effective hedge against some of the market conditions.
So hopefully that's a clear enough picture for you to look at it.
And appreciate the question.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
I didn't catch if you gave a sales growth number for your Food Service division during the quarter.
Your comments are actually pretty muted and conservative about volume growth in Food Service.
And I want to know what you're seeing from your customers what are they telling you.
And is it different in different channels are you seeing different tone maybe in casual dining? Is there any hope of a rebound there? And you're right we don't typically break out sales by channel but I'll try to give you a little bit of flavor.
In terms of Food Service sales we see slight very slight uptick.
Now remember a lot of that is coming from your full service restaurant which is improving a little bit in '11 versus what it did in '10.
But most of that improvement we feel like its coming from menu pricing and that will be pricing all over the menu.
The QSRs continue to outperform full service although we have seen a rebound in full service.
I think a final comment in some of the other segments college and universities is picking up a little bit.
But there again in B&amp;I and some of the other segments in Food Service you're continuing to see weakness.
So overall in Food Service very slight increase in total sales.
We don't think that's going to drive a lot of volume in Chicken.
If you are making menu replacements for example if you are going to pull a beef menu item off and replace it with a chicken item you ran that play a couple of years ago.
So we feel like menus are where they are and it's really about when will we see increased foot traffic.
And with unemployment and underemployment where it is I just don't look for volume growth in Food Service in 2011 maybe in '12 but not in '11.
And do you have a pricing outlook for Chicken for the next six months or so? Do you think pricing can be up this year in Chicken or is it going to be kind of down? As we look at the market today there's a little more supply on the market now than what we had forecasted coming into this year.
If you look at the popularly used price forecasters for that pricing that is not already baked in.
For example if we have a fixed price contract or we have a pricing agreement that might extend for some period of time we're just using those forward projections in our models and then obviously layering that up against the cost side of the equation.
Our next question comes from Heather Jones of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
On the Chicken front just wondering if you could give us some kind of color as to the magnitude of the seasonal reduction you've continued into Q2.
I'm going to drop back into Q1 just a little bit.
In our last call we talked about -- we got a little ahead of ourselves and we're overproducing in Q1.
So we decided that we would begin some production cuts so that by the end of March our inventories would be at our targets.
And we did that that began in mid-November-ish.
Now I'll hasten on ahead our sales teams did a great job of working on our inventory problem from the sales side as well not just the production side.
If you noticed our volume was up.
These guys did a great job about selling their way as much as they could out of the production problems.
So our inventory in Q1 actually ended higher than we had planned but frankly less than we were expecting whenever we were on our last call.
So as we continue through this quarter our production cuts along with our sales curve for the quarter and we do believe that our sales will be on plan and our production cuts are exactly on target for where we thought it would be or where we plan for them to be so at the end of this quarter our inventory will be exactly at target.
And then we will continue with the production plan that weve had in place whenever we began this fiscal year.
So these are not like sustained pullbacks? No.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman JPMC.
So is pricing better than average right now in Agri Stats? Because the average chicken processor is losing a lot of money in Agri Stats right now.
So for you to be profitable this quarter you either are a much better than average processor which given all of your cuts may be the case where your hedges are a lot better than what may be known.
So I'm just curious about how to think about that.
I'm not going to argue with the premise of your question the only thing I'm going to argue with is what's driving the results.
I'm not going to give credit to grain purchasing or production cuts as a reason for improved performance.
The reason our performance is better is we're running a better business our yields are better our line efficiencies are better our labor efficiencies are better our mix is better.
So yes to where I believe we are in relationship to the industry but no as to why.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam of Stephens.
Are you seeing any pickup in chicken demand so far from the tight supplies of beef and pork either in Food Service or Retail? I really can't.
There's probably some mix shifts-- well I'll tell you this Farha we have not seen so far this year a different shift from either Food Service to Retail or back and forth.
And we really haven't so far in the year seen a meaningful shift in feature activity for example at retail or a major chicken promotions at Food Service.
But remember the time of the year you're typically not going to see that during November and December.
But now maybe a little bit later on the summer it could happen but this is not typically the time or the season for us to see that type of thing.
And then is just as a follow-up in your guidance for the year are you anticipating any production cuts or are you sort of in chicken or are you running it as the current industry stands and then if there are production cuts that would be upside to numbers? Yes I think you're right.
What we're doing is we're running to our plan.
As we forecast our forward demand we have an obligation to our customers to fulfill those orders.
And so we match our production to our demand.
Now like I've said we kind of got a little ahead of ourselves in Q1 but we've made the correction as quickly as we can to get our inventory right so that our production can get back on plan and we can continue through our year.
But we'll typically seasonally see an uptick in demand for our products.
And we got to have the production there to meet that.
So we'll be back on plan come April 1.
And just a final question in terms of Beef this Dynamic Fuels facility that you've built how is that running right now and is that adding to earnings for Tyson? Well it's started up we've some mechanical issues not related to the chemistry at all.
The chemistry works fine.
And weve just had a lot of pump failures and some other mechanical failures.
And we're hoping to get that thing up and running to its motor plant capacity.
Our next question comes from Christina McGlone of Deutsche Bank.
Donnie in the press release it talks about in the fiscal '11 outlook in terms of Chicken that in addition to operational and mix improvements you talk about pricing.
And I guess I'm confused how the industry will get pricing if there is a supply and demand imbalance because customers are well aware of that.
I'm not going to argue with you around your statement.
What I'll say is is that not all of our volume is tied or correlates to the market pricing.
Some does but we've got a very diversified product mix.
And we've got chickens in every category: small bird deboned deli food service medium birds big birds.
I mean we've got birds in every category.
And then we've got different pricing structures among each of those categories.
So that in times like this we're not just tied to what the market prices maybe throughout the year.
So I think that's our best answer.
I guess what I'm trying to say it really boils down to our mix.
So I think hopefully that'll clear up your confusion on that deal because our business model is not a pure commodity model.
And obviously you're seeing that in our performance today and you will continue to see that in our performance through the year.
Our next question comes from Tim Ramey of D.A.
Davidson.
I don't know if you ever envision the day when Pork profits would be within $4 million of Chicken in a good way but can you drill down a little bit on that? I mean as an analyst I've always taken the point of view that when prices go up you have to take the process to margins down a little bit.
And fresh gets squeezed too and this is just really confounding my view of the world.
Well I can but it would be better if Jim Lochner did.
So I'm going to let him take that question okay? Tim is your question how did we do that? Well yes.
I mean why didn't high lean hog prices hurt you as probably I and everyone else expected? First of all we are running very very good plants.
We've got a very experienced team and we're on the market buying hogs.
And so our focus is to try to maximize revenue through a combination of yields mix.
Make sure that we take care of the customer.
We are the preferred supplier where we can be and then really chase the export revenue chase the mix revenue and focus on maximizing every bit of the animal that we can get through the drop credit through the cutout through the mix.
And if you look back I mean cutout went up 26% there year-over-year and live hog costs went up about 18% or 20%.
So we did have a little bit of a natural spread happening there.
But again we've done a very good job.
That team is really focused on the detail and trying to drive all the revenues.
Our next question comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
Maybe I could ask Tim's question a different way.
So it seems as if in Beef and Hog you're seeing higher prices in both divisions but clearly Pork is just head and shoulders outperforming what historically has been the case.
So why aren't we seeing similar dynamics take place in your Beef business as you've been able to execute on Pork? This is Jim Lochner.
Actually it has.
And in that particular segment through that quarter we had actually an increase of the cutout but the live cattle cost came up at a faster rate.
You always have to remember there's a very strong correlation between revenue and live stock costs.
And a lot of times it's the slope of the change that makes the difference within the timeframe.
So if you have a inflating cutout that's growing faster the live cost or your cost of goods will trail it and then it can happen in reverse.
And it really again it comes back that your operations have to be focused on maximizing the revenue minimizing their cost chasing the highest mix and making sure that youre the preferred customer then the natural dynamics of the cutout versus the live animal costs will have some influence.
We put all of our focus on trying to again maximize the revenue from our producers standpoint because we know that relationship is going to be that strong and go back and look at those relationships over time.
And they're very very highly correlated.
So are beef processors as an industry less focused on maximizing returns and cutout values versus the pork packers right now? No not at all.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Jim this one's for you as well.
I think there's enough Chicken questions asked.
But on Beef again I just want to follow-up with the size of the herd coming down and I think the replacement heifers are down somewhere in the 5% or 6% range.
Are you concerned about the supply situation one or two years out? How are you managing your business to address that particular issue? And secondly again just do you expect -- I mean are you more positive over the next year or two years on beef or pork? Let me start by saying I'm positive on both because our team is running very very good plants.
We're very experienced and we have extremely stable workforces.
Now am I concerned? Yes over the long run.
And we've been talking about the reality is that the beef supply is declining at a fairly steady rate.
I was a little surprised to see the 5.4% decrease in replacement heifers.
They obviously are going into the fed supply over the short run so we'll have ample supplies.
But long term you'll see beef supplies keep coming down at 1% to 2% on production.
And then you've got to also factor in that imports have been down exports have been up.
In fact 2011 you're probably going to see more exports than imports which should be the first time.
So you're going to see inflating beef prices and about the same thing on pork.
A lot of the things we've been talking about the last couple of years or last couple of quarters anyhow about the domestic availability are playing out and that is a function of increased beef costs.
So we will see inflating prices like we have.
I don't know that they'll hit the same price points that the futures prices indicate.
As it relates to how do we manage margins to that we always have to remember our plants are located in the key feeding zones in the livestock in cattle and hogs.
And that's where the cheapest cost to gains are.
So as the herd start to decline particularly in beef you'll see more cattle fed into the most efficient areas of the country that feed it where either weather or grain are favorable from a cost to gain standpoint.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler of CLSA.
Donnie I wanted to ask about your statement within you press release about fiscal '11 having the potential to be comparable to 2010.
Could you just -- I mean with that you guys gave the [ph] guidance but is that what we should be thinking about the $2.18 number for fiscal '11? And then I guess the follow-on question there would be what would have to go right to get you to that level or maybe where is the most risk in terms of not achieving that type of result in fiscal '11? So let's start with fiscal '11.
Pretty comfortable if you're thinking about back around the GAAP number.
Now certainly the adjusted number we still think is very well within the range of possibility but a bit of cloudiness around market conditions particularly in Q4.
And Dennis you may want to jump in here a little bit too.
So tell me again what the second part was? Around what would have to happen or that kind of thing I think was what the rest of your question was isn't that right? Well really what's the biggest risk in not achieving that type of number because I think most of the street is worried most about your Chicken division where the industry seems to be consistently increasing production despite the fact that the cash player is in the red.
So can you give us some comfort that you see that dynamic playing out that you'll remain profitable? And I guess at what level do you expect to be profitable within your Chicken division to get you to that whether it's the GAAP number or the pro forma number? So yes we currently expect each quarter to be profitable in Chicken.
Certainly the other segments as well and I think Jim added some color about that in his commentary.
I think the only thing is some major market interruption that we're not currently forecasting.
Our assumptions when we go through and look at our forward year pretty much fall in line with currently available price forecasts.
We model in what we know about our input costs.
We model in the efficiencies that we believe we'll see because of our production activities and the efficiencies will see from CapEx spend.
We model in the pricing that we already know.
And remember we've got a very diversified business model with varying different pricing models within different segments.
So being multi-channeled and diversified helped in times like this but most certainly because you're a very efficient producer.
And then for the things we don't know we pretty much forecast in external data what the marketing services are showing for pricing and that type of thing and we use the forward curve on unpurchased grain.
So that's how we get to our number.
And we feel very comfortable about where we are because again our results are primarily driven by obviously taking care of our customers the mix of our products that are sold and then the excellent cost improvement that we've had.
Dennis do you want to add anything to that? That was very well put Donnie and I just wanted to add just a few comments.
What Donnie said is we think we will be around the GAAP number for the year.
It's also important to note that we think we will be around the GAAP number for Q2 as well with a chance at being at the adjusted number for Q2 and for the year.
So we're right in the ballpark of those kind of numbers.
Our next question comes from Stephen Share of Morgan Joseph.
I wanted to focus in on the Beef business a little bit.
And specifically you mentioned that this last quarter the cattle costs increased faster than the beef cutout.
However the data I look at suggests that's kind of reversed starting in 2011.
And so I guess my question is have you seen that as well and will that be a tailwind for kind of your Beef operations when we compare the second quarter versus the first? And then secondarily longer term how should we think about supply and capacity here? Longer term we've seen the benefit from a smaller herd in terms of pricing.
However at some point does capacity utilization become an issue? And how do you look at those two variables? Start with youre reading the front-end data correctly and you're seeing a very very good rise in the cutout and for a very robust pricing particularly in determining [ph] ground beef chuck and round-complex.
And then the answer to the second part of your question is again it comes back that over time you'll see if the herd continues to decline the potential for capacity utilization decline.
And again it comes back to the feature [ph] plants located close to the feed lot supply should be alright.
Were the cost of gains are unfavorable they won't be able to compete for the feeder cattle.
And there'll be plants potentially in those zones that will have some capacity utilization challenges.
And remind you that most of our plants sit in Western Illinois Iowa Nebraska Kansas Texas and then out in Washington state.
So we are situated and have been for a long time in the kind of core feeding zones.
And we did have inefficient plants outside of those zones over time that we have shut down.
So the biggest capacity utilization challenges you think will really be on you competition not you? Yes.
I guess I'm hoping that's the case because of what I've said and what the economics will do their job on the cost to gains.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to drill down a little bit on the statement you've got in the press release about the $500 million year-over-year of grain costs.
In the past couple of quarters you sort of given a little more color on where you were.
I think for a while you were saying you had protection above $4.
It just would be helpful if you can give any type of commentary on that for fiscal '11.
Just because our math would suggest that you do still have very favorable hedges on for '11.
So any help there would be great.
And again I want to qualify this comment by saying I may frustrate you a little bit on the lack of information but comments about this come back to us in the marketplace.
So I want to be real careful.
Here's what I'm comfortable saying about our grain position.
I feel good about the $500 million because as we know it that would be the increased impact to our cost structure from a grain perspective.
Now remember lots of operational efficiencies mix changes et cetera that we offset that increase in grain cost by.
So let's start there.
Secondly we have Q2 pretty well covered at levels higher than Q1 below current market.
Q3 you should feel comfortable about the control we have around Q3 again at levels above where we were at Q1 below current market.
Out front less coverage than that and really I just don't want to get into too much more detail about that.
I hope that gives you the information you need because that's really all I feel comfortable about.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to get a little more discussion on pricing what is in place across your segments what you're still trying to get if you can elaborate there.
And then on the Beef side is there any issue with capacity utilization in your facility? On pricing here's how I want to address that Ann.
We have various different pricing models.
Some portion of our business albeit a very small portion is on fixed price contracts longer than a year or longer than a quarter up to a year so a portion but a small portion there.
We have probably less than a third of our business or so at this point that is on the spot market.
The rest of the pricing would be in varying different pricing arrangements in between those two.
It may be a fixed volume agreement that has quarterly pricing or monthly pricing or those types of things.
So there really is a blend and I think that's about as much detail as I can give on the pricing.
I'll quickly answer your question on capacity utilization though I'm not real concerned going forward particularly not the majority of 2011 with the cattle [ph] feed number.
Our next question comes from Ken Zaslow of BMO Capital Markets.
I just have one question.
I know you guys said based on USDA data that chicken production should be up in 2011.
My question is how do you see the sequential changes throughout the year? I mean obviously it's going to be up a lot probably in the first quarter.
And how do think that's good to play out throughout the year just in terms of chicken production? The way we look at it honestly is we look at the USDA data and other available industry data and we draw our industry production assumptions from that.
So nothing different from what you're seeing Ken.
So you think it will be up in the first half and down in the second half is that generally the thought? It seems to be that the industry experts if you will are taking back half production off a little bit but...
Not baked into our pricing right now.
Yes we're just using whatever available industry production forecasts are.
And just a follow up on that is you guys have a lot more experience than a lot of the informant and all that information out there.
What do you think is the level to which margins have to get negative for the chicken industry to become a little bit more rational and pull back? Because it seems like you guys are actually doing a little bit of your part at least through the first half of your year.
Could you give a little color to that? Is there balance sheet issues? Is there things that are fine [ph] and lo and behold everybody's just going to keep on chugging along? How do see this playing out from your experience? Ken from our experience what we have to focus on and what we have to control is our business.
We focus on our customers.
We focus on being very innovative for them and helping them grow their business.
We focus on increasing value-added mix.
We focus on operational efficiencies.
We focus on baking efficiency and effectiveness into our supply chain and increasing and improving our logistics capabilities.
We focus on quality service innovation.
That's what we focus on and those are the things we can control.
And that's where we're going to spend our time.
Our next question comes from Christine McCracken of Cleveland Research.
Just on to touch Donnie in your outlook for Food Service and retail you basically suggested that there was relatively limited growth I think expected this year due to some various factors.
But I'm just wondering when you look at your volume trends in the quarter and you talked about inventories how do you think about how you produced to kind of flattish growth? Is that going to be picked up by export markets? And then is there any impact from incremental volumes being added through your international operations that might be maybe inflating those volume numbers more than what we might have seen in domestic markets? There is a tad bit of international impact but it's not significant in these numbers nor in this current fiscal year's outlook.
Remember most of our international operations Brazil and China those are startups.
So the big volume growth is in the domestic business and think about that for the rest of the fiscal year.
And yes we did plan to grow our business this year.
And we will and have and we think will continue to earn our customers business and that's growing our business.
People -- in today's environment our customers are relying on us to help them add value to their business to help them grow their business with innovative products.
They need great service.
They need great quality.
And we're providing those things and we're being rewarded with business for doing that.
So those are the things that we're going to continue to focus on to win with our customers because we know ultimately that's how we are going to win and how we're going to be able to grow our business.
And Tyson New Mexico was not a significant factor in the quarter? Tyson New Mexico had a very good quarter.
But in terms -- if your question is around the volume growth no they weren't a significant contributor to the volume growth.
But then now they had a great quarter.
Our next question comes from Heather Jones of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
On your last conference call I believe you had said that you could see Food Service business [ph] for chicken you could see Food Service demand up I want to say you had said in the 1% to 1 1/2% range.
Your commentary today would sound like you brought down that outlook some.
And I was just wondering if I'm taking this correctly.
Actually it was kind of flat to one Heather.
And today I think you saw the unemployment number drop to nine.
But my opinion is in that number there's a significant amount of the population that is past the 99 weeks.
And so I think that is moving that number a little bit.
There is still a very large portion of the U.S.
population that's unemployed and underemployed and I continue to believe that that is going to affect Food Service volume.
And frankly I'm not forecasting any real growth in volume at retail.
We may see a little mix shift.
A lot of that would depend on what the retailer decides to do.
But I'm still in that flat category.
It's a tough one that's additive.
I'd love to see it.
I hope I'm wrong I hope I'm dead wrong and this thing takes off.
But I just don't see it.
Last quarter we also did some math for you that said that if Beef volume was down by 2% or 3% and half of that flowed into Food Service if everything else consumption stayed constant that it would flip-flop.
And that was part of that 1%.
So you haven't become more pessimistic since your Q4 call.
You just haven't become more optimistic.
That's a great way of putting it.
The numbers are bouncing around a little bit but frankly with as much volume as there is at Food Service or at retail 1/2% or 1%  that's rounding you're may be -- I mean you know what I'm saying.
We're dealing with a lot of -- billions of pounds here.
I know it's a lot of pounds but still nobody you certainly not me can call it within a point.
Our next question comes from Tim Ramey of D.A.
Davidson.
Jim I don't know if you're up in Dakota Dunes right now but nobody's asked about the weather impacts and I have to believe that there should be some dislocations here.
Can you speak to that? First of all I've been living in Arkansas for about a year but the weather down here is just as bad as it is in Dakota Dunes.
So this week is a very abnormal week simply because you had not only a lot of Pork some Beef but a lot chicken production interruptions from weather.
So the numbers this week will be fairly erratic and off their trend lines.
And sometimes they increase consumptions but they certainly throw disruptions in.
But all of the protein supply will ultimately find its way to the market.
But it certainly was very rough this week.
Do you think that had anything to do with the move in protein prices this week or unrelated? It could have some movement but the big movement in Pork was still the demand of the export arena which threw a lot of price support into particularly picnics and butts.
And we saw a lot of price support generally even ahead of the storm interruptions.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
This one's for Donnie.
Just looking at the Chicken segment beyond this fiscal year I mean what do you think needs to happen? Grain prices aside if grain prices stay where they are what do you think needs to happen for Chicken division to sort of return to a normalized range for the full year? Akshay we will see continued improvement in our cost structure and our business should continue to grow albeit that is somewhat dependent on Food Service growth.
At this point it's really way too early to speculate because we're at what 90 days -- no 60 days maybe not even that before the March 31 planning contingents.
And that starts a whole different season for us in terms of the grain production.
So it's really too early to start calling that.
I think for our business though you should expect us to continue to improve to continue to stay competitive.
We will be better than we are this year next year.
We plan and our focus is on improving every day every week every quarter in how we serve our customers and how we maintain our cost structure all those types of things.
So think about it in terms of continued improvement in terms of the things that we can control and in terms of us taking care of our customers and then this other stuff is just going to have to take care of itself.
The next question comes from Christina McGlone of Deutsche Bank.
Jim it looks like the free-trade agreement or the trade agreement on beef with South Korea is moving a little bit more quickly now and I'm just curious to get your take on that.
And then if you can remind us the kind of market from a mix perspective that South Korea is.
We're encouraged that the free-trade agreement will increase or take some of the impediments away so that there is more product that moves to Korea.
That mix is going to be predominantly in the chuck and the plate meat.
Again you're seeing across-the-board very high ground beef and trim prices which are reflective of decreased imports as well as increased exports of the trim category.
And you're just seeing what the total domestic availability decline in beef is doing to the prices.
So it will be positive overall as we go forward in the Beef category.
Our next question comes from Christine McCracken of Cleveland research.
Just a quick follow-up.
Donnie I think you mentioned on Food Service that passed some of the pricing along at least in the channel.
I'm just wondering how much of the increase in wholesale prices has actually hit the customer at this point? And if it does get passed along a little bit more efficiently here in the next few months if then we might see a bigger price response or how do you think about that? Christina I may have -- if I said anything that implied that I didn't mean to.
How much and when our Food Service customers are passing along to the consumer the price inflation if it ever happens.
And remember on the wholesale commodity level jumbo breast meat kind of raised [ph] at above 20.
And we're trade well back of that.
So I don't know that the Food Service -- if that operator is buying commodity meat I haven't seen price inflation yet.
But I don't ever like to project or infer on how our customers are going to move that along to the consumer.
That's their gain.
We're dealing on wholesale pricing and wholesale pricing alone okay? And really we've got to get over to the shareholders meeting.
So I'm going to need to please wrap this up.
So let me thank you for joining the call today and certainly thank you for your great questions.
If you do have more questions or you want to follow-up please do so with investor relations.
Before we go Id really be remiss if I didn't note the passing of Don Tyson.
He was an iconic American entrepreneur who took Tyson Foods to just global prominence and created one of the most well-known brands in the world.
He meant a lot to our Team members.
He meant a lot to me personally.
We'll miss him and we're going to do our very best to carry out his legacy by making great products by serving our customers by taking care of our team members and creating value for our shareholders.
Our plan is to stick to the basics.
We strive to be the best in each of our segments.
We're going to manage our costs and we're going to get our debt back to investment grade.
And we're going to reinvest in this business.
I think 2011 will be a year that would have made Don proud.
Thanks for joining us and have a great day.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Also today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ruth Ann Wisener.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the second quarter of our 2011 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Ruth Ann.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for our second quarter call.
In our press release this morning you saw that we reported $0.42 a share which is the same as we reported in the second quarter last year.
Sales were $8 billion which is a record and over $1 billion more than the second quarter of 2010.
Our overall operating margin was 3.8%.
As expected all segments with the exception of Chicken we're in or above their normalized ranges.
Chicken [indiscernible].
We believe it will continue to be profitable in both the third and fourth quarters.
Grain hedges were a factor in Chicken's profitability but not the only factor.
We continued to work on operational efficiencies which played a big role.
Jim will go into more detail about that and our efforts to increase revenue in Chicken in a moment during his comments on our segment performance.
In terms of domestic demand we usually see some fall off at the beginning of Lent but we didn't see that this year.
And on the other hand we typically get an uptick after Easter but demand has been slow probably due to the bad weather experienced in much of the country.
The slow economic recovery is still a factor as well.
After a fairly steady increases consumer confidence dropped in March.
Rising gas and food prices continued to reduce disposable income.
According to Nielsen consumers are likely to remain conservative and hold on to many of the behaviors they adopted during in the early stages of the recession including eating out less value-conscious shopping and increased use of coupons.
One difference we're seeing is that consumers are now making more frequent smaller retail trips to help manage cash flow.
Retail beef and pork prices are very strong and eventually this should support chicken prices.
Our chicken prices mostly increased to cover this unprecedented grain costs increases.
We are seeing more future activity in chicken this summer in both retail and food service.
And chicken is still a more affordable option for people trying to feed their families in tough economic times.
In our November call we predicted foodservice sales would be flat to up 1% and volume might be up around 1%.
Now based on the industry data we studied we predict foodservice sales to increase slightly from our earlier projection in dollar sales driven primarily by menu price inflation but volume growth to be flat.
The menu mix is shifting towards value and some operators are compensating for higher prices with special deals.
So in general I was cautiously optimistic about our brighter outlook for the foodservice sector based on earlier unemployment figures but as gas prices continue to rise my optimism is waning.
And I believe we can expect to see an impact on traffic at both QSR and casual dining.
Our international startups are making steady progress.
In China and India we continue to improve our live and processing operations.
We're also getting the management teams in place that can drive long-term volume and earnings growth in both those countries.
In Brazil we're upgrading our product mix while focusing on yields and labor cost management.
This mix upgrade will allow for more profitable exports as well as growth with major domestic retailers.
Our long-standing Mexico business is driving value-added growth through new product innovation and a commitment to quality.
Switching gears a bit I'd like to say a few words about the devastating storms experienced in Alabama less than 2 weeks ago.
Our hearts go out to the victims and they've been in my prayers.
Tyson Foods was very fortunate considering the destruction in the area.
Two of our plants in Northern Alabama were not damaged although both lost electricity for a while.
Now while some of our growers lost a few houses and others experienced varying levels of damage in total we lost less than 200 000 birds which is a small fraction of our company's average placements of around 40 million birds a week.
Now looking forward to the rest of the fiscal year there is concern about crop plantings and what that might do to grain prices.
We're also concerned that if $4 or even $5 gas prices linger it could have an impact on consumer spending.
We're feeling increased pressure from these market dynamics.
It'll be challenging but our business is in good shape and we still think 2011 EPS will be at or above $2 or close to our GAAP number last year.
That concludes my opening remarks.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a review of our segment results followed by Dennis with the financial report.
Thanks Donnie.
Pork continued to perform extremely well with a 10.5% return on sales and operating income of $146 million.
Although down from the record set last quarter it is a substantial improvement over a strong second quarter last year.
Volume was up nearly 7% with average sales prices up 18% quarter-over-quarter.
We do not anticipate a major change in the hog supply and there should be adequate supplies in the regions our plants are located.
Pork segment returns should be above the normalized range in the second half of the year although we don't expect results at the level of the first half.
The Beef segment produced 2.8% return on sales and an operating income of $94 million.
Although down from the previous quarter in Q2 last year these are still very solid results and within the higher normalized range we set a year ago.
Sales volume was down slightly while average price was up about 20% quarter-over-quarter.
We expect a slight decline in fed cattle compared to last year.
However we should have adequate supplies in the regions we operate our plants.
Barring any major market disruptions beef exports should remain strong in the remainder of the fiscal year contributing to lower domestic supplies and strong pricing.
We have been anticipating some domestic demand destruction across the beef complex.
However this is potentially supportive of chicken pricing as more customers and consumers look for alternatives to higher-priced beef products.
As expected the Chicken segment struggled to overcome $82 million in higher grain costs for the quarter but managed to maintain profitability with a 1.4% return on sales and $37 million in operating income.
In the second quarter we were successful in getting our inventories to near-historic lows.
Our increased sales reflect higher pricing and sales from inventory but do not indicate an increase in production pounds.
Over the past 2 years our poultry business units have done an excellent job of improving our operations and taking costs out of the system to be an efficient provider to our customers.
However the opportunities for cost savings are not enough to fully offset escalating feed costs.
Current projections for increased corn and soy costs are approaching $0.5 billion year-over-year.
We have no choice but to pass along these costs to maintain profitability in the Chicken segment.
Our Prepared Foods segment posted $31 million in operating income and 4% return on sales which is at the low end of the normalized range.
As a reminder Prepared Foods includes numerous businesses such as bacon lunchmeat tortillas pizza crust pizza toppings soups and side item.
Some of these businesses continued to perform extremely well while others have room for improvement and we are working on those.
All however are dealing with higher raw material costs which increased $59 million for the quarter.
Many of our sales contracts in Prepared Foods have shorter terms or are formula-based and we were able to offset rising costs through pricing.
Tyson is facing challenging markets and rising inputs but as I've said before it's important to put this in context of global protein supply and demand fundamentals.
U.S.
per capita protein supplies are forecasted by many to decline slightly in calendar 2011 versus 2010.
This would be the fourth year in a row it has declined which is unprecedented.
Export volumes continue to increase for a variety of reasons and imports continue to decline.
There is demand for our products a global economy willing to pay for them and supply is limited.
This means our customers and consumers will continue to see increasing prices in general for protein products.
In closing I would like to congratulate our business unit managers and their teams.
They have taken on these challenging conditions and continue to rise to the occasion focusing on the details being our customers' go-to supplier and managing costs.
We appreciate their effort and success.
And now we'll go to Dennis for the financial report.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As Donnie said earlier we reported Q2 earnings of $0.42 per share which is even with the same period one year ago.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months was a solid 24% a measure we are proud of achieving and are striving to maintain consistently over time.
Capital expenditures were $161 million for the quarter.
This amount reflects numerous capital projects that will continue to enhance production and labor efficiencies improve yields and sales mix.
Our effective tax rate for Q2 was 34.9%.
As a result of rising input costs from grains live cattle and hogs our operating cash flow for Q2 was negative $117 million.
It's important to note however that we were able to reduce our inventory volumes to help mitigate these rising costs.
In addition we improved our base receivables to further offset rising working capital needs.
Receivables and inventory were up nearly $750 million compared to a year ago and were up over $500 million since fiscal year-end.
Including cash net debt was $1.7 billion down $466 million from a year ago a remarkable accomplishment considering the cash flow used for working capital purposes just mentioned.
Total liquidity was $1.6 billion including availability under our credit facility and cash.
Bond buybacks were just $30 million because bond premiums were generally above our repurchase targets.
From a debt ratings standpoint we were pleased to receive upgrades from all 3 rating agencies: S&amp;P Moody's and Fitch.
We also achieved our goal of returning to investment grade with S&amp;P and Fitch and are now just one notch below investment grade with Moody's.
In addition we amended and extended our credit facility during the quarter.
Our new facility is not only lower cost but also provides us with more operating flexibility.
It also includes a collateral-release provision that will take effect in August.
For this we are grateful for our banking partners' support and recognition of our improved financial performance over the past 3 years.
So here's an updated outlook for fiscal 2011.
Revenues are expected to be -- exceed $32 billion driven largely by rising raw material prices an increase of more than $3 billion from 2010.
We expect fiscal 2011 net interest expense to be approximately $230 million down about $100 million from fiscal 2010.
This is also down $15 million from our previous guidance.
The refinancing of our revolving credit facility along with recent ratings upgrades has resulted in further savings.
The effective tax rate should be about 35%.
Our diluted shares for the second quarter were 383 million.
This reflects the dilutive effect of options and convertible bonds which fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
We will continue to reinvest in our business and we still expect CapEx to be around $700 million.
Our spending is focused on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of our domestic and foreign operations.
Depreciation and amortization will be approximately $525 million.
We will use excess cash to repurchase notes when available at attractive rates.
From the standpoint of debt maturities we do not have any significant debt coming due until fiscal 2014.
The balance on our 8.25% notes due October 2011 was $314 million as of April 2.
We plan to retire these notes on the last day of the fiscal year with cash on hand which was nearly $800 million at the end of Q2 or with future operating cash flows.
In closing I would like to thank our team for continuing to demonstrate financial and operating discipline while dealing with volatile commodity markets which have a big impact on our costs and working capital.
Team despite these headwinds you were able to do what you said you would.
That in itself is a great accomplishment.
Overall we have a great financial position with solid debt ratios along with a strong balance sheet and capital structure.
This will enable us to continue delivering results in a challenging environment.
We believe our current earnings multiple does not reflect what we've accomplished and the obstacles we've overcome.
As we continue to improve operations consistently deliver strong returns on capital and generate solid earnings in difficult times we believe the market should more accurately reflect a valuation worthy of our performance.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christina McGlone.
[Deutsche Bank] Donnie you had said on the last call that by the end of March your inventory would be on plan and then you would start your normal production -- you will go back to your original production plan which calls for production increases.
And I'm curious if that's still the case or if that's been tempered at all by the fact that the seasonal uptick in demand has been less robust than normal.
Christine first of all our inventory is at or actually slightly below what our target was at the time so we feel very good about that position.
And yes our production plans are in place.
Let me hasten on to add it's important for us that we keep this supply-and-demand balance in check.
And so far so good with our plans and we continue forward.
The next question comes from Heather Jones.
BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Quick question Jim on the Pork business.
The cutout price is down about 10% over the last 6 weeks and consequently packer margins have compressed significantly.
And I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of what you're seeing as the primary factor driving that quick of a decline and what your outlook is with regards to the next couple of months for that.
Yes the cutout did drop over the last 4 weeks about 112% predominantly driven by big a correction in the belly price.
And even though seasonally hogs do tighten during this time frame which they did and hog costs did come up our margins held in there very well.
We were very pleased with that.
And I did really expect to see kind of a correction in the prices as we've seen throughout come in through this time frame.
But in that pork cutout it was predominately the bellies so.
Was it a correction just in the markets because they've gotten too high? Or have you seen a decline in demand? Both.
The market had really overshot itself early into that 150 zone and then did correct back.
So that was it.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman.
JPMorgan.
Just had a question.
You guys made a point there or an argument for an expanded multiple which I understand.
And I've heard some investors who are bullish on Tyson's say "Look these guys have earned on a pro forma basis 220 last year.
They're going to earn call it 205 or so this year.
Maybe something similar next year.
That consistency is something that's not often seen in the protein business." Is that the argument there that you would have? Or is there a different argument perhaps for the higher multiple as far as you're seeing it? Yes definitely.
Ken this is Dennis.
We believe that we're a different company now.
We have basically stabilized our margins.
We're on top of what we're doing best in class in all 3 of our major segments.
And we're just continuing to improve and drive efficiencies.
Our return on capital is high.
It's up there in the 20s.
We plan to keep it that way.
We are trading at a discount to our peers not only in protein but in ag at a fairly significant discount.
So all that being said we scratch our heads and wonder why the multiple hasn't expanded.
Certainly something that the Street seems to be struggling with and we keep saying that we're going to deliver and keep these earnings going.
So just to follow-up then are you arguing for a peer multiple or a better-than-peer multiple in your mind? Looking at our results probably better.
Let me just add a little bit here Ken.
First of all we have a multi-protein model.
We are in all 3 proteins plus our Prepared Foods model.
We also go to market in multiple channels.
Multinational although our international business is by and large our startups.
That paints a picture I think for us in the future.
We've got a very diverse business model within each of the proteins and those multiple business models all have a commodity and/or a value-added component.
No competitor has our product diversification.
We've got unparalleled resources our team and our Discovery Center and those type things to create value for our customers through product innovation.
We've had a great cash flows in the last 24 months and that's allowed us to dramatically strengthen our balance sheet.
Dennis talked about our debt reduction our liquidity our capital structure our return on invested capital and it gives us the ability to invest in our future productive capability.
We've done a great job of keeping our inventories in check.
We've got -- we had a lot on hand in Q1 but we corrected that in Q2 like we said we would.
And yes we've got our team focused on the drivers of our business.
We've done a great job in terms of our operational efficiencies and cost competitiveness.
So you add all that up I think that paints a picture of a completely different company than what we were 2 or 3 years ago.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam.
Stephens Inc.
First of all Dennis just a clarification on mark-to-market.
What caused it in the Pork and Beef segment in this quarter? And then my real question is perhaps Donnie and Jim coming out of Easter you did see demand for proteins a little bit softer because of the high gas prices and I was wondering how the Beef and Pork segments have reacted in terms of slaughter levels.
Has there been any modification to better match supply and demand? Farha let me try to answer your first question but you said a decline in mark-to-market? Are you talking derivatives? Or what are you...
Yes the derivatives mark-to-market I was just wondering what caused it.
And how does that reverse itself out? Well first of all it -- at the end of the quarter we still had very high prices and with any short positions we had on to cover forward buys or any livestock positions that we had we would have a negative mark-to-market on those.
And they -- as the market has corrected lately they would have been already in the process of correcting.
So on the derivatives that's -- the primary purpose on those is forward-bought livestock to protect exactly what we saw as a correction.
Okay? Hopefully that answers that.
They were fairly clearly spelled out in the magnitude.
It didn't surprise me looking at that.
Back to your second question.
Farha could you repeat that? The question -- let me make sure I get this right.
The question was softness out of Easter and dead livestock slaughter.
Correct or...? Exactly.
Did you see a softness in demand coming out of Easter? And therefore did pork and beef processors moderate slaughter levels to accommodate that? Okay yes.
Farha it was a bit soft coming out of Easter but let me hasten on to add if you go back in the last quarter and what we've said this quarter we've not ever painted a very rosy picture of demand for the year especially as it relates to our performance.
So with high gas prices -- and frankly I got a little bit encouraged by the drop in unemployment.
Of course it popped back up to 9%.
And if you look at that environment I don't think you should paint a very rosy picture about demand going forward.
So had a couple of soft weeks.
Probably weather had a lot to do with that: rains going through cool wet spring.
We dealt with that in the last 30 days particularly.
I'm going to let Jim cover the slaughter response to that on beef and pork.
Yes we did see a reduction in wholesale prices and they came through Lent very very strong.
If anything I felt that they were extremely strong and probably overdone and I've already covered the major correction in pork which bellies were a primary driver on that.
But beef what we saw was the cutout -- the blended cutout dropped very substantially in that 4 5 week period.
In fact it dropped at almost $11.44 on the blended cutout per hundredweight carcass.
And then live cattle followed it right down at about the same levels.
So we saw about the same thing in pork although the pork live didn't correct.
It actually again seasonally comes up.
But we did see demand shift wholesale prices correct.
Part of that was I think they were fairly high-priced coming into the spring and then we did see with the weather a combination of events some weaker pulls across the board in that last week of April.
And hopefully this last weekend we'll probably see a reversal of that.
And demand is always a precarious scenario on being oversupplied and undersupplied which will drive our prices up or down depending upon the situation.
And the response of the industry have you seen slaughter levels pull back? Well we saw a correction 2 weeks ago in cattle and we're seeing seasonally in hogs so.
We always try to make sure we're looking forward on that demand picture and not making sure that we have our meat sold and we don't oversupply it.
So we really pay very close attention to what we think the forward pulls are going to be and keep ours in balance.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler.
It's CLSA.
Could you just tell me -- you didn't really give a number in the answer to Christina's question about your production plans for the back half of the year.
And I guess in light of the fact that you are not painting a rosy picture on demand why would production be up at all? And I take it you're talking about chicken? Yes.
Okay.
We've said that our number for the year would probably be up in the low-single digits.
We still think that's probably where we'll end up.
We got a little over-revved in Q1.
We've corrected that back into Q2.
Our focus now is on driving revenue to be able to cover these very expensive input costs.
And hey I tell you if we're successful in our plan as it stands now we'll be in good shape holding into that low-single-digit number.
If as we drive revenue it calls for a different production number hey we'll adjust that.
Our goal has been to always balance supply and demand.
And if an increase in revenue causes a demand shift we'll adjust our supply accordingly.
But currently we've got several levers to pull to increase our revenue and I don't see the necessity.
Okay.
So what I'm reading in your press release where you say -- this is my read of your press release; I realize it's not how you've quoted it -- is that basically you're covered on grains through the end of the fiscal year at a profitable position and then who knows what happens with grain because right now I've got corn curve in backward H [ph].
So obviously it's not something that you just switch off overnight.
So are you telling me you have some clarity about where your feed costs will be as you move into fiscal '12 and therefore you can think about what your production levels are today? Or are you completely uncovered in '12 at this point? Yes we do and I think you've got a pretty good read on how to interpret our press release.
Our next question comes from Ken Zaslow.
Bank of Montreal.
Two questions.
One is "On the demand side how much pushback are you seeing at retail? And are you seeing any switching in promotional activity among the 3 proteins?" And then the second question is "Dennis is there any restrictions to you guys not -- to buy back stock on your side and not pay down debt and instead take some of the money and actually use it to repurchase stock?" Let me -- This is Dennis.
I'll take the stock buyback and then kick it over to Donnie and Jim.
There's nothing really to stop us from buying back stock other than what's in front of us that's quite uncertain.
What if corn goes to $10? Those kinds of things -- we really maintain a lot of liquidity.
It's $1.6 billion right now.
We need to maintain a lot of liquidity.
We have great investments to put into our business with high returns so our priority right now is continuing to make sure that we have plenty of liquidity make sure that we invest heavily in our business like we are.
That's definitely an option.
There are no restrictions.
In fact the new revolver -- the restated revolver gives us quite a bit of more flexibility.
So we can do that it's an option but not now.
Sometime later probably so but not in immediate future.
And on the demand question I think we'll answer: the Memorial Day I believe we will see some pretty good featuring of chicken although bonus loins in pork and the middle meats in beef are probably going to feel some feature activity as well.
I do think though as we move out on into the summer feature activity in chicken both at retail and foodservice should improve.
It's going to be a great value for the consumer.
The back half of the bird today is driving revenue growth at the retail level and obviously breast meat prices are quite a bargain.
So we think you will see fairly strong retail and foodservice featuring into the summer.
Our next question comes from Jeff Farmer.
Inc.</strong> Jefferies.
You touched on this.
So you guided to I think about $200 million in price and mix improvements for the Chicken segment.
Just curious if that number is still in play for 2011.
And I guess more importantly even if the industry sort of sees their chicken pricing sort of stay where it is if it doesn't move materially do you think you can still see a $200 million in price and mix improvements in 2011? What we've said before is that we thought we would get a couple of hundred million dollars in operational efficiencies and yes we are on target to get that.
In the beginning of the fiscal year we also said that we would be driving towards about that same amount a month -- about that same amount in revenue increases.
With the market prices that's been a bit more of a struggle but we are being able to see some improvement today.
And so I think you can count on our ability to deliver positive quarters in Chicken both in 3 and 4.
There are raw material prices that are up against those operational efficiencies but fortunately our team is focused on getting those which is helping us to combat these high raw materials.
Our next question comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann.
Goldman Sachs.
Just a quick one on chicken feed costs.
First of all I just wanted to see if you guys were exploring or what your take was on substituting corn feed for other types of grains be it wheat or any other opportunities there are in your feed rations to cut out costs.
And then second just to clarify you talked about in the first half -- I think it was $66 million of feed inflation and you expect the full year feed inflation to be $500 million.
And so am I reading it right that you think there's going to be $434 million of feed cost increase in the second half of the year? Yes it's certainly back half loaded Lindsay.
And on your first question we have a great commodity team and they're always looking for alternative ingredients.
Now in most livestock dives corn and frankly corn substitutes whether it be wheat DDGs whatever that might that be are primarily the energy source for the diet.
And our guys are always looking at the corn-wheat ratios at grain sorghum for example -- lots of things that we can do to help mitigate our costs.
We're very experienced in doing that.
We've been doing that for years and I'm confident that if there's an alternative out there our team is on it.
They're researching it and they know how it will affect our performance.
Maybe just to follow-up on that a bit deeper.
Is your expectation -- with the last wazzy [ph] update and we'll get another one this week there was some controversy on expectations that you would get a fair amount of substitution away from corn to help offset some of the tightness in yield-crop balance sheet.
In your experience not just with your chicken operations but just looking at feed lots and other producers across the country do you see some sort of shift of that magnitude away from corn and into substitutions that you think can alleviate some of the tightness in the balance? Not dramatically no.
I would say that the bulk of that substitution's already occurred DDG utilization is -- dried distiller grains utilization is probably optimized throughout.
And then as Donnie said all livestock species are always looking for alternative feeds build them into the feed ration and looking at positive impact on feed costs versus any potential negative impact on performance.
And our livestock producers and chicken producers throughout the U.S.
are very very adept at utilizing a variety of different feed sources to keep the efficiency and cost of gains in line.
Our next question comes from Tim Ramey.
It's D.A.
Davidson.
Donnie we've seen a strong export picture and some supply disruption as a result of the tornadoes.
Can you talk a little bit more about how you think those 2 factors might be influencing overall availability in supply and pricing? Sure.
Tim obviously we think one of the predominant factors in determining pricing is domestic protein availability.
With very strong exports in beef and pork and strong exports in chicken as well we see that domestic availability for the 2011 year should be about flat down slightly maybe.
And then on the other side the impact in Alabama I'm not completely sure -- as I mentioned in the earlier part we didn't sustain very much damage at all thank God in our businesses in Alabama.
But it looks like to us industry-wise there will be some production decline because of that.
I don't sense that the impact is going to be tremendous.
So I would say a stronger impact on pricing will come from continued strong exports than from the production disruption from the Alabama storms and -- well the storms that swept through that area: North Georgia Tennessee and Alabama.
And would you say you're participating in the strong exports? Pilgrim's I think had a very big number out a week or so ago.
In terms of participating yes but I'll be honest with you -- well in Beef and Pork but if you look at our Chicken business honestly we are looking at shifting more of our production away from the export markets into domestic consumption.
As you well know the predominant cuts out of the U.S.
in chicken going into export are the back half of the bird and we see an opportunity in a pretty tough economic decline -- climate to revenue up by moving more dark meat domestically and that's our focus.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow.
Crdit Suisse.
Hey Donnie I'm just wondering about your perspective of the chicken industry overall.
And in your mind do you think that the industry is behaving rationally? And the reason I say that is everyone seems to be hedged for 6 months or so but you do have the specter of much higher corn cost when those hedges roll over and you could see margins staying well below normalized levels through fiscal '12.
So you argue that the valuation multiples in the group are probably too low and Tyson is trading at a discount but in order to get those multiples higher investors need to have some sense of comfort that the industry is behaving more rationally this time around call it tighter lending practices.
But maybe you can even marry that up with your plan which is to keep volume in positive territory.
If the industry stayed in volume territory do you think that margins can still recover? Okay Robert I'm not going to speak to the industry and that type of thing.
I will talk about our business and so let me talk a little bit about what happens to Tyson and let's say our hedges roll off.
Our price-risk management activities are important and we have a great team that manages that but hedging is not the ultimate solution.
What we're focused on is passing along higher prices because we really got no choice.
Revenue is the solution to our business so if you look forward into our 2012 we don't see any basic changes in the fundamentals of the Beef and Pork segments from what we see today.
And well as we look forward into the Chicken segment when we get the revenue increases that we need to cover these costs that should carry on over into 2012.
So that's our view as we move forward.
We will continue to monitor our inventories and we will continue to balance supply and demand.
And as I said earlier in our focus on revenue if that changes the demand picture out front our suppliers will adjust accordingly.
But we don't see the need to do that today.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews.
It's Morgan Stanley.
The one question I had was -- and it goes back to the questions about the pork and beef prices.
Has something changed in terms of the pricing at retail? The consumer -- my understanding is that in the past despite the material inflation in raw material costs the retailer had been acting as a little bit of a shock absorber relative to the consumer.
So I'm just wondering if some of the demand weakness is also related to the consumer actually seeing higher sticker prices in the last few weeks.
Can you help us with that? I would say that those -- the retail prices for beef and pork had been climbing -- inclining rather.
They were up about 11% 12%.
And yes I'm guessing that the consumer did see a shift.
Again I think that's favorable over the long run to chicken prices.
But "The market will always do its job" is always the saying and when the consumer does see it as they pass -- as our customers pass along higher wholesale prices the consumer does see it and there potentially are shifts.
Now interestingly chicken was the least -- up the least at 3% during that last 13-week period and had the least influence negatively on pounds which are off virtually flat or down slightly compared to the pound declines that we saw at retail in beef and pork.
So the market is doing its job in passing on higher prices and the consumer adjusting accordingly and you're seeing that in a variety of other food-based products as well where you're seeing wheat-based and dairy-based products going up.
So even with all these changes again as the wholesale prices did correct we've been able to maintain a spread throughout this correction and particularly those spread businesses in beef and pork.
Okay.
It just seems to me that...
And you're seeing it right but that dynamic didn't surprise us.
And only in the market again makes those adjustments.
And I always got to emphasize in beef and pork and I already stated that the livestock costs did correct as the wholesale cuts did correct out.
Sure.
No fair enough.
And then maybe just a follow up on the chicken questions.
One of your competitors I guess last week or the week before sort of was -- or my take on their comments was that they were willing to produce as long as they were EBITDA breakeven in chicken and it seems like that's sort of where the industry is today.
How do you feel about that metric? Well we look at trying to make money and EBITDA is not the metric we use.
But we are extremely focused as Donnie's already said on driving revenue through a combination of mix and price and hitting all our yield parameters that we set targets for.
So we fully recognize and get paid for the inflated input costs that price is a mechanism as well and one of the mechanisms on driving revenue.
So we're targeted.
And as we said we think we'll be fine and make money in chicken on an EBIT basis operating income basis in Q3 and Q4.
Our next question comes from Christine McCracken.
Cleveland Research.
Just on the pork volumes in the quarter they seem to run pretty significantly ahead of the industry.
I'm wondering if that was more of an industry or an inventory kind of push or if there was something in the year-ago period that I might've missed.
Something -- I didn't understand -- in the what period? Year-ago.
Year-ago period.
No again we usually set up our whole planning process looking at what we think we have available coming in supply with the producers that supply us and staying sold.
And really it wasn't any intentions.
They were up.
"It wasn't clearing inventory " is the answer.
Okay.
Anything specific driving your second-half outlook on pork then? You've mentioned the impact -- the potential impact of higher gasoline prices but I think it seems like there has been some trade down into pork here over this summer as you mentioned.
I'm wondering why you're relatively it seems like negative on the outlook here through the summer and into the fall.
I didn't really mean to come across negative at all.
I just said they wouldn't be as robust as they've been because they've been up and very well above the normalized range.
I think we'll be fine and actually above the normalized range but not at that super-high level that we just came through Q2 with.
We'll see some correction as we come into the Q3 period which we normally do in May June.
You'd normally see a seasonal decrease in supply.
And then I was concerned because bellies were so high-priced on a wholesale basis and anxiously watching to see what clearance.
And we did see bellies correct $0.25 a pound from $1.50 to $1.25 at a very fast rate.
And I'd kind of expected to see that.
I was hoping actually that they didn't go up quite as fast because a fast up is always usually followed by a fast down and that did drive some margin compression.
But I'm certainly not negative at all on the second half.
It's just not as strong as we've seen in the first half.
Our next question comes from Ryan Oksenhendler.
Yes it's Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to ask about pricing on chicken.
One of your competitors talked about being able to change their fixed contracts during the quarter for the rest of the year.
And maybe they'll take some pricing here.
And your thoughts on being able to take pricing in the fall when a lot of your national accounts come up for bid.
If we don't see production cuts until then how comfortable are you about getting pricing for fiscal '12? First of all we don't have a very large percentage of our business that is in fixed-price annual agreements.
We have some but not much and we talked about this in previous quarters.
We try to mitigate some risk to our business by decreasing the amount of that.
So our business will respond favorably to the seasonal increases in market prices that normally happen about this time of the year.
As we move into the fall the protein domestic availability even with an increase in production in chicken of say -- I think USDA's got it at about 1% in the quarter or 1.5% or something like that.
Even with that the domestic availability of protein in the U.S.
is going to be at or slightly below where it was a year ago and we think going into the fall that will be a fairly good environment for us.
But now a lot of our pricing is based on the value that we deliver to our customers.
And so we've got great quality we've got great service we've got great innovative capability and we've got the ability to get paid for that.
So that's our focus is on driving value to our business to our business partners to our customers and getting paid for the value that we supply.
Our next question comes from Stephen Share.
Morgan Joseph.
Say I wanted to focus in on beef a little bit.
It seems like -- I realize price was up a lot -- live cattle was price was up a lot but if I look at choice and select cutout those prices were up it appears to me even more in the quarter.
So I guess I was surprised that you're gross margin wasn't a little bit stronger there.
Well let me quickly say that you're right.
The cutout on an aggregated basis quarter-over-quarter same year was up 24% -- or excuse me 18%.
Drop credit was up substantially but live cattle costs were up 24%.
And we had some margin compression compared to the prior Q2 of fiscal '10.
So we did see that rapid run-up but we saw live cattle follow it up very much at the same point in time.
So we were still very much in the normalized range saw some of that compression compared to that a year-ago quarter and then we're seeing the markets adjust right now.
As I stated earlier even though the cutout came down in these last 4 weeks 11% live cattle costs fell -- not percent dollars per hundredweight -- our live cattle costs on a carcass-weight basis dropped actually at the same rate or slightly above that.
So will your hedging activity -- I mean should we expect that number -- when we look at the operating margin kind of the 2.8% would you say that's a pretty good number for the third quarter as well and the rest of the year? Do you think you'll have an opportunity to do better than that? I would expect that we probably can work on improving that quite a bit as the fundamental sets up because I'm still very bullish on exports.
We did see this correction and then we're coming in to bigger seasonal supplies which -- generally historically this May June July period is when packer margins generally expand.
So we're in a situation where I'm very comfortable yet in beef.
Okay.
So there's a decent chance that that 2.8% operating margin might mark the low margin of the fiscal year.
Yes I think there's a reasonable chance of that yes.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale.
KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Jim the first question is for you Jim.
On beef just wanted to follow up on the margins.
What we see in the spot market is somewhat different from what you're I guess implying for the rest of the year which is that we've seen in the spot market the beef cutout spreads come down quite a bit in the last month or so.
So I mean is that just -- again going back to your argument about a higher valuation -- I mean do you feel like you are outperforming the market you have in the past and you're continuing to do that? Can you help me understand what I may be missing here? Because just looking at the USDA cutout value relative to what's happening in the live cattle market will tell you that the spread has compressed.
It's not going up.
So what am I missing there? Well what you're missing is always the difficulty of taking aggregate data across a variety of regions and a variety of different cuts and trying to draw a quick conclusion.
But as I said even though the cutout dropped $11.44 in that last 4 weeks per hundredweight cattle cost corrected $12 per hundredweight flat on the carcass.
We maintained margins throughout this whole time frame.
Again our goal is always to beat the revenue on every individual cut.
I know one thing: the market won't let us buy cattle appreciably cheaper than anybody else so our margins hold in there on basically beating the revenue side having a good mix portfolio export portfolio a combination of a real strong customer base.
So it's a little difficult for you to just take the average USDA cutout numbers and look at that.
They are what they are in a negotiated standpoint.
But as I said that relationship actually corrected in unison and it went up actually when I go back and cover the numbers I did earlier.
Q2 '11 to Q2 '10 actually you saw live cattle increase at a faster rate than the revenue.
So we hold it in there and it is a spread game.
Our goal as I've said many many times on this call is to always beat the index on the revenue side and hold onto it and then really just work constantly at being the low-cost high-revenue player in the regions that we operate.
So I mean it's a business fundamental that we go after.
I know that's fairly complicated but that's the basic data that's out there.
Akshay let me -- I'm going to add just a touch.
And here's the thing that I think we might be missing.
We have been beating we are beating and we believe we will continue to beat the market spreads as you would see them today.
I mean we've yet to have a negative week in beef in the fiscal quarter.
We are operating above what -- if you just looked at the cutout we're operating above that and we believe we're going to be able to continue to do so.
That's very helpful.
Can you buy -- if not now maybe as a follow-up tell us how much you generally beat the cutout buy? Well it would help in terms thinking of evaluation premium but anyway I can follow up on that.
The other question is on chicken Donnie.
So there's a view out there on the chicken side that the cycle is correcting it's turning.
And there's also -- some people believe that it's going to correct pretty dramatically and quickly.
So my question to you is "Hypothetically if the rest of the industry cuts supply by 2% to 3% over the rest of the year do you think Tyson could get to normalized earnings in Chicken in 2012?" It's going to be very tough for us to have a 5% or better operating income for this fiscal year.
We've got a wall of costs coming at us.
We've talked about grain prices $500 million.
Plus you've got a lot of other raw inputs that we deal with.
Freight all of those things that increased costs: fuel costs utilities costs et cetera healthcare costs et cetera et cetera et cetera.
So it's going to be tough this year.
But -- now looking forward our goal this year is to be able to get revenue in place that will carry next year into a position to where we could get back up into our normalized range.
So our goal this year obviously -- we're going to continue to improve on operating efficiencies and we see -- we're on track and we see more runway.
So our cost structure non- call it grain- or input-related will be lower in '12 than it is.
Now remember we're also spending fairly heavily on our Chicken business to continue to improve our cost structure and our productive capability as we move forward.
So in the back half of the year our focus is on increasing revenue so that we can get paid for this high cost structure this market-input-related cost structure that's affecting our business.
So when you combine low -- better operating efficiencies and a lower overall cost structure with the ability to get paid for the inputs then we view going forward our ability to get Chicken back into its normalized range.
But that seems all to be company-specific issues.
So are you saying that you feel good about getting to a normal range even without any production cuts for the industry this year? What I'm -- I am talking about our business and I don't believe -- number one I'm not going to speak for the industry.
I'm talking about what we have to do to drive our business performance.
I don't want to leave the impression that we're victims to raw material or inputs.
Our job is to get paid for what we do.
And we provide a great deal of value and I went through a laundry list of things earlier of things that separate us from our competitors in the industry and our job is to get paid for that.
And that's what we're focused on.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin.
LLC</strong> Davenport.
Just wanted to follow-up.
After listening to the call and your comments it seems the tone's a little more cautious.
And I'm just curious with the softer consumer demand after Easter how -- I guess what gives you the confidence to maintain the outlook for '11 versus 2010? What am I missing? First of all I'm not -- Easter was historically very late okay? And I'm not going to overreact to a couple of soft weeks.
This is a long year.
The fundamentals of our business are in place.
So we have not had -- in any of the expectations about 2011 we've not had a very rosy picture of what economic climate we were going to be flying into.
So the climate that we're operating in is the climate we expected to be operating in.
Despite that we still feel like we're going to be as I said at or around the $2 mark.
Now before we said GAAP and maybe the adjusted number and I feel comfortable at $2 maybe GAAP.
So yes slight adjustment down but I don't think anything dramatically.
And hey this is going to be a very good year for Tyson Foods.
And the climate that we're operating in -- I think it's important to note the climate that we are operating in is the climate we expected to be operating in and that we built our plans to be operating in.
So we're on plan and we believe we're going to deliver.
Our next question comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann.
[Goldman Sachs] Just quickly wanted to know if you guys had an update on whether you're seeing anything in the form of inventory restocking out of Japan.
The export demand out of Japan has remained very strong so we've certainly seen no pullback.
If anything we continue to see strong interest up front.
Any indication that you're seeing accelerated interest? And you had a great start to the year.
Post-earthquake are you seeing demand above what you had seen starting the year? The information I got from our team is that it's continued strong post-earthquake and there will continue to be a replenishment and continue to be consumption.
And again I always brings this back to "The global supplies of protein beef and pork are down and we continue to see this very strong export demand which has been very supportive of all pricing." And when you really look at the Jan Feb numbers in all 3 species year-over-year they're all extremely strong and I'm quite certain March will print that when they're final and April and out front.
So the things we've been talking about on the domestic availability supported by strong declining -- supported by strong exports is certainly materializing themselves and again will be very supportive of pricing.
That's one reason we're not that negative going forward.
We're very positive for that real strong fundamental that exists.
Our last question comes from Diane Geissler.
It's CLSA still.
So am I reading you right that the goal in fiscal '12 in the Chicken unit is to be within the normalized range on your margins? Yes ma'am.
Well I hope you can tell from our answers to your questions we feel good about where we are as a company.
During challenging times in the past I think we would've looked at this as weathering the storm.
We don't think that way anymore.
We're in a strong position.
We've improved as a company.
We see plenty of opportunities to become even better.
I think we can compete favorably with our -- or compare favorably with our competition Tyson's in all 3 proteins plus Prepared Foods.
We have a diverse business models within each of those proteins.
We have commodity and value added.
No competitor has our product diversification and the resources that we have to create value for our customers through innovation.
Our chicken inventories are down to historical lows and we've got one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry.
And even with increased grain costs we continue to invest in our business to improve our efficiency our profitability and our productive capability.
And most importantly we did what we said we were going to do.
The fundamentals are there.
As long as we stay focused there will be more good results in the future.
I want to thank you for your interest in Tyson and hope everyone has a great day.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now like I'll turn today's meeting over to Ruth Ann Wisener.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the third quarter of our 2011 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Ruth Ann.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us our Q3 call.
Well our multi-protein multi-channel value-added business model again proved effective.
I'm pleased with our execution and our results.
In our press release this morning you saw we reported $0.51 a share for the third quarter or $0.46 a share on an adjusted basis.
We once again posted record sales of $8.2 billion and an overall operating margin of 3.8%.
Jim will provide detail on our segments but I'll just point out that these return on sales was near the top of the normalized range and Prepared was just under its range.
In May of 2010 we raised Pork's normalized range to 46%.
Because it has consistently performed above 6% and we believe this performance is sustainable over time we're again raising Pork's annual range to 6% to 8%.
The Chicken segment's return on sales was only 1%.
But given the unexpected supply and demand imbalance in the third quarter we're proud to say our Chicken business was profitable.
We believe we're adjusting to a new paradigm where for a prolonged period we'll be required to get Chicken pricing to cover our costs in the upper $0.40 per pound range.
To give some context live costs have averaged in the mid-30s the past 5 or 6 years and near the mid-20s for the 2-plus decades prior to that.
We believe the current input costs are here to stay.
Therefore we're focused on pricing because the current situation is simply not sustainable.
On our second quarter call we were cautious about chicken consumption particularly at foodservice but it was slightly worse than we our customers or other forecasters predicted.
This along with excess production led to market prices at or near historical lows.
We now know why consumption didn't meet expectations as the Commerce Department recently released its advanced estimate of calendar Q2 GDP at a weak 1.3% and simultaneously revised calendar Q1 GDP down from 1.9% to 0.4%.
Unemployment is still over 9%.
Gas prices continue to take a bigger piece of disposable income with the average price of unleaded peaking at almost $4 a gallon in May.
These macroeconomic factors have of course affected consumer behavior in both the foodservice and the retail channels.
Technomics (sic) [Technomic] is currently projecting foodservice will grow in 2011 to be a negative 0.6% which is only about 0.5% lower than our margin [ph].
As the foodservice industry continues the slow call to recovery we'll continue working with our customers at every major market segment to bring back traffic focusing on product innovation and promotion strategies to allow them to hit the price points consumers need to get them eating out again.
In the retail channel all major proteins experienced dollar sales increases in April through June.
And according to the Perishables Group chicken managed about a 1% increase in pounds sold.
Beef and Pork pounds were down as strong exports led to lower domestic availability.
Now unfortunately increased chicken sales weren't enough to counteract increased production.
USDA data shows that pounds produced were up 2.7% versus the same quarter a year ago while cold storage inventory increased 100 million pounds and exports were flat versus last year.
Domestic availability must be in balance with demand before industry economics can improve.
Tyson continuously strives to match our supply to demand.
And as a result we made a production adjustment in the third quarter.
As a company we must be even more conscientious about providing value and understanding the need for value beyond price.
In response to consumer behavior we've devoted resources to develop specific products and marketing plans to meet customer needs in this sluggish economy.
We believe our balanced portfolio is key in meeting these needs and it has played an important role in our performance relative to our competition.
We'll continue investing in our business to serve our customers while improving operational efficiencies.
When supply and demand rebalance we're confident of our ability to perform even as the economy doesn't improve anytime soon.
We also continue investing in our international operations.
In Brazil we're working on automation yield improvements and mix upgrades and we're growing our production capabilities to meet customer demand.
In China we're near start-up of our greenfield operation in Jiangsu and we continue to be pleased with our operations in India.
We're also pleased with our long-standing business in Mexico.
Even though Tyson is already the largest producer of value-added chicken in Mexico our team there is doing a great job of growing our value-added business especially with branded products.
Now that concludes my opening remarks.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a review of our segment results and then followed by Dennis with the financial report.
Thanks Donnie.
The Pork segment continued to perform very well with an 8.8% return on sales and an operating income of $124 million.
Pork producers in general have covered increased grain costs over the past couple of years and supplies could be up 1% to 2% year-over-year.
U.S.
exports in May were nearly 13% higher than a year ago and for the third consecutive month they exceeded 400 million pounds.
While exports are strengthening Tyson is capturing more of those exports.
As Donnie mentioned we have raised the Pork segment's normalized operating margin to 6% to 8%.
By changing our approach to margin management we've improved our competitive position even in times of higher hog costs.
We believe we can sustain results at these levels because of our operational execution our selling strategy and the location of our facilities relative to hog supply.
The Beef segment had a 4% return on sales on an operating income of $140 million.
Their operating margin was within the normalized range despite an unusually wide fiscal Q3 North-South spread and cut across that favored our southern plants compared to our northern plants in the feed lie [ph] regions.
There appeared to be a shift in beef buying patterns as well.
White meat prices have been below the 5-year average while the chop cuts round cuts and ground beef are above the 5-year average.
Even with lower middle meat prices we've done an outstanding job of marketing our products and we're getting paid for the value we create.
In addition cattle  prices were up which enabled feed lies [ph] to receive higher prices for their livestock.
All these factors combined demonstrate than our Beef segment can still perform well while facing headwinds.
Beef exports in May were 15% higher year-over-year and in the first 5 months of the calendar year.
U.S.
beef exports exceeded 1 billion pounds.
As with pork our share of the growing beef export market has increased.
Turning to the Prepared Foods segment.
On an operating income of $30 million we produced a 3.7% return on sales.
This is slightly below normalized but we expected this due to the price lag associated with higher input costs.
We still have challenges to work through in Prepared Foods especially our lunchmeat business.
We have identified the need for numerous operational improvements.
The Chicken segment produced a 1% return on sales of $28 million in operating income.
Although these aren't good results I'm pleased our Chicken business remained profitable in such a difficult operating environment.
Foodservice consumption appeared weaker than anticipated and retail consumption was up slightly year-over-year.
Our customer sales plans for chicken were based on uncharacteristically strong demand experienced in March and April.
However the demand from Memorial Day to July 4 didn't meet anyone's expectations.
We now know that this is because the economy was much more sluggish than initially reported.
Our goal is to match supply to demand.
And following overproduction the industry experienced we cut production in the third quarter but those cuts have not yet impacted the market.
Having a diverse portfolio in both foodservice and retail and a range of products on the value-added continuum put us in a good position relative to our competition and enabled us to drive value for our customers.
Additionally we continued to improve our operational efficiencies.
Despite our improvements we remain concerned about the near-term outlook for Chicken.
At this point we think the Chicken segment will lose money in fiscal Q4 but we haven't given up.
And our business unit teams are working hard to hit their targets by focusing on details and margin analysis.
In summary Q3 had numerous challenges that we handled well.
And I want to acknowledge the success our multiple business units had in dealing with ever-changing business fundamentals.
With that I'll turn it over to Dennis for the financial report Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As Donnie said earlier we reported Q3 earnings of $0.51 per share or $0.46 after adjusting for an unusual tax benefit in the quarter as noted in this morning's press release.
Our adjusted EPS of $0.46 compares to an adjusted $0.67 per share for the same period one year ago.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months remained solid at 22%.
Capital expenditures were $150 million for the quarter and now total $469 million for the first 9 months of fiscal 2011.
This amount reflects numerous capital projects that will continue to benefit us in the future with enhanced production and labor efficiencies group yields and sales mix.
Our operating cash flow for the first 9 months was a strong $686 million despite higher input costs from grains live cattle and hogs which resulted in receivables and inventory being up almost $700 million compared to a year ago and up nearly $600 million since fiscal year end.
Including cash net debt was $1.5 billion down $273 million from a year ago.
Total liquidity was $1.8 billion well above our goal of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt-to-EBITDA over the last 12 months was 1.2x in line with our expectations.
It is our goal to meet or beat 1.3x on a normal basis to ensure sound credit measures and enhance our ability to raise cost-effective capital when needed.
On a net debt-to-EBITDA basis that is when our total cash is netted against gross debt this measure was 0.7x.
For this past quarter our bond buybacks were $25 million and we're again limited because bond premiums were generally above our repurchase targets.
Considering the cash flow used for inventories and grains so far in fiscal 2011 I think our debt level is remarkable.
As a reminder in May we announced our intentions to reactivate an existing share repurchase program.
Pursuant to this program we repurchased 4.4 million shares for $80 million during the third quarter.
We intend to continue repurchasing shares in Q4.
The timing and extent to which we make these repurchases will depend upon among other things market conditions liquidity targets or debt obligations and regulatory requirements.
Our effective tax rate for Q3 was 28.6%.
Excluding the $21 million unusual tax benefit recognized our rate would have been about 36.5%.
So here's an updated outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2011 and for a few items pertaining to fiscal 2012.
Revenues for fiscal 2011 are expected to be -- to reach or exceed $32 billion driven largely by rising raw material prices which is an increase of more than $3 billion over fiscal 2010.
We expect 2011 net interest expense to be approximately $235 million down about $100 million from fiscal 2010.
For fiscal 2012 we expect interest expense to drop to approximately $200 million.
The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 should be about 33% or 35% excluding the $21 million tax benefit previously mentioned.
Our weighted average diluted shares for the second quarter were 383 million.
This reflects the dilutive effect of options and convertible bond which fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
Additionally given the timing of the 4.4 million repurchased shares only half their benefit is reflected in this quarter.
We will receive the full benefit in future quarters which will impact EPS approximately 1% or $0.02 per share on an annualized basis using our current share base.
We will continue to reinvest in our business and we still expect CapEx to be around $650 million for the current year.
Our spending is focused on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of our domestic and foreign operations.
While $650 million is down from our previous estimate this amount is still well above our annual depreciation and amortization level of approximately $520 million for fiscal 2011.
Our preliminary capital expenditures plan for fiscal 2010 is similar to fiscal 2011.
We will use excess cash to repurchase notes when available at attractive rates.
From the standpoint of debt maturities we do not have any significant debt coming due until fiscal 2014.
The balance on our 8.25% notes due October 2011 was $295 million as of July 2.
We plan to retire these notes on the last day of the fiscal year with cash on hand which was $981 million at the end of Q3.
In closing our diversified business models are working well on a combined basis.
We're in a strong financial position with solid debt ratios along with a strong liquidity position and capital structure.
This will enable us to continue delivering results in a challenging environment.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll ask Candy to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Akshay Jagdale KeyBanc.
My question is really on Chicken of course an observation.
Based on where corn and soybean meal prices are today and what you've said about costs being up in the quarter it looks like Tyson would need about a 4% to 5% increase in revenues to offset grain costs in fiscal '12 and about a 10% increase in revenues to offset or to get to normalized margins.
So if you can comment on that that will be great.
But the question really is where does -- in your opinion where do USDA ag stat data need to be over the 6 to 9 months for Tyson to be within its normalized EBIT margin range for Chicken? And if you can just quantify the company-specific initiatives on mix and yield that you're pursuing for fiscal '12 that would also help.
I'm just trying to get a sense of when can you get to a normal margin in Chicken and how you plan on getting that.
Okay let me start with this Akshay.
I'm hoping that my comments will be a little helpful.
But I got a tell you I'm a little hesitant to comment on the percent reduction because there's so much you don't know when you talk about that number.
Ag stats and placements are great leading indicators but in the end what really matters is the amount of slaughter pounds that are on the market each week.
That's what really determines the market pricing structure.
And so you got so many different sizes of birds that just reducing head placed by 5% or 6% doesn't necessarily you'll get a commensurate reduction in pounds 6 or 8 weeks later.
So we spend a lot of time analyzing this.
And I want to back up into history and hopefully give you a decent picture of an environment that we see that was favorable for us.
So let's go back to third quarter of '09 April May June of '09.
In that quarter we generated around a 9 -- 6% excuse me about a 6% return on sales.
Now back then the USDA weekly production was around 860 million pounds a week.
So looking at this year's data we now know why April May June was as weak as it was because the weekly production was 930 million pounds in that quarter.
On top of that you had 100 million pounds more in cold storage than you had back in the same period in '09.
And I think it's obvious to everyone demand was certainly no better.
So really the pricing environment shouldn't be a surprise.
The other thing like we mentioned a little earlier you got to figure that our live cost is now about $0.10 a pound higher than it was in 2009.
So you got to take that into account too.
Now in terms of the whole revenue improvement thing let me take a shot at that one this way.
And then Jim if you want to clean up after me as -- that's be good.
But let's say okay our live cost is up $0.10 a pound.
So breast meat is roughly around 23% to live.
So if you held everything else constant then divide $0.10 a pound by 0.23 you're going to get around $0.45 a pound something like that.
So that gives you kind of an indicator of what market conditions would be need to be.
And I guess Jim do you want to add something to that? And we may need to pause and give you your follow-up to make sure we're on target with your question.
Yes the only thing I'd add is on the April May and June when you look at the difference that it's -- between April to May and April to June that's when you really see the enlightenment because June was record pounds of production and that's when the steep pricing pressure occurred.
And we had the biggest all-time increase from April to June at 4.3% increased pounds produced.
So that'd be the only clarity.
Don't just a look at the quarter because it blends the average.
The increase really went from April May to June at -- year-over-year at 5%.
And when you look at the pricing relative to the prior years you'll see a lot seasonal slaughter pounds.
All right so it's probably time for your follow-up to make sure we're on target.
Yes that is very helpful.
Just -- I understand that it's very hard to predict what the rest of the industry is going to do.
So I just -- if you can help us with the company-specific initiatives right? So you're assuming that the industry is going to do what it's going to do but you know what your cost structure is going to be.
So I'm trying to get a sense of how -- what does your plan look like from a Tyson-specific cost reduction yield improvement side for fiscal for '12? And I'm assuming it's going to be more than it was or you'll try to get more savings than you are going to 3 months ago because of the outlook now.
So can you help us with mix and yield? I mean the $0.10 increase in costs how much of that do you expect to be offset by mix and yield improvements which are Tyson specific? Okay great.
Okay now back on target okay? This year we were projecting about a $200 million improvement in operating efficiencies.
Through Q3 we're at $143 million.
So still on target.
Probably didn't have hardly the same run rate in Q3 as we had in previous quarters but still racing for that.
And looking forward for the next 5 quarters or so -- and I got to tell you our teams are in the process right now of getting their fiscal '12 plans together and making the commitments on their cost savings but it'll look like this.
We see some improvement very significant improvement in live production across our business.
You will continue to see yield improvements in our operating efficiencies.
As we continue to spend capital against these businesses we're de-bottlenecking lines providing us with not only a lower cost throughput but also increased capability that allows us to consolidate products online and run them more efficiency (sic) [efficiently].
You'll continue to see us spend against these facilities going on into '12 as we have been.
We think it -- our Chicken business is a great business to invest in.
Also we've had significant improvements so far in labor and line efficiencies.
I think you'll continue to see that.
So those are the areas.
In terms of the quantity I don't think I can put the same concrete dollar value on '12 that we had in '11 yet but that is something that we would want to be talking about maybe on our next call.
Okay? Perfect.
And one last one.
When do you think -- what's your best guess on when you might get into a normalized range? I mean -- or if you don't want to be specific on that can you at least say that it's not going to be in the next 2 quarters 3 quarters? Anything you can help in terms of timing.
Akshay I'll tell you we still got a corn crop standing in the field.
And the month of August as we saw last year is very important in the crops' yield.
And so it's just too early for us to talk about that.
Honestly hey we want to get there as fast as we can but it's just too early to make that call okay? Appreciate it.
Next question Jeff Farmer Jefferies Research.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to follow up on that conversation.
It looks like your average sales price in the Chicken segment was up 10% in the quarter.
Just curious what really was the driver of that big increase and how sustainable that is moving forward.
Oh yes.
I'd tell you what drove that is great quality great service and innovative capabilities that deserve a price increase.
We add a lot of value to our customers' business and our goal is to always get paid for that value.
So as we continue to focus on their business and grow their business we get rewarded for that for the value that we create.
So that's why our focus is always on adding that value.
Inc.</strong> And just to be clear on that so are you going out there yourselves? People having these pricing conversations retail and the foodservice channels? And you're working this you're basically explaining to them what you're offering now and how it's different from the last couple of years and you're essentially asking for higher prices? How should I think about what you just said? Absolutely.
That is exactly how you should think about what we just said.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You touched on this but breast inventory obviously up huge.
I think it's close to 50% year-over-year.
Again I know this is hard to answer but what is the precedent for this industry being able to work down that number? It look like they hit it in '06 and '08 in terms of absolute breast inventory levels.
But what is the precedent? How do we get this number down in the next couple of quarters if it's possible? That's hard to say specifically because the production the amount of production weighs on that number too.
So if production falls pretty rapidly obviously you'd have a chance to chew through that inventory.
But if it doesn't it could take a while.
So it really does depend on the pounds produced and that weekly pounds of slaughter number that you see from USDA.
That is a key number.
Next question Farha Aslam Stephens Inc.
A question on your Chicken segment.
I mean clearly in this quarter it performed extraordinarily well which is awesome.
But going forward you have some cautious commentary in your press release and we want to understand just kind of how cautious we should be on the fourth quarter and kind of your outlook for Chicken in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter.
Okay.
So first I don't want you thinking about Q4 of '08 okay? It's hard for me to be really descriptive because see when you're adjusting your production on the front end of that period you get the cost increase but you haven't seen the revenue materialize yet.
And so we're now experiencing the front-end cost impact of taking the production out and then we expect to see that the revenue on the tail end of the quarter will be helping get our business back into profitability.
So it's a little bit hard on that timing but I think what you should expect is it not to look like that -- I think it was like Q3 I mean excuse me Q4 of '08 was like negative 3 8 [ph].
I want you thinking that deep of a number okay? And hey these guys -- let me tell you these cars guys are focused laser focused on their spend folks in our plants are doing a great job staying focused on making sure there's great quality in the box and we're done a super job on our service.
So our team is doing everything they could do to get this thing turned back into the wind but it's just going to take a little time for the costs to roll through this quarter.
There's about a -- probably somewhere in the neighborhood of a 8- to 12-week lag on the grain cost side.
And in Q3 we experienced some of the highest grain costs.
So it just takes a little time for that to work its way through.
Okay.
And then for the full year or this year previously you had said that your number for this year could -- EPS number could be kind of within that GAAP number level of 2010 which is about $2.06.
Clearly the markets in Chicken have been far worse than anyone anticipated.
Kind of as you go look forward for 2011 into 2012 is -- are you thinking kind of $1.80 to $1.90? I know you don't give guidance but is that sort of the right place to be? Or can you still hit that $2 level? Chicken fundamentals are definitely going to weigh on earnings.
So I think it's going to be tough to make the $2 on an adjusted basis right now.
But listen we are fighting hard and we think it should be possible on a GAAP basis.
Now we're working hard on that.
We think it'll be close let's say it that way.
We think it could be close on a GAAP basis.
Now looking on in '12 now this is August.
We've got a corn crop still standing so it's way early on '12.
But in Beef and Pork we don't really see any changes to the way the supply and demand fundamentals are set up.
So -- in Prepared Foods I hope to see some improvement there as we're able to get our pricing on top of this raw material inflation we've seen.
For Chicken it's just so hard to make predictions this early when we don't have as much visibility as we need on the cost side through the corn crop et cetera.
So you might think of Chicken kind of as a mirror opposite of '11 where we got off to a great start done it -- finishing a bit slow.
And I think in '12 you start a little  bit slow but you finish better.
So that's about as clear a picture as we could paint for rest of '11 and '12.
So working hard on it.
Next question Christina McGlone Deutsche Bank.
Donnie you -- in the press release it talks about a loss in Chicken in the fiscal fourth quarter but then an impact because of the cuts late in the fourth quarter and into '12.
And I guess that -- given the fact that we seasonally see less demand in the fall and that you do have all this cold storage and then I don't know what the industry is doing in terms of weights maybe you could talk about the weight issue and how much is structural and how much it could actually come down do you really see being profitable in Chicken in the fiscal first quarter and the December quarter? Wouldn't rule it out.
But you got remember that corn crop all right? I mean our Q1 cost of goods sold in Chicken on the non-operational side so the feed ingredients side of that is going to be largely established in August September and first half October.
So we're entering that period now.
Certainly our objective is to get through this dip as quickly as we can and get back in the black as soon as possible.
So we're pushing hard to see that.
And then what about the weights? Can you talk how much is structurally people shifting to big birds or shifting to bigger birds within big birds and how much could actually come out so we can understand when we see heads cut how we have to offset that with higher weights? We really can't add anything to -- you aren't talking about us and our big bird group.
And really across our portfolio we've adjusted head in all of the segments in our diversified Chicken portfolio.
And in our big bird group we've taken our weights down.
So I couldn't tell you what the rest of industry is doing though.
Okay.
And the weights that you've -- the weights you've taken down would we have seen in the data yet or not yet? Probably -- no.
No you wouldn't have seen that yet.
We've had -- that started right after -- maybe just a tad but right around the Fourth of July period.
And it just wouldn't -- not had a chance to kind of work through yet.
It'll be in probably last half August-type time period something like that.
Next Christine McCracken of Cleveland Research.
Just on your comments relative to your outlook I guess on Pork being a little better consistently going forward a little curious on what you expect demand to do at these higher prices.
Or if because so much of it is being driven by exports if maybe price is less impactful on overall demand kind of? Let me -- this is Jim.
I'll try that.
Obviously we're -- on wholesale prices domestic availability or disappearance or some people call it is a primary driver.
And with exports being as strong as they are we've seen the reaction in wholesale prices with the aggregated $1.08 to almost a $1.09 cut-out.
And I can't tell you -- if consumption starts to shift obviously prices will come down.
That's the best I can do on that.
But I would say that if you look backwards most people would be shocked would have never forecasted these higher prices.
But we've seen again domestic availability continue to decline with increasing exports.
And just with the productivity increases that we're seeing now it looks like a lot more hogs here going into the fourth quarter.
Wondering are you expecting maybe margins actually improve as we go forward? Is that part of why you've raised your kind of normalized outlook? Or is it tied to this really strong export demand? No the increase isn't tied.
Really the exports it's really tied entirely to our operational improvement just the selling strategies our operating strategies our supply chain management.
And hogs keep -- are going to be produced where the grain sources are there.
So it's the combination of things not really one variable.
The export prices as they relate to higher wholesale prices usually result in higher hog costs.
So that's really -- we can -- that strong relationship with revenue to hog costs exists.
So our job is to maximize revenue manage mix manage yields managed selling strategies and really stay focused on what we have control over.
So it's really not related to that at all.
Next Kenneth Goldman JPMorgan.
Can you guys talk a little bit more about your uses of cash going forward? You talked about share repurchases in the press release but there were a few I guess smaller Chicken processors struggling with their balance sheets right now.
If some of these guys came to market right even if you yourself were in supply reduction mode would you be willing to look at some of the assets? Or would you just kind of rather let them go away and have that take care of supply on their end? Let me start and then I want Dennis to add a little bit of color here.
First we like to have lots of options.
And fortunately our balance sheet and our cash position gives us that to maybe the latter part of your question first and then bouncing back to the what are we -- then what are we going to do.
We review a lot of proposals.
Frankly we're just really not seeing anything that we believe will give an acceptable return for us and for our shareholders.
Now it's not to say we aren't open to acquisitions.
We are.
We just haven't seen anything yet that we're interested in.
We own a lot of raw material.
We've got great facilities great people great products great product innovation capabilities and we believe that we can create a lot of value by investing in the efficiencies in our current facilities versus anything that we've seen to acquire.
So that's where we stand on that one.
And I'll let Dennis comment on the uses of cash kind of the front-end part of your question.
Ken it's really not much different than before.
We're just re-investing in our business like Donnie just said.
We're maintaining enough cushion to weather the cyclical environment that we're in whether it be grain costs or any other thing that comes our way.
So as I mentioned in my remarks that we want to keep up a base amount of liquidity a certain leverage target we think that's to our advantage from a capital structure and raising capital cheap standpoint.
We will buy back some stock and we'll also buy back some bonds that are cheap enough but we think that having a sound capital structure with a lot of liquidity is to our advantage and we'll maintain that.
And then one follow-up on what you guys said earlier.
Can you give us some color on your feet hedges in terms of how we should model them? I might have thought you were more hedged into the December and March quarters.
But given what you said maybe you were a little bit closer to the market in that.
Just how we should think about that? Okay.
I'll tell you a little bit about process and then a little bit about going forward.
Again we like options.
We like options in our balance sheet we like options in the grain markets.
What we really want to do is just provide a ceiling so that the corn costs just can't get away from us and our teams can be effective as they go to their customers and begin to add value.
And that way we keep our cost structure.
I don't know what exactly the right word is but we keep our cost structure optimized without taking a lot of risk.
Now going forward looking into the -- and again by the way when we talk about grain and its impact unless we otherwise note it we are always talking about that quarter's cost of goods sold.
So it takes a while for that to work through but we're always looking ahead at the cost of good not necessarily purchases during that particular quarter.
So as we look forward we've got some not a whole lot of our Q1 cost of goods sold locked down feel pretty good about where that is.
But going forward there's just so much we don't know about this crop.
We had a similar experience if you'll remember back in '08 when corn ran up to $7 $8 and then came down to $5.70 which is $1.30 lower than where we are today.
Now I understand the different supply and demand fundamentals but if you go back to what we were thinking then struggling economy what would crude do et cetera et cetera et cetera we locked in some I don't know well it was $5.75 $6 corn something like that.
Corn went down to $3.
So we're not going to do that again and there is just too much unknown for us to feel comfortable about going long a lot of corn.
And then if you look at the options premiums very very expensive going out front end of the margin in May time periods to buy options.
So you're really paying way too much for that insurance right now.
Next question Ken Zaslow BMO Capital Markets.
Just I didn't hear.
How much did you cut production? Well you're right you didn't hear that.
Let me try to add a little clarity there for you.
Obviously our demand planning looking out front told us that we needed to make a production adjustment so we could get our pounds in line with current customer demand.
I can tell you our adjustment was across the entire portfolio all bird classes.
Our volume reduction was in head and pounds.
And our reduction I'll say this for the balance of the calendar year is generally in line with the year-over-year decline in the USDA ag stat data.
Okay.
Are you making a structural change to your bird weight? I know that at one time you were increasing your bird weight.
Is there a thought that maybe you're structurally now reducing the size of your birds in certain operations? Is that a fair statement? In certain yes.
But in general our plan is to remain diversified.
I mean we have some birds in small birds some birds in the chilled pack sizes some birds in deboning sizes.
And we've got some big birds.
We are taking the weight in our big birds down just because the feed conversion against those big 8-pound birds with $7 $8 $9 corn is just -- the economics just aren't there.
So we're pulling those weights down.
But in -- no there's no other shift other than to be able to keep the bird sizes at the appropriate level for which they are grown.
Okay.
So just to make sure I understand you guys are cutting in line with the industry? Not exceeding.
You're just keeping up with whatever the industry numbers are just to participate as a I guess as a solid citizen type of thing.
Is that fair? No.
Our production adjustment is in line with what our forward-looking demand is.
Hey our inventories Ken we're in good shape.
And as we look forward we look at the demand against our products.
And so we take into account how much we have in inventory what's our production against that demand what are our service requirements and how much production do we need to meet that demand.
And that's always what runs our math.
Like a lot of folks we got a little over revved.
The Lenten seasons had very strong demand.
And when you make a production decision in Chicken you really make that 3 months out in advance right? And so with that strong early April we had production in line for May June July for that third period.
Well when Memorial Day was a little softer than we thought we said "Got to watch this close we've got to be very careful about our Fourth of July." And then when Fourth of July was just kind of okay at best we knew it was time to change in the -- our demand forecast had shifted downward.
And we made a production adjustment to accommodate that forward shift in our demand forecast.
That's exactly how the process worked.
And my last question.
In terms of managing the cattle supply can you talk about how you and Tyson can actually keep these margins in the Beef packer side given that the cattle supply seems to be pulled pretty aggressively up and there might be a call it hole in the supply? I don't know if that's a good word but can you talk about how you're managing that and how does that work out? Well let me try to answer that.
I'm not positive what your question really means because what happened is drought pulled cattle and the feed guys are being backgrounded.
That really means that they are in the pipeline for the future.
Now -- and when cattle are placed at an earlier weight at an earlier age you got a lot more latitude as to when you manage your out time simply because you have more options in the amount -- and what -- how you feed them to hit an end point.
So I don't really look at any major issues going into fiscal '12.
Now this drought obviously is very severe and it is actually pulling cows out of production.
And so out front in '13 we'll have to be concerned about fiscal '12's cattle crop and how that looks.
But again what happens is the most efficient feedlots are the ones that end up getting the feeders.
Our plants set in those good zones and then we really focus all of our attention on maximizing our revenues through a variety of different programs to include exports to include value-added programs and then keeping our costs in line and the cattle costs what the revenue delivers.
And so that's really the nature of the spread business which is why we've been able to navigate through that.
So we optimize our revenues and minimize our costs and really pay attention to the supply chains out front.
So that's really the answer.
There is no prescriptive way other than you manage lot of details.
Next question Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
In beef all the details for us have been helpful.
But I guess what I want to understand the sort of existential Chicken question is you guys have talked about losing money in Chicken in the quarter that's upcoming.
But then you're also talking about producing according to demand.
So I guess what is it about your operations or about the industry that's causes you to define demand as a loss-making sale? Like what -- why -- now that you're looking at your forward book and negative margins why don't you just keep cutting production? Why do you just as you say well keep producing as long as the customer wants to buy even though we're going to lose money on it? Well first of all I don't think we said that.
The situation that our industry is in today is unsustainable.
If you look across the industry data I'm sure you can get lots of data sources that could tell you what the average integrator is losing and it's not sustainable.
We have plans to continue to improve not only our operational efficiencies but also our revenues.
You saw our revenue increase in Q3.
We intend to continue to get paid for the value that we add.
And as we do that our demand should shift towards us because we're adding value to our customers' business.
And for that we'll have profitable sales going forward.
We've said we are going to take a dip in Q4.
We're working hard to make sure that's a very temporary short-term thing and we're back on top of it in subsequent quarters and seeing successive quarter-over-quarter gains from that dip forward.
That's our plan.
So is it fair then to say that you believe with your operations and competitive advantages that you have business and market share opportunity for you? Look we have -- we've gained some share I think so far.
Mainly what we're doing though is matching supply and demand making sure that we're providing value to our customers.
And as our customers grow we're growing with them and in a lot of cases we're helping them with that growth.
I mean there's categories where our growth is the growth.
So that's what we do.
Next question Tim Ramey D.A.
Davidson.
Donnie you're doing a great job of being very circumspect in your comments and appropriately so.
But maybe with my more bullish rose-colored glasses on I mean you guys are outperforming the industry you're cutting production you had surging exports the risk to corn is probably to the downside and Beef and Pork continuing strong.
I mean what -- is it crazy to have a pretty bullish outlook here? No I don't think it's crazy.
I think it's exciting.
We're -- we -- this team continues to not only work on the cost side but also on the revenue side of the equation.
I mean we've got lots of folks that are -- and by the way in all of the segments I'm not just concentrating on Chicken now but that are finding new ways and new answers for our customers that are providing them with the frankly much needed help during a pretty sluggish economy whether it's working with say retail customers in ways to plan productions around when snack payments are going to come due whether it's an opportunity -- or where -- snack carts are loaded sorry whether it's working in our foodservice on new Pizza Toppings.
We've announced recently we're adding production in pepperoni because of this -- we're -- I guess we're the nation's probably largest or certainly one of the largest pizza topping manufacturers.
And so we're continuing to expand that part of our business.
Our Red Label line in foodservice is doing great.
It's a very good option for foodservice operators and distributors today.
So lots of stuff that we're doing to add value.
Hey adding value in -- we're finding opportunities to use poultry meat chicken meat as a key ingredient in some processed items whether it be lunchmeat sausages et cetera finding ways to use chicken as a lower cost alternative in those meat box.
That's all good stuff in the future.
Good stuff.
If I could...
And I had one real quick comment that -- just so you connect this dot.
And that is we have been spending a lot of money in our core businesses and will continue to do so which drives maximizing net revenue drives efficiency and keeps us across-the-board trying to be the most competitive in producing protein.
And that is across all segments.
So just in case you missed that point.
And then lastly we drive a tremendous amount of innovation for our customers.
And as we said many -- and as Donnie said many times in this call that's how you differentiate yourself.
So yes we are bullish.
And if I could just follow up with you Jim.
Two things.
One how do you see the export situation in calendar '12? It seems to me that we're just going to have to continued double-digit export growth.
And then would you agree with my statement that the risk to corn is to the downside here? It's sounds like from your positioning for the 1Q you do but I'd love to hear your thoughts on that.
Exports I think will continue to grow as we've stated on multiple prior quarters.
When we saw these production pullbacks initiated in the post-'08 period they didn't happen just here they happened across the world.
And we continue to see demand increase across the world so that balance is driving that.
The weak dollar obviously has helped.
But again there's not a place with the life cycle of the livestock to go adequately have that back in the short run.
Corn is too early.
I mean these yield estimates are coming out this week.
So I'm going to wait for those before I make a comment because there's certainly enough people out in the country looking at just what the condition of the crop is.
So they are seeing just -- you are seeing some demand destruction because you're seeing some feed rationing alternative feed utilization.
And I'll have to see what happens on methanol production and exports because the price of the corn have shifted some of the economics of usage around it.
Next question Diane Geissler CLSA.
Hey I have a 2-part question.
So I'm hearing you say that you think Chicken margins will bottom either in the fourth quarter or first quarter 1 of the 2 based on where the grain market is today.
And then my second question or part B of the first question would be I just want to clarify when you talk about fiscal '12 versus your GAAP $2.06 in fiscal '10 I guess is what we're referencing here sorry yes fiscal '11 versus fiscal '10 you still think you can still make it in that GAAP range? Okay so let me take the first part first and the answer to that is yes.
So either the fourth quarter or the first quarter somewhere in there is going to bottom and then...
Yes.
Diane it's kind of the -- the reason is a  little unclear is because of the lag feeds on the grain when that works its way into the cost of goods.
So we're kind of lagging that end now.
You're lagging in the fix-cost absorption issues on the production adjustment now.
And then as you move forward then you kind of settle out there and the revenue in Pork starts coming later.
So how well that timing works? Now it worked perfectly on our quarter but that's the calendar -- that's the part of the calendar that they think in that way.
And then on the other question yes we'll be disappointed if we're not up in that $2 range again in '12.
We really will.
We've got a great business great plans great people great products great product innovation.
We got a great team on the field.
And so our team's focused and we think the thing is set up to give us an opportunity.
We got a little dip here in the Chicken deal.
But we'll get through that and we'll get revenue up on top of this cost structure and we'll be good.
But hey we're going to have to live with this $0.40-ish live costs in that mid-40s area for a prolonged period of time.
So we're going to have to focus our business on getting paid for that.
We add a lot of value to our customers and we're going to be focused on getting paid for that.
Well I guess the question is why wouldn't fiscal '12 be up? Because if Chicken is bottoming in your fiscal fourth quarter and then improving supposedly Pork is going to be somewhere in the 6% to 8% range beef should be basically in line your interest is down and you're buying in shares why wouldn't fiscal '12 earnings be better than fiscal '11 earnings? I like the way you're thinking.
I'm not going to say it won't be.
Now there's -- our cautionary note is around the uncertainty in coal.
So now I feel certain that over time we would get the revenue we need to cover that cost.
I feel certain over the long term we'll get paid for that.
What quarter it falls in and whether the upside in the back end is as strong as we need it to be to get Chicken back in its normalized range during '12 it's just in August in early August it's just a little early for us to call that.
Next question Ryan Oksenhendler from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to clarify this on -- for fiscal '12.
I appreciate the commentary that you gave on the call about Chicken.
But in your press release according to current futures it says that high grain costs will be higher in 2012 and you expect to offset a portion of that with operational price  and mix improvements.
So that leads me to believe that you actually think your margins for the full year will be down next year.
Is that the correct way to think about it? I know it's really early.
Yes.
No it's not Ryan.
It's just too early to tell.
Certainly our intention is to offset grain costs as we had been doing.
You think back since '08 we've got almost $800 million in operation -- in operating efficiencies in the poultry segment alone.
Now there's still a little more meat on that bone and we intend to work hard to get that in 2012.
So our intention in '12 is to offset the higher grain costs with operating efficiencies which would include things like labor management yield management our line production management all those kind of categories and improvements in revenue and the pricing structure of our products.
We simply have to get paid for the value we're providing.
Okay that's fair.
And just a question a quick follow-up.
I guess.
In terms of your Prepared Foods segment I guess the -- mainly with your Pork profit margins would you be willing to pull back on your Prepared Foods business a little bit with Pork margins almost double what they are in Prepared Foods in -- or the cuts of meat that are going to Prepared Foods earning a higher margin than they would if they stayed in Pork? No not at all.
As a matter of fact we think the Prepared Foods area is a great growth area for us.
And remember not only is our Prepared Foods business value-added at least in Pork items lunchmeat deli meats pizza toppings et cetera we also have a good season and sauce business.
We have a very good appetizer business we've got a good tortilla chip business a lot of complementary businesses with the -- the pizza toppings business  is very strong pizza crusts.
So we have a very good diversified Prepared Foods business and we fully intend to grow that business.
Next question Stephen Share Morgan Joseph.
I just want to ask -- I want to clarify.
It's been talked about a couple of times but just so I'm clear.
What you're saying is for fiscal 2011 your GAAP number will be close to $2.06 and then for the adjustment it'd be $1.98.
And what I'm understanding you're saying you'll be disappointed if next year isn't at least as good as kind of that $1.98 $2 number.
Would that be a fair statement of what you're saying? Okay I like your '12 part maybe even a little better than that but your front-end part what we're trying to say is we think that our GAAP number we have an opportunity to push that close to $2.
There's still just a little bit unknown about whether or not we're going to be able to do that.
But man we think there's a possibility so it could happen.
But on the adjusted side as I stand flat-footed today it's going to be tough to make $2 on the adjusted side.
But we got to get -- we got a shot at GAAP.
We're working on it.
Got it.
And then really what I want to ask about was on the Park side your guidance you talked about how you expect Pork supplies to be kind of comparable to what they were in fiscal 2011.
And you've generally been able -- you've kind of guided that that's flat but you beat that a little bit.
It seems like if you were able to procure more pork that you would be able to sell it pretty profitably.
Is there any plans in place to try and get more pork? Is it just to tough to get to the hogs right now? Or what's the situation there? And how could we maybe push that number instead of flat volumes to positive volumes in '12? Well let me answer that by saying the pipeline with the sow herd and the advances in productivity and the infrastructure and facilities probably is going to keep that in that 1% to 2% and which will be predominately an increased productivity.
And that's a fine balance.
We don't -- basically we're -- we really try to make sure that we're optimizing our revenue and our plant efficiency and we don't really have to add anything to absorb 1% to 2% or subtract anything to decrease 1% to 2%.
So that's a really -- that's actually less hog than around in '07 and '08.
So we're basically really trying to manage the spread again for the -- maximize revenue and the hog costs will follow it.
And we operate in trying to be the most efficient and maximize yields product mix export sales et cetera.
That's a really -- not -- now 1% to 2% is a fairly low change.
I see.
Next question Robert Moskow Credit Suisse.
Hey I was just looking at cash flow.
It's been really strong for the last 3 years.
And then when I look at your CapEx spending it's really or most of it is in Chicken which leads me to believe that the cash flow in Beef and Pork but must be just outstanding.
So I guess my question is over the next couple of years when do you think you can -- your CapEx spending on Chicken can kind of come back more closer to a maintenance level? You've made a lot of investments.
They've been very fruitful for you.
But really if you look at Chicken I don't think Chicken has been cash flow-positive at all over the last few years.
So I guess if you can get to a maintenance level at some point wouldn't that have a big step-up for your overall cash flow as a company? Okay.
Well number one we don't view -- we look at cash as just cash.
So we don't -- Chicken get to spend the cash they generate.
Beef Pork spend the cash they generate there for us.
So we just look at cash as cash.
And what we do is -- when we look at capital investments is we look at the opportunities in areas in our business where we feel that we can add the capability that we need to continue to grow our business efficiently out into the future.
In the latter half of 2010 and most of 2011 Chicken did get a disproportional amount of the CapEx.
But I'll tell you what.
Our Chicken business had lots of opportunity with what we would call low-risk high-return-type projects.
And by that I don't mean that -- like they're -- what I don't mean is they're MR-type projects.
They're just projects where we know that the risk is low that we'll get the money.
We want to get for example putting in a cone [ph] line to hand deboned breast meat instead of mechanically deboning it.
Well we've done it over and over and over again and we pretty much know exactly what the return is going to be in that capital.
So that is a low-risk high-return type of -- type opportunity so we're going to invest in that.
So looking out into the future it appears that there's still good opportunity in various parts of our business.
We announced here just the other day that we're going to invest $48 million in pepperoni capacity.
There are still opportunities in our Chicken segment.
There's opportunities in our Beef and Pork segment to improve operational efficiencies and that type of thing.
So what we're really looking at is using our cash where it provides us an opportunity to differentiate continue to grow and continue to return not only for our customers but also for our shareholders.
And that's really how we view our cash.
Dennis you want and any color to that? The only thing I would add is -- with respect to Chicken is we have continuing opportunities in the international businesses in China in Brazil and we'll continuing to build them out.
So that'll be a part of the CapEx picture as we go forward.
The other point I'd make is our goal is pretty simple and that we is know when we have projected for maintenance and repair that don't have a return.
We really motivate our operations to try to find cost improvement yield improvement revenue improvement with the return to costs as that maintenance and repairs so that we're always aggregating.
And that really helps keep us extremely competitive.
So there's a philosophy and a strategy around CapEx.
Next question Lindsay Drucker [ph] Mann Goldman Sachs.
Just 2 quick ones.
First of all you talk about expecting for in Chicken industry production to be down in fiscal '12 versus '11.
Can you just comment on the quarterly pace of that decline? How frontloaded it would be versus back end? Really don't know.
I mean so far we've seen excess chicks place down 5% or 6%.
The total production as we talked about early in the call is really going to depend a lot on weight as well.
We really don't know anything about that yet and probably won't for a few more weeks.
So it's just too early to comment.
I guess just a down slightly piece given the recent pace suggests maybe growth by the end of next year or the end of the next fiscal year.
And I'm just wondering how you're thinking about that.
For us we will continue to as we project our forecast forward on what pullets are going to be what our demand is going to look like that's what we're going to adjust our production to.
So it's just way too early to be able to tell what the back half of '12 is going to look like.
Okay.
And then secondly curious if you could give us some of your perspective on what you're seeing from some of the smaller producers who have not weathered through the first -- year-to-date some of the challenges in the industry what you're seeing those people doing.
Honestly Lindsay all we get is what we read in the papers.
So I don't know.
Okay all right.
Our last question comes from Ann Gurkin Davenport.
LLC</strong> I just want to ask one more question about chickens.
You talk about production cuts but what do you think is the risk that this will be enough for both you and the industry? In other words demand may be -- softens more than expected another round of production cuts is required? It -- time will tell.
I can tell you that the current environment is unsustainable.
And we have an old saying around here "Best cure for low prices is low prices." And so I think the answer is one of timing.
So it's just too early to tell.
We've seen what 5 or 6 7 weeks now of excess and chicks priced down in that 5 or 6 area.
Given that your small bird grow up time.
And then on end of the longer time it takes for your big birds to grow up I think we'll start seeing the impact of whatever those cuts were here in the next 2 3 weeks.
And then we'll probably have a little bit better view of what this thing will look like.
It's just too early.
Okay.
Before we go let me take this opportunity to welcome our newest board member Kathleen Bader to our board.
We look forward to working with her.
There's a press release late last week if you haven't seen that.
And I also want to reemphasize that I'm still very confident about this company about our ability to execute.
The challenges aren't going to go away anytime soon so it remains imperative that we stay focused on helping our customers grow their business and getting paid for the value that we add to their business.
And we're going to do that.
We'll keep are reinvesting in our business and we'll keep returning value to our shareholders.
So thanks for joining us today and you all have a great day.
Thank you.
Again that does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
I'd like to thank participants for holding.
[Operator Instructions] I'd also like to inform participants today's call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Jon Kathol.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter and 2011 Fiscal Year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today and I'd like to welcome John to his first earnings call as our new Vice President of Investor Relations.
Our fourth quarter earnings were $0.26 a share compared to $0.57 last year on record sales of $8.4 billion.
Operating income was down $219 million versus Q4 of FY '10 driven by the $223 million change year-over-year at the Chicken segment.
Now I should quickly add that our Chicken business absorbed $315 million in additional input cost during Q4 versus the same quarter last year and when the dust settled the Chicken segment finished the quarter with a loss of $82 million or a negative 2.9% return on sales.
The Beef segment was in the middle of its normalized range for the quarter at 3.4% return on sales Pork was at the top end of its range or 7.9% and Prepared Foods had a 3.4% return on sales for Q4 which is just under its normalized range.
Let's come back to the Chicken segment for a minute.
We told you last quarter that we would lose money in Q4 and unfortunately that was the case.
But I'd like to give you some perspective on our performance.
July and August were possibly the worst months in the chicken industry has experienced in one of the worst years in industry history.
As for us here at Tyson we dug a hole for ourselves in July.
August improved but were still negative.
September was better yet and we were profitable as we started Q1 and we've been positive every week since.
So now let's review our overall results for the year.
For fiscal '11 our adjusted EPS was $1.89 or $1.97 on a GAAP basis which is the second-best in company history.
We have record sales of $32.3 billion reflecting increased volumes of 1.7% price increases of near 12% and operating cash flows of about $1 billion.
Even though these results were below last year I'm very pleased with our results especially considering the business environment.
Demand was flat as unemployment hovered around 9% mark and of course your all familiar with the input headwinds we faced all year.
Our multi-protein multi-channel multinational business model puts us in a unique position.
While chicken was overcoming obstacles and Prepared Foods was struggling with volatile inputs Beef and Pork performed very well and even improved the their position against the USDA industry index.
As we think about 2012 and how the retail and food service environment will shape up we know that consumer confidence index improved slightly in September but it declined again in October.
So consumer confidence has now dropped to the levels we saw over the '08 '09 recession over renewed concerns about business conditions jobs and income.
We continue to address consumer concerns and their focus on price and value through our product innovation.
Cook it from scratch and healthy food options our own shoppers' list of considerations which I see as a long-term positive for our retail business given our broad portfolio of products that meet those needs.
We work very closely with our retail customers to adjust to changing consumer buying habits to maximize category sales and retailer profits.
Our Tyson national brand is backed by strong regional brands and our portfolio also includes private label offerings with several strategic customers.
In food service consumers are looking for value at every price point from the drive through to full-service restaurants.
Tyson is helping operators deliver that value with innovative products and solutions that drive traffic while protecting their bottom line.
Technomic's food service outlook for 2012 is positive with the return to real growth.
However it's predicting only 0.3% increase.
So the economy won't be helping us grow our business so we must rely on innovation and consumers -- as consumers redefine food service value in terms of quality price and the overall dining experience.
We believe 2012 will bring a renewed focus on chicken features especially at QSRs as a strategy to deal with high ground beef prices.
There's also considerable emphasis on using dark meat as an ingredient which is not only a great value play but makes sense in the big picture of domestic availability of protein.
So when we look at global protein supply and demand despite the economy demand for protein around the world is growing.
With strong exports domestic availability of protein should decline again in 2012 for the sixth year in a row from its peak of 284 pounds per capita in 2006 to about 255 pounds per capita in 2012.
According to the USDA beef domestic availability will be about 6% lower in '12 compared to '11 chicken is expected to be down over 3% and while pork should be up less than 1% and turkey up just over 1%.
In total meat and poultry availability is projected to be down 2.1% in 2012 which should lead to higher protein prices.
Dennis will give you some of our financial expectations for fiscal '12 but I want to go ahead and talk about our CapEx plans for the year.
We anticipate investing $800 million to $850 million in our business on a variety of projects across our segments.
Although we've been reinvesting heavily in the business the past few years there are still opportunities for improvements that should provide good returns.
For example in our Prepared Foods segment we're converting a plant in Council Bluffs to pepperoni production in response to consumer demand in that category.
Our team in Brazil is doing a great job growing distribution in volume so we'll add a second shift of production in 2 of our Brazilian plants in 2012.
And I'm also happy to announce that we opened our greenfield plant in Jiangsu China this morning.
Although it'll take several quarters before we see a significant positive impact on revenues and returns we're excited to take this step in executing our plan to become a fully integrated poultry producer in China.
We're optimistic about fiscal 2012 and we're off to a good start with all segments profitable so far in Q1.
We think this should be a good year and we expect 2012 EPS to be in excess of $2.
So that concludes my opening remarks I'll now turn it over to Jim for a review of our segment results followed by Dennis with the financial report.
Thanks Donnie.
Good morning everybody.
The Pork segment continued its strong performance by posting a 7.9% return on sales and an operating income of $113 million.
This is at the top end of the new normalized range of 6% to 8% we announced on our previous call.
For the fiscal year pork had a 10.3% return on sales and $560 million in operating income.
I think it's a common misperception that our pork business is performing such a high-level solely due to strong exports.
Although exports have led to increased total revenue any spread-business model increases or decreases in total revenue ultimately flow back to the producer and are reflected in the livestock cost.
We are running a much more profitable Pork business because we focus on our daily efficiencies costs our mix revenue and our revenue indexes compared to publicly reported data.
We have outperformed -- we are -- had been outperforming USDA index in pork and in the fourth quarter we further improved our competitive position relative to industry numbers.
The 2012 outlook for our Pork -- for our Pork segment is much the same as it was in 2011.
Hog supplies should be up slightly from gains in productivity and exports should remain strong so domestic availability of pork should not change appreciably.
Based on what we know today we don't expect any significant changes to the fundamentals of our pork business.
The Beef segment also performed well for the same reasons described in the Pork segment.
Beef had a 3.4% return on sales and $118 million in operating income for the fourth quarter and 3.5% and $468 million for the year.
In recent weeks there has the beef industry packer margins compression as the cutout has not kept pace with the increasing cattle cost.
This happens at various times of the year.
Although our margins have compressed the last several weeks we continue to outperform the reported industry numbers and expect our Beef segment to continue to be profitable in Q1 although at a lower level than Q4.
The drop in the Southwest has caused cow calf operators and stockers to push their cattle in the feedlots earlier.
More calf backgrounding is occurring in feedlots which has disrupted feedlot placement patterns.
In the past this has resulted in lighter carcass weights when these cattle are marketed and potentially could shift normal fed cattle seasonal availability.
This may create more volatility as supplies might not match seasonal and demand patterns but keep in mind there are presently my cattle on feed than last year.
I know some of you are concerned about the availability of cattle in 2012 these cattle have been born already and are available.
Also in the past 12 months there are nearly 180 000 more imported feeder cattle year-over-year.
Therefore we plan to process roughly the same number in 2012 as we did in 2011.
When projecting supplies beyond our fiscal 2012 let's look at all the facts.
The herd shows no sign of expanding or contracting when evaluating the percentage of heifers in the fed-steer heifer process numbers.
In the past 12 months the percentage has been 37.4% nearly the same as the past 4 years.
Although cow slaughter has been higher in the past 12 months the percentage of beef in the total cow slaughter has been normal at 60%.
The actual beef cow year-over-year slaughter has been 136 000 more than last year or only 0.4% of the beef cowherd.
The dairy portion of the cow slaughter has increased 157 000 year-over-year with a combined total being up 283 000.
This data implies the total beef and dairy cowherd is declining at 0.7% which is only a slight acceleration compared to the last 2 years.
Moving onto chicken.
We're coming off one of the toughest years for the chicken industry.
We had an operating loss of $82 million or a negative 2.9% return on sales for the quarter.
For the year we had a 1.5% return on sales and $164 million in operating income.
Our Chicken segment was profitable for the year because we have invested a considerable amount of time and effort along with some capital into improving our yields our labor efficiencies and mix while staying focused on product innovation and customer service.
For the year we overcame $750 million in added cost from higher grain and feed ingredients and other inputs because we refused to accept that we're at the mercy of the poor industry fundamentals.
Without these year-over-year added costs we would have reported an 8.3% return on sales in the Chicken segment holding other factors equal.
Over the past several weeks we have seen more than a 7.5% reduction in USDA eggs sets and chicks placed.
However optimum growing conditions in September and October meant heavier birds and the reduction in slaughter pounds was less than the reduction in head.
As they moved in to cooler weather bird weights are declining at close to last year.
For fiscal 2012 we have seen estimates of around 4% fewer production pounds than 2011 which should support improved market pricing.
Ultimately prices need to support the increased live cost and historic -- and history certainly implies that will happen.
We expect our Chicken segment to be modestly profitable in Q1 and improve throughout fiscal 12.
The Prepared Food segment fell well below its -- excuse me but Prepared Foods segment fell below its normalized operating margin range with a 3.4% return on sales and $28 million in operating income for the fourth quarter.
For the year Prepared Foods had a 3.6% return on sales with $117 million in operating income.
We believe operational improvements and increased pricing will offset expected increases in raw material cost.
Because many of our contracts are formula-based or shorter-term in nature typically we are able to offset rising inputs through increased pricing.
Prepared Foods profitability should pick up in fiscal 2012 as we start to see results from the improvements we made in our lunchmeat business.
As always I want to thank our business units and their teams for their efforts and focus on margin management.
The gains in efficiency and cost along with paying attention to their metrics are driving results.
That concludes my remarks and I'll turn it over to Dennis for the financial report.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As Donnie mentioned in his remarks we reported Q4 earnings of $0.26 per share.
Our reported full year fiscal 2011 earnings were $1.97 per share which includes $0.08 per share of adjustments related to the sale of an interest in an equity method investment and an unusual tax benefit recognized earlier in the year.
Excluding these items fiscal 2011 EPS was $1.89.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months remained solid at 18.5%.
Capital expenditures were $174 million for the quarter and $643 million for the year.
This amount reflects numerous capital projects that will continue to benefit us in the future with enhanced production and labor efficiencies improved yields and sales mix.
Our operating cash flow remained strong at $360 million for Q4 and totaled $1 billion for the year despite higher input costs from grains live cattle and hogs and record boxed beef and pork prices which resulted in receivables and inventory being up over $400 million compared to a year ago.
Including cash net debt was just under $1.5 billion down just over $100 million from a year ago.
Total liquidity was $1.6 billion well above our goal of $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion even after retiring the remaining $295 million of our 2011 notes at the end of September.
Gross debt is now down to $2.2 billion as we have paid off $1.5 billion in the last 2.5 years.
Gross debt to EBITDA for the year was 1.2x in line with our expectations.
It is our goal to meet or beat 1.3x on a normal basis to ensure sound credit measures and enhance our ability to raise cost-effective capital when needed.
On a net debt to EBITDA basis this measure was 0.8x.
During the fourth quarter we acquired 5.3 million shares for $90 million under our reactivated share repurchase program.
This brings our total repurchases over the past 2 quarters to 9.7 million shares for $170 million under this program.
We intend to continue repurchasing shares.
And the timing and extent to which we make these repurchases will depend upon among other things market conditions liquidity targets debt obligations and regulatory requirements.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 31.8%.
Excluding the unusual tax benefit recognized earlier in the year our rate would have been 33.7%.
So here are some thoughts on the outlook for fiscal 2012.
Revenues are expected to be $34 billion.
Again driven largely by raw material price increases which represents an increase of $2 billion over 2011.
We expect net interest expense to be approximately $185 million down $46 million from fiscal 2011.
The effective tax rate should be about 36%.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter -- fourth quarter was $375 million.
This amount reflects the dilutive effect of options and convertible bonds which fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
Additionally given the timing of the 9.7 million shares we repurchased their benefit is only partially reflected in this past year.
We will receive the full benefit in future periods which will positively impact EPS by approximately $0.05 per share on an annualized basis using our current share base.
CapEx should be around $800 million to $850 million.
This reflects continued spending on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of our domestic and foreign operations especially in China.
We will use excess cash to repurchase notes when available at attractive rates as we do not have any significant debt maturities due until fiscal 2014.
In closing 2011 was an exceptional year considering the challenges we faced.
Net debt was down $100 million despite $3.7 billion of increased raw material cost.
Strong capital spending above depreciation.
$170 million of stock repurchases and a $66 million buyout of our partner in China.
This just proves our diversified business model works.
Following the 2 best years in our company's history we're excited about the future and look forward to even more success.
Tyson Foods is in a strong financial position with solid debt ratios a strong liquidity position and a capital structure that will enable us to continue delivering solid results and grow our company.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll ask the operator to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Farooq Hamed Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on the comments about the chicken division being profitable as we enter Q1 and growing profitability throughout the year.
So I mean in the past quarter that you just reported we saw an $82 million loss.
I wanted to understand what's the biggest difference we're seeing between this past quarter that was just reported and the current quarter as to why we're seeing an operating income this quarter.
Is it more on pricing side is it operating improvements? Maybe you can give a breakdown of where the increased profitability is coming from.
This is Donnie.
Let's start off talking about the last quarter a little bit.
As we came into July you're pretty much at the peak of your live cost and if you'll remember the market pricing in first month of that quarter coming off a pretty disappointing Fourth of July which really really soft.
So our profitability in Q4 dug a pretty deep hole there at the beginning.
So then as you continue moving through the quarter our live cost kept getting better.
Now some of that was grain related but a lot of that was internal to some things we were doing inside of our business.
Now one other point to add.
Coming off the Fourth of July holiday as I mentioned pretty disappointed and we started pretty aggressive cutbacks at that time and so what we're doing at the front end of the quarter is we're taking the cost hit if you will for making the adjustments in our production.
And then in our business you need to wait 8 to 12 weeks or so before you get the benefit of that in future periods.
So what happens to you is your quarter got front-end loaded because you got the peak of your live cost you're cutting back.
And July I would add I'm telling you that's a pretty ugly month.
But we got better than that in August.
August was much better than July but still negative.
September was much better yet.
Now one thing you probably noticed we had a mark-to-market hit in that quarter of about $31 million.
So let me go ahead and cover that one for you too because it's a big part of the story.
When we were talking in August corn was somewhere around the upper $6 range maybe $7 meal was somewhere around $350 million.
And then we had a little rally off that.
But then in the last 3 weeks of the quarter corn fell $1.50 a bushel or so meal was probably down $60 $65 a ton.
And so at the end of the quarter we were long about 3 weeks or so worth off flat price coverage into the next quarter.
And all of that got marked-to-market.
So that $31 million was a pretty good slice of that $82 million that you mentioned.
So moving forward our live cost is in better shape.
We have seen some pricing help not just market related.
But as I mentioned I think last quarter related to our service offering the value that we're bringing our customers.
We're seeing some price.
So the real recovery into the positive Q1 has really been a mixture of every part of our business.
Our live cost has gotten better we're seeing the benefit of a lot of the CapEx that we've spent in our business and our operating efficiencies at the plants we've seen some logistics help in some new programs we've done in logistics.
So it's coming from just about every facet of the business.
Research Division</strong> That's pretty helpful.
Maybe just as a follow-up then I noticed that in the quarter you mentioned that -- in the release you mentioned that fiscal 2012 grain costs are expected to be higher than fiscal 2011.
So can you comment on how you're going to see those improvements in live cost even though you're going to have higher grain cost? Yes part of the efficiencies frankly coming and feed conversion rates some of it will come in some improvements we've made in our hatcheries.
So it's really in all aspects of the live production.
It's not just related to the -- necessarily just to the cost of corn and soybean meal but to a lot of things that we can control as well.
Next question from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on pork.
Obviously still looking at numbers at that very high end of your normalized range.
But just curious why we saw -- if you could just go a bit deeper into why we saw the sequential deterioration in margin performance even though we're seeing a bit better availability this time of year versus your prior quarter? That's a fair statement? Yes.
In any spread business you can have periods of time when the revenue declines and then the cost of goods or the hog cost don't decline at the same rate or vice versa.
In general that all it wasn't a major decline.
It was enough however to drive a differential compared to the prior quarters.
But it was still a very strong performance.
We didn't have any major shifts other than what I'd call kind of normal spread business margin compression and expansion.
So really nothing significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I think still just trying to get our arms around how fantastic returns have been up to this point.
And I know you guys have been pretty conservative it seemed about your normalized range for pork margins since you've been putting number so far ahead.
And so I'm just curious maybe if you can give us anecdotes on how the business has evolved relative to last year and maybe that will help clue us in to how to model margins going forward given we're still seeing very strong exports and the industry still seems to be operating firing on all cylinders.
So any difference where we are today versus where we were last year that might explain some of the margin differential would be helpful.
Yes.
I mean there's no again one single factor.
What it is is you continually lay improve on your daily efficiencies in your labor efficiencies in your cost you continually improve on your yields you continually improve on your mix of sales you continually improve on trying to beat the market pricing through a variety of different components.
Generally it doesn't happen on the livestock buy side although the only thing we can really influence there is how well we work on yields and our draw credits et cetera.
So I know that's difficult for you to figure out on the model but it's not one thing.
It's all of these little things that we continually improve.
Our model really in the businesses is we do the same thing every day we just try to continuously improve and you have these small incremental improvements over the course of months.
And I know that doesn't sound real profound but that's exactly how we operate all our businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe if you could guys give more detail on how your feed conversion efficiency is improving on the chicken side.
What sort of stuff you're doing to improve that.
Let's see.
All right I'll try to give you a little insight.
So we have made improvements in the production process that have improved not only our feed conversions but also the livability.
Now some of that is going to be attributable to taking our weights down just a tad.
But we also maybe got a little bit out of line on our feed conversion in Q3 and Q4 during some of the really hot weather.
And then we got our out times right.
We've done a good job our live production folks have done a great job improving the upstream processes and feed manufacturing and in our hatcheries.
That's just given us a great opportunity for improvement in the field for all of our growers.
So again it's just incremental improvements.
Getting a little better at everything we do it adds up.
Okay.
Next question Ken Goldman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First I think I appreciate the benefits of hedging and other forward activities but this does mark I think the third straight year in which the impact of your commodity risk management has been a headwind on income.
This past quarter it hurt by $49 million that's the most in almost 3 years.
So I guess my question is this.
Are we reading the data wrong to look at them and ask if maybe Tyson might not benefit by being a little bit closer to the market? Or is it just something where 3 straight years of kind of losses there or negative impact is just a random event and maybe it's still worth it going forward so do all that hedging and get ahead of the markets so you can maybe price based on your cost and so forth? I'm just curious of how we should think about that balance.
Well for the year our total -- I'm going to use the term Dennis did but the total outcome of all of the I'm going to call it hedging activities was about $41 million.
So when you're buying 4-plus million bushels of corn a week 40 000 tons of soybean meal a week and all the other stuff that goes with that you add that up at $6 $7 well $7.50 $8 at times on a delivered basis $41 million that's landing on an aircraft carrier over a whole year.
So I would say that with the extreme volatility -- when corn fell from the upper $7 we were like $7.50 or so.
And at the end of the first week of September and then we're -- gosh it was below $6 somewhere $5.90-ish somewhere around that on September 30.
With as much commodities as we buy having 3 weeks out front is not an excessive position.
So in general we have a very conservative approach.
We stay pretty close to the market we're pretty close to the market right now.
We feel pretty good about that.
But when you've got such a vicious swing in commodity prices in the last 3 weeks in the quarter you got mark that stuff to market and you use a lot that's a pretty big number.
Research Division</strong> And then Jim you talked about how from time to time cattle prices rise more quickly than beef prices and obviously that's true.
USDA data showing some of the weakest industry gross margins right now in the last decade and I'm just curious for some more insight there.
I do appreciate cattle prices up year-on-year but they've been up when 20% year-on-year all of 2011.
Only recently have margins collapsed at least in the reported national numbers.
So I guess I'm just curious what you're seeing there.
I recognize your plants are in areas where cattle are plentiful maybe not as affected by some of the dynamics right now but if you can shed some light on that I'd appreciate it.
Yes.
You always got to remember in the price of cattle you have a lot of regional issues and you can have some small regions that are tight relative to the slaughter demand.
And as the tendency to -- with mandatory price reporting on the transparency of price reporting everybody in government reports exactly what the transactions.
So there's a tendency for the short region to trend higher prices and then kind of move the overall up.
And then over time what happens is those regions correct in demand and the prices come back.
And we always got to remember as a reminder as I reminded the beef group earlier in the week we were coming into Thanksgiving and as long I've been in the industry it's hard to move beef prices up going into Thanksgiving.
And usually you'll have a little bit of a boost afterwards.
And so our assessment was that the volumes needed to moderate.
We're pushing too much meat on a weak demand period and that's exactly what's happened.
In the last couple of weeks you've seen a correction in the USDA reported processing numbers.
And that's why in my comments I really made it that margin compression happens and then the market does its job over time and they expand.
If they get too big they contract.
And that's generally the market dynamics that happens in spread businesses.
We put all our focus always on really trying to make sure that we're managing the mix trying to drive the highest prices relative to the reported numbers.
Combinations of premium programs combinations of formula sales combinations of export and really focus our attention to the detail.
And then we're in the market.
And again I know that that doesn't give you a real complete answer but the market usually the market makes the types of moves.
Has for a long period of time.
And we're pushing more meat than the market could absorb and that's what caused that margin compression.
Next question comes from Heather Jones BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is related to your Beef and Pork businesses.
They were strong for the quarter and I think I'm thinking about this correctly.
Typically over the past 2 years your margins in both businesses on a per head basis have been well in excess of the industry.
And then generally improves in line with the industry on a sequential basis if not actually widening your out-performance.
And so this quarter I'm looking at where -- what you did in Q3 versus what you did in Q4 and there's actually a deterioration sequentially which is while the industry margins show improvement.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what happened during the quarter that would have driven that and how should we be thinking about that going into 2012 as far as your performance relative to the industry.
I'm trying to put my finger on exactly a factor but generally speaking we did not -- when we look at how we index our revenue components and how index our cattle cost components I didn't see anything that really jumped out of the ordinary that said we missed it.
A lot of times particularly in cattle you can run into regional differences between north and south and then the grading differences that can happen that really can sometimes really drive the interpretation of those results.
And if you really understand the numbers you really are indexing yourself.
But we did see the margin compression and didn't really see anything that bothered us relative to our indexes.
In fact if anything we looked at our indexes actually improving even though we saw the results come down quarter-over-quarter in beef.
And then in pork it would really be kind of the same scenario.
We didn't really see the shift and again we're very pleased with our indexes related to how we benchmark our price realizations and our procurement.
We didn't have a major shift in yields.
We didn't have a major shift downward in labor efficiency.
We didn't have a major shift in our market share and key categories.
So we really didn't see it is what I'm trying to say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because our data is showing that you all did to close to $90 a head in Q3 and $70 a head in Q4.
Now as we go into Q1 as people have alluded to earlier the industry has deteriorated pretty dramatically.
When we're thinking about you guys relative to your Q4 should your sequential deterioration be less than what we're seeing for the industry benchmarks? Yes.
I mean we're nowhere near that major decline.
We saw that compression again the last -- starting about 4 weeks ago and then it's starting to rebound now but we've not been anywhere near that negative.
So we're holding on.
In fact every week thus far our Beef segment has remained profitable.
Okay.
Next question Diane Geissler CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Did you give expectation on your range for pork in 2012? No we we've not.
This is Jim.
We have not changed it so we did not alter it up or down for 2012.
Research Division</strong> So what you're saying is you expect to be in your normalized range in terms of pork margins in 2012? Is that accurate? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Chicken business what's the biggest driver there year-on-year? I mean it's got to be pricing.
First of all if I look at your total profits this year fiscal '11 you do expect your profits in chicken in '12 to be higher than '11 correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it's the biggest driver there then pricing coming from just lower supply? Because your commentary on food service suggests that the channel remains pretty weak.
Although you do expect some product development so is it really pricing driven? I mean it has to be because the grain side is worse right? No.
Diane let me try give you a little help.
You're right on the environment we do not view demand to be any stronger in 2012 than it was in '11.
So let's call it demand flat.
By the way probably both at food service and retail.
I believe going into the year depending on how much pricing gets passed on or absorbed into the marketplace might want to keep an eye on retail demand.
But so let's just call it going into the year demand flat.
Now our business yes we do think that we will improve pricing.
But that is not strictly where all of our benefit is going to be coming from.
We'll also make mix improvements in our business.
In other words we will sell more in a value-added mix.
We think that we will continue to see some live performance improvements in livability feed conversion those kinds of things.
And remember over the last couple of years we've spent pretty strong CapEx against our business and a good portion of that has been against our poultry business.
And we've mentioned in the past that those CapEx expenditures were in what we would call good return but low risk type projects.
And by low risk what we mean is there's low risk that the return we think we'll get we'll actually get.
That's proven to be the case.
So the money that we're spending on our business particularly on the processing site in chicken is paying benefits in lower conversion costs we continued to see operational efficiencies and improvements in that side of our business.
So I think what you'll see is an improvement not only on the live side but also in plant conversion side and we do intend to get some improvement in pricing as well.
But it won't all come from pricing.
I think to clarify when you asked me on the pork earlier I said we did not come out and change our range.
However we do expect our Pork business to be in and above the range.
And we don't really see a material change going into 2012.
Just to clarify that answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up on the chicken.
Where is your total production currently year-on-year in terms of head and tonnage? How much are you down? Okay.
We said I think on our call we were talking about being down somewhere in the 6% versus the Q3 run rate versus a year ago.
Research Division</strong> 6%? Yes about 6%.
Our cut has actually been on a little bit more than that and  that's in terms of pounds produced okay? So as we tried to talk about on the last call I've tried to -- I want a lot of clarity around what we're talking about because we've seen egg sets and chicks placed out roughly 7% or 8%.
But until recently we've not seen much significant movement in live weights.
And so I think last week's slaughter pounds were at 969 million -- excuse me 869 million good catch.
And so when we talk to you we'll be focused on total pounds produced.
So we'll be at an excess of 6%.
Next question comes from Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> First on chicken when do you anticipate hitting your normalized range this year in chicken profitability? Our best chance obviously is going to be in the back half.
I feel comfortable that we will see progressive improvement throughout the year.
Still a bit early to be calling any specific quarter in which we think we would be back into the normalized range but our best shot is going to be in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then a follow-up on beef.
If you could give us color on the first quarter profits do you expect them to be in the normalized range half of normal? Just kind of give us some more color on where you think beef profitability is in the first quarter and how you expect that to progress as the year goes forward.
Well let me say that they won't be as strong as they were in Q4 and we're just half way not even quite halfway through the quarter and we're starting to see the margin picture change relative to last several weeks.
So I'm going to leave it at that and not get that quantified.
But I feel pretty strong that we'll come through this first quarter very well and the market will correct.
And then we're going to start to see a fair amount of cattle availability as we come into January or February which generally works on our favor relative to managing the spread.
Next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on chicken again.
So did I hear you correctly? Your pounds are going to be down 6% for '12 was that right? No.
What I said was right now we're running down a little bit in excess of 6%.
So here's the way to frame that up.
We always take a detailed forward look of demand.
We spend a lot of energy looking at forward demand.
And so our production plans we think right now our team has done a great job getting us exactly where we need to be in light of the demand we see through the first say 4 to 6 months of calendar 2012.
As we move into Q1 we will be looking at the forward demand for the rest of our fiscal year and we will make any if any production decisions then.
But for us it's always about balancing our supply and demand to meet our customers' expectations of our business.
And currently the color I can add is we're down better than 6% in the current quarter versus where we were.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your expectation for 4% decline in production.
Can you give us a little color on that in terms of where that's coming from? Is that truly yours? Do you expect that to happen regardless of what happens with demand? And if production is down 4% which seems more than what other industry experts are saying I would think.
If that does happen do you think the industry would be profitable or will get to normalize profitability this year? I'm going to start that and then Jim may want to jump in and add a little bit of color.
First of all when we talk about the 4% number that is what we project the industry to be.
Obviously we're going to be a part of that.
I don't really want to try to project what the rest of the industry is going to do or what their profitability is going to be because I don't know their cost structure I don't know how they price their product.
So there's no chance I'm going to project what they're going to do.
I can tell you what we're going to do and I'll let Jim add some color.
We're going to balance our supply with what our view of demand is.
If anything we're going to be a little bit on the short side of that which gives us opportunity at times to buy parts that we need without necessarily having other parts that may or may not be the best value in the marketplace.
So that's going to be our strategy going forward and our team is very disciplined in looking at that forward demand and then matching our supply to get there.
And when we get off-base a little bit we quickly react because it's important to us to keep that supply and demand balance.
Yes.
I think you always got to -- when we give a number it's always against our fiscal period.
So I looked at a composite of different independent estimates and this current Q1 I know of Dec of '11 which is our Q1 is the strongest decline.
So a number of them on average are around 5.5% and then as you move into calendar '12 that's where you probably say it's a little less because you'll start to see it start to change with Jan Feb March in the high 3s and then April May June 3.
So you end up in a scenario where you sink that all back up with a variety of independent forecasters on average of 4% against our fiscal year.
With the strong end being right now and I'd know this period.
Research Division</strong> Right and then just a follow-up there on price realization for you guys especially last 3 quarters based on my numbers has been exceptional which is why it seems like you're doing much better than the industry.
So you're starting off pricewise price per pound much better than the industry in general.
How do you feel about price realization in '12? I mean give us some numbers here if you can.
I mean can you put some numbers around the price realization efficiency numbers that you've talked about in the past? I mean how much are you expecting to benefit from just pure pricing yield efficiencies cost programs et cetera? Can you give us some numbers so we can put that into context with the increase in grain cost and think about where profitability could end up? I can't talk about the principles behind what we do.
Obviously it's important to us to be a cost leader in our industry in every segment that we participate.
We have a very diverse portfolio of products.
And so it's pretty hard to -- without going into a tremendous amount of detail by bird class exactly what we expect to do and I don't think that's probably in our best interest on the call.
So what we can say is this we continue to move our mix up the value chain.
We always want to try to add value to our customers business and to try to add value to our product mix.
We will continue to do that.
We believe that we lead the industry in quality service and certainly innovative capabilities and we believe that we bring a different value proposition to our customers.
And then we get paid for that.
So I think you'll continue to see that as part of the spread.
In each of the commodity type businesses that we're in we've we controlled our production to the point that we don't have a lot of excess sales in the marketplace that are a drag on our pricing structure.
So that's a huge advantage to being balance in terms of our supply and demand.
When you get into those situations where you're supply outstrips your demand that's when you have excess product that you have to sell in commodity markets which hurts your pricing structure.
So if you start putting all those pieces together I think you see and obviously you have the difference between Tyson and others.
And we continue to remain very disciplined in our go-to-market strategy and how we bring value to our customers in each one of the segments.
Research Division</strong> So what would it take for you guys to -- if it was up to you right? So what would it take for you to come out and say you're going to be in the normalized range and margins for chicken? What would have to change today for you to feel more confident about being within a normalized range in a reasonably short term? Like what would you have to see change for you to feel more comfortable about that? I'd say move the calendar forward about 3 months or so and let us get it a little deeper into the fiscal year and we'll be a lot more confident about what we can say about when certain events will happen.
In terms of our business model I don't think there's anything that needs to change.
And I think certainly our business team is focused on getting back to normalized margins as absolutely as fast as they can.
And I think they're doing everything they can do to get there as quick as they can and we'll get there.
But I think if you just look again at the market fundamentals versus the supply pull back you start to see some supportive pricing.
And overall again the big picture says domestic availability of all proteins is declining partly from export and production.
That's generally supportive of pricing.
And you have to factor in the economy and factor that.
How fast can it go that's anybody's prediction.
The next question Christina McGlone Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Jim I just wanted to dig into beef a little more.
Can you explain what we're seeing in terms of the north-south differential and how does that impact Tyson.
And if you're paying more for your northern cattle are you also getting more for the beef from that cattle? And then something you said worried me a little when you said the fact that you were getting a lot of cattle and feedlots and then usually they come out at lighter weights and when they're marketed there's more volatility and you might not match demand.
How do we think about that kind of idea when we're modeling? Well that's exactly why I put that in because your models will get a little bit different simply because you don't have some of the normal placement patterns that have occurred in the past which is a clear observation as the southern plains didn't have good forage so the cattle left.
We pasture and pasture and went into feedlots and backgrounding.
But the North-South spread is always a factor that always messes up your models because you don't get that granular in the way you forecast beef margins within regions.
Our job basically we're nicely dispersed between the North and the South.
Some of our competition has plants that are more concentrated in the South or some in the north.
We have a good mix of the north-south plants close to the feedlots.
And our job is always to try to maximize the revenue and try to manage that spread.
But it does make it difficult for you to model in that regard.
So I don't expect to have any major shortages in any of the regions that we have plants because I think the cattle supply when they come out will be fine.
And I know that cattle feeders will try to really balance that placement up and actually try to hit the same type of end-put weights that they have historically and try to manage to hit the typical seasonal demand patterns.
It makes it more challenging when calves go in the feedlots versus yearlings.
So it's a comment just basically driven to tip you off I guess that the model sometimes will change around because we've had something very unusual with the drought in the southern plains.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess when you think about '12 and you talked about margins within normalized for beef.
But as we close out calendar '12 so calendar not fiscal are we in a very tight situation where we're going to see overcapacity in beef processing? And then maybe also if you could speak to the fact that the WTO has said that COOL is kind of a violation of agreements.
Does that help? Do you think there'll be any changes on the origin of labeling front? Let me address the end of calendar '12.
Again that's why I went through and pointed out the fact that even though some people will say the beef cow process or slaughter is up 4% when you put it in to real perspective against 31.4 million beef cows and 9.2 million dairy cows that accelerated decline is not really appreciably accelerated and there were people who were thinking that the drought again in the southern plains had really accelerated the liquidation of the beef cowherd and when I really went back and analyzed those numbers it's up but not as much and it's not as catastrophic as one would think.
The other key component is feeder cattle imports were 180 000.
That easily offset a good number of the decline that we saw in the beef cow herd throughout the last couple of years.
Now as that relates to country of origin labeling if that gets resolved and everything went back to normal what you'll actually see probably is the potential for more imported feeder cattle out of both Canada and Mexico.
And that won't impact again calendar '12 as much as it will impact potentially '13.
But the reason I put all those numbers in my prepared remarks is to really put it in to context.
Even though we've seen some slight increase in liquidation it's not what I'd call a major increase above and beyond what others have been forecasting into that 1% line.
So I'm not pessimistic that we're going to have a problem having extreme overcapacity in the beef processing industry.
And I always got to remind everybody that we did take about 2 million head of slaughter capacity out several years ago and that balance against where our plants located is in pretty good balance.
Okay.
Next question from Robert Moskow Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Will sort of in for Rob.
I wanted to talk a little bit about your international operations.
You're investing your CapEx there adding a second shift in Brazil you bought out your partner in China.
What is the margin situation in both those areas for you? And what is your outlook for demand? Both of those businesses are pretty young and so the margin structure is on the light side of what we will produce in the future.
As we look at demand we feel very good about demand in both countries.
Let's talk about Brazil here quickly.
We have over the last year or so kind of decided at least for the foreseeable future what our mix will be between international and domestic volume.
And we've added enough capabilities to be able to provide the diversity within our product portfolio offering to be able to capitalize on some growth both domestically and internationally.
So we really feel good about that business.
All we need is time.
We got a great team down there they've doing a great job.
So we feel very confident that every pound that we add when we second shift.
We've got grower base coming along behind us -- or actually in front of us to be able to produce that.
And so we feel very confident we'll be able to move that at the percentage that we want to both in the domestic and the international markets.
So quickly shifting to China a great opportunity there.
We've got a great customer base in China.
We're building a very solid team to execute not only our operating but also our selling strategies there.
We're moving toward a company-owned company-controlled live production model.
We have a few company farms now that the birds that we have seen produced in those company farms are outstanding.
We love our cost position there and we feel very good about our model going forward.
It's a bit more capital intensive but the efficiencies that we're seeing are making that the way to go.
And it helps in terms of speed too a little bit.
Around getting our footprint as large as we can as fast as we can.
When we get a build-out and what we currently have available to us our footprint will be about 3.5 3 million head a week that'll be in 2014.
And I would tell you by the time we get there we would expect to have normalized returns in that business.
So we feel very good about our opportunities internationally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Donnie can you talk a little bit about what the customer mix looks like in China for you guys? I really figured your plan is...
Simply put both food service QSR and a retail base.
So you need a very fairly broad portfolio to be able to spread your product mix out appropriately.
And so we feel really good about our customer mix.
I really don't want to get into detailed customer names but just suffice it to say food service QSRs a few other food service customers and a good mix of retail customers.
Next question Christine McCracken Cleveland Research.
Jim real quickly.
You had suggested that you aren't seeing any signs of expansion I think.
I'm just curious with cow calf returns where they are today do you expect to see that? Especially in the North where this guy should have the capacity to do so? Yes I would -- I went back and I looked up the heifer percentage of the fed steer and heifer kill slaughter numbers.
And it's been running right at this 37.4% 37.2% 37.5% about the last 4 years.
So we'll be really watching that carefully because I would expect with the returns that outside of kind of the drought affected regions that there would be expansion.
and I think that's also why you didn't see the beef cow liquidation when you looked at -- the southern plains it would have been fairly expansive for that region.
But the other regions had plenty of grass and all the profit signals probably offset that number to a great degree.
But that's the key number we're watching.
It's just the percentage of heifers and the total kill to see if it drops into the low 30% and will start to see that expansion.
We haven't really seen any meaningful expansion for about 4 to 5 years actually.
And '07 would have been kind of that timeframe maybe the one we saw a little bit of moderate expansion.
Just a follow-up then.
On the choice select spread being so wide now I'd assume that the incentive there is to produce more choice cattle.
I'm curious if you're changing your grid at all to incentivize producers.
Are you seeing any move toward that and what that might mean for availability as we head into the next year? Our grid is also reflective of what the current choice select spread and premium programs et cetera which is -- the term used in the industry is usually the cleanup costs reflects that component.
And the choice or select spread did widen here which is a lot of people thought might have been a decrease in grading but when again you look at the peers statistics the percentage choice cattle hadn't really materially changed year-over-year with the choice select spread a year ago was much lower.
So what we're probably seeing here is perhaps that food service fine dining and steakhouse demand on consumption might be up.
We might be seeing a combination of select demand for metals being soft because when you look at where the choice select spread differential is it's not unusual that it's in the middle meats but we've seen really widened price spreads between particularly PISMOs rib eyes and strips and the choice of select offering which suggest that we get food service consumption increasing slightly.
But we have not really seen these types of spreads for a number of years.
So the market will probably do its job again and overtime make that correction retailers or some other end users shifting to the value side on the select and they're offering.
So the answer to your question our grids always adjusts all constantly to what that choice select spread is doing.
Next question Tim Ramey D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Donnie wondering if your investment in China looks like it might have any kind of ancillary benefits in terms of greater ability to export to U.S.
production there.
Tim I'm going to say probably not.
Today if you combine the antidumping duty and the countervailing duty that exists between the U.S.
and exports of chicken into China it's like 63%.
And even hey if we started a WTO action today it would I'd tell you take 2 3 years to change that.
So I really don't see that affecting much in terms of us being able to -- as a matter of fact you might go the other way.
So if we're not going to be able to ship it from the U.S.
into China let's just go over to China and grow it there.
We're certainly not banking on that.
Our whole focus is running a real competitive Chinese production model.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just listening to your comments about July and weaker Fourth of July and keeping inventories lean.
It sounds like you might have gotten crossways on inventories and we're carrying too much into the Fourth of July holiday.
Is that a fair interpretation of...
It was.
Hey this may be way more detailed and I know we're going a little long but let me try to add a little color.
So let's go back to just before Easter.
When we were in the Lenten season demand was really really really strong.
And so if you look at chicken by the time you start setting more eggs you get them through the hatchery you get them into the field growing out and then produce them and have them ready in inventory depending on the type of mix you got you've really got like 12 weeks worth of production that you've made in that decision.
And so if you go to say mid-March you got mid-April mid-May mid-June.
And so based on the signal we got in mid-March we made production decisions that had a lot of meat coming at us just before the Fourth of July.
If you'll remember Memorial Day was less than impressive and I'm telling you Fourth of July was just nothing to write home about.
And so once we saw that Fourth of July was pretty disappointing man we through the brakes on and we started backing up.
And hey unfortunately commodity prices you got a high feed component of your live cost.
But when you're backing out of production you're absorbing a lot of cost early.
And so that just made July just a really ugly month but we did pull back hard on inventory.
Our inventory position through the quarter got cleared up too.
I tell you when we ended the fiscal year hey our inventory position is what I like to call the manageable minimum.
And so we are doing a great job servicing our customer but we're not carrying a lot of excess inventory to be able to do that it's putting a lot of pressure on our logistics resources it putting a lot of pressure on our plant resources but they have stepped up to the challenge and done a great job of taking care of our customer.
So that's kind of the whole picture Tim.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more quick one.
You've been talking about feed conversion.
I know you experimented with betain versus choline chloride I don't if you've moved back to going choline chloride.
But is there anything you can tell us about kind of the feed ration that is specifically having an impact? Nope.
Listen that's all really proprietary stuff and there's 0 chance you're going to get any details honestly on how we're feeding our chicken.
I appreciate the offer it just ain't happening.
The next question from Ken Zaslow BMO Capital Markets.
Just 2 bigger picture questions.
For the year Donnie you've always been saying roughly around $2.
It sounds like you're actually more optimistic in terms of saying in excess of $2.
Can you talk about what the change of language was about? Yes.
Well listen we're very optimistic about our business.
Over the last couple of years we've done a lot to change our mix we've done a ton in our operating efficiency.
By the way let me mention this.
This past year we were talking about $200 million in operating efficiencies that we would garner and we did.
And still view that going into 2012 we have another $125 million or so in operating efficiencies that we believe that we will achieve in our poultry business.
And so when you put all that together with the kind of the last 2 years we've had I'm very optimistic about our future.
Now hey it's still early for us to be add any more detail than that.
But...
Research Division</strong> But what was the change? I mean you've been saying around $2 and your language changed to in excess of $2.
So I'm assuming something -- was it just internal improvements or is it marketing conditions that made you get a little bit more positive.
It's all of it.
Our Beef and Pork businesses are performing very very well.
Our Prepared Foods business has weathered the storm really for the amount of pricing that we were able to achieve to cover the raw material inputs our Prepared Foods businesses has done very well.
We've got a bead on a part of that business it's probably underperformed and we've got a solid action plan to improve that part of the business.
And then when you look at chicken we're seeing the benefit of some of the things that we've been doing in the past that just have us operating that business well.
If you look at industry fundamentals we've got a much better environment we feel that we're operating into and feel pretty solid about our chances.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So my second question just a little bit longer-term.
Look for the last -- 2012 comes in near where you're talking about -- you'll have 3 years in a row in that $2 to $2-plus range.
You're starting to spend aggressively again on CapEx.
Is there an expectation that you guys could actually in it 2013 and '14 start to develop a growth model where EPS can grow at a certain rate? And is it depending on market conditions CapEx? Can you talk about the potential for you to actually grow earnings in 2013 which clearly would be somewhat contrary to the market expectations.
But can you talk about that? Yes.
Hey that is absolutely the plan.
As we continue to improve our business I think one of the things that we've proved in 2011 is that our multi-protein multi-channel multinational business model gives us a bit of distinction and a little bit of differentiation in the marketplace.
And we intend to take all of the opportunities that that model provides us and be able to capitalize on that.
So we've got opportunities in front of us in value added poultry we've got opportunities in front of us in our Prepared's foods business.
Some of it is broadening the product portfolio.
But some of it is broadening the channels.
We've got great opportunities in front of us in Brazil and in China.
So yes as I look forward part of what we needed to do in '10 and '11 was to stabilize this business and get it turned around.
And get some operational efficiencies in place so that we could use that as a really strong platform to launch off of into the future.
And we do believe the growth opportunities in front of us are meaningful and particularly the earnings opportunities in front of us are meaningful.
Research Division</strong> So what would you say -- I mean if I was to say 2013.
What would be the incremental contribution? Where would the incremental contributions come from in '13 relative to '12? I can't.
Way way way too early.
Hey I'm trying not to get too far ahead of you on explaining excess of $2 in 2012.
I'm...
Research Division</strong> No no.
I'm not looking for an EPS number but it is it in Brazil? You're going to spend $800 million this year I think $600-something million in the last year in CapEx.
Do start to assign a return on that that we expect? Is it Brazil? Is it China? Is it improvement in fundamental? Like what is it that gets you to growth? I'm not asking for the actual quantification.
Have you kind of -- give us some sort of growth trajectory out besides 2012.
Absolutely.
So we built a pretty good foundation for ourselves internationally.
And we will continue now to add production in our international businesses about as fast as we can.
Our international team has done a great job of getting these new start-ups underneath us to the point to where we can now add incremental volume to those businesses and have it sold in the right place and improve our margins along the way.
So we're at the point now to where when we add incremental volume it adds incremental return.
That's where we needed to get.
If you look at the rest of our portfolio adding value to the raw materials that we produce is a huge huge platform for us to grow in.
The 2 things that we have that we can leverage is raw materials and relationships and we intend to leverage those into the future across the broad portfolio of our business both in value-added poultry in our Prepared Foods business taking our Beef and Pork raw materials and adding value to those moving those up the value stream putting them into new channels expanding our customer offerings.
So I think what you're going to see is a very balanced approach to us growing our whole portfolio across the board as we move forward.
Next question Jeff Farmer Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Recognizing the time I'll just be brief with this one.
Just a quick modeling question.
Looks like your absolute G&amp;A dollars actually fell in fiscal '11.
As you look forward to FY '12 what's the expectation there? Probably about flat.
I'll be honest with you I look at it more as a percent of net sales.
And I think we finished the year at around 2.8% of net sales and we'll be in about that ballpark.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up along the international discussion.
Revenues pushing well actually it's more than 16% -- or international is more than 16% of your consolidated revenue right now.
So can you provide any type of margin number on that revenue to date? And as you move forward do you expect that margin to improve quickly? I realized there's a lot of start-up investments in Brazil and China et cetera.
But any color on the margin picture on that full bucket of international revenue in FY '11 and what you're looking for in FY '12 would be helpful.
I appreciate that.
The only color that I can really add at this time is at this point it's not I would say a significant portion of what you see.
But certainly over time we expect it to improve incrementally as we grow the business and it will become more and more significant to our results.
So that's about all the clarity I can add right now.
Next question Ryan Oksenhendler Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Hey I'm sorry if I missed this I jumped on the call late.
But did you give a number for what you think grain or feeding ingredients will be up year-over-year in fiscal '12? I don't think we did.
No.
Research Division</strong> Can you? No I think all I would be comfortable saying at this point because we're pretty close to the market now and which I feel very comfortable with.
I would suspect that grain cost in 2012 would be at or above what we saw in '11.
And Ryan the real emphasis of that is if you just go back to Q1 well our Q1 which would be calendar Q4 of last year.
Corn futures for example we're in the $4 $4.25 $4.50 somewhere in that neighborhood and moving up through the quarter.
And hey we are at new crop and we're at $6 plus.
So we're $1.50 or so starting the year higher than we were a year ago.
So it just stands to reason that we're going to have incremental increases in our cost of corn soybean meal and other inputs by the way of going into next year.
Which accents our need to get our pricing improvements in order to get paid for those higher raw materials.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly I guess on the pricing side you sounded a little skeptical about retail demand I guess maybe depending on where pricing goes it looks like for the Georgia Dock we're rubbing up against $0.90 a pound here.
Was I reading that right? At what point do you think demand starts to drop off at the retail level? I can't really pick it based on a particular market price.
But I can say this.
We're holding unemployment around 9% or so.
My GDP number for '12 is somewhere about 1.5% or so.
So I'm not looking for a robust recovery in the economy.
It just stands to reason that if more and more price gets passed along to the consumer that there's an opportunity for them to back off.
Now the good news is that we keep a very close eye on forward demand and our strategy is if anything to be a little short against that demand so that we don't get caught.
Let's say like we did in July with too much inventory or maybe not too much inventory but excess of what we would have would have liked have at the time and excess production.
So we're going to keep this thing in check and we've got I think a very good eye on what our forward view of demand is.
So let me just close up if we can.
Hey I want to emphasize again how important I think our multi-protein multi-channel multinational business model is.
When you combine that with our cost capital structure and frankly what I think is the best is the best team in the business Tyson is uniquely differentiated from our competitors and I think we're poised to grow in 2012 and beyond.
Tyson Foods is a protein company with the widest variety of products to sell and the most channels to the broadest base of customers here in the U.S.
and around the world.
Our diversification gives us options and opportunities.
We intend to make the most of them.
So thanks for your interest in our company and have a great day.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
That does conclude the conference today.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jon Kathol.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods Conference call for the second quarter of our 2012 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Our second quarter earnings were $0.44 a share compared to $0.42 in the second quarter of 2011.
Operating income was $302 million which was about flat to Q2 last year.
Sales were up 3.4% versus Q2 a year ago at $8.3 billion.
The Pork segment was again above its normalized range with an 8.4% operating margin.
Prepared Foods was near the top end of its normalized range with a 5.5% margin and our Chicken segment returned to normalized earnings sooner than expected with a 5% return on sales in the second quarter.
Beef was challenging again this quarter finishing around breakeven.
And Jim will speak to what happened there in his remarks.
We're now halfway through what will likely be our third consecutive year of solid earnings.
The team is running the business well by focusing on our customers and executing on key performance indicators.
We continue improving production efficiencies and management systems and we're getting a solid return on the capital we've invested in recent years.
The work we've done internally is paying off and now we're beginning to build on that for the long-term success and growth.
Externally key economic indicators continue to recover slowly.
Consumers' views about current conditions improved in February and spending jumped to its highest level in 7 months however consumer confidence pulled back slightly in March.
Consumers appear to be cautious about the economy but still hopeful.
The national gasoline price average fell in April from its recent highs of about $3.92 a gallon to the current average price of about $3.75 a gallon.
The energy department however still says fuel prices will peak in May at about $4.
Taking all these economic indicators into account we're cautiously optimistic that the worst is over for the food service industry.
Food service dollar sales increased 6% in the first calendar quarter of 2012 versus the same quarter last year.
Quick-service restaurant segment continued showing growth with consumer spending up 3%.
Full-service is showing dollar growth as well with spending up 10%.
Again this is sales growth driven primarily by inflation not necessarily volume growth.
Major restaurant chains are leading the recovery although it likely continues to be at the expense of independents which are still struggling.
NPD-CREST reports also show a bright spot.
Traffic to commercial restaurants increased by 1.7% end this Jan-Feb quarter.
This was the strongest gain since the summer of 2007.
The major chains realized 4% traffic growth with growth coming from the QSR segment at 4% and casual dining segment at 1%.
Small change were flat and independents continue to lose traffic down 2%.
Of course Tyson partners with many of the chains that are growing faster than the industry average providing us an opportunity to outperform the industry in terms of average volume growth.
As Technomic pointed out recently restaurant concepts in any segment of the industry can beat the odds on sales growth but they must offer value convenience a differentiation that makes them highly memorable and alignment with what consumers are seeking in away-from-home dining.
Our R&amp;D resources have us well positioned to help our customers in those areas.
There's good news on many of the key menu categories.
Morning meal traffic has been up and servings of breakfast sandwiches that include sausage bacon chicken and steak are growing.
Chicken nuggets chicken sandwiches wings meatball sandwiches and bone-in chicken also a growth during the period.
And we're expecting a significant amount of chicken features at food service this summer especially in the major QSR change.
Now the retail channel for the 13-week period ending March 31 the Perishable Group reported the volume of fresh meat sold at retail down about 4% versus the same period a year ago driven by higher retails.
Beef pounds were down 9% ground beef was down 7% pork was down nearly 3% and chicken was about flat.
ROI data show that the bacon and frozen strips and cubes category grew during the 13 weeks ending March 18 but other frozen and refrigerated category volumes declined versus a year ago.
Tyson still commands the dominant share in the frozen breaded chicken category and we grew share in Q2 in the individually frozen segment.
The Tyson brand is the market leader in value-added poultry and has a track record of driving consistent profitable growth.
Innovative new products to solve problems and deliver values to consumers continue to be the key.
Some of the new products we're introducing include Tyson whole grain chicken chunks and Tyson Stuffed Mini Bread Bowls in the grocery channel along with Tyson Grilled Chicken Tenderloins in the club store channel.
Our case-ready beef and pork rib is valued-up proteins by pairing beef pork and chicken with fresh vegetables seasonings and sauces to create healthy convenient meal solutions.
This product line has seen double-digit growth this year.
Turning to our international business we're making progress on the growth of our operations in China where we're placing an emphasis on food safety quality and supply chain integrity as we grow that business.
Our startup plan in Jiangsu achieved full production on the first shift in April and we're on plan in regards to our food housing construction plans.
Our operations in Brazil aren't at the level we'd like at this point but we're working on upgrading our mix getting costs down through automation and filling up our plants.
However we are pleased with the progress and the efficiencies we're gaining as we double shift these plants.
I'll wrap up by saying that we still believe we have the potential for $2 a share for the year especially considering the pricing support we should get from overall declining domestic availability.
Now it won't be easy considering beef results in the first half of the year but beef is rebounding and our other segments continue to do well pertaining another good year.
Again this demonstrates exactly why I continue to believe that our multi-protein multichannel multinational business is the right way for Tyson Foods to deliver long-term sustainable earnings.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a review of our segment results followed by Dennis with the financial report.
Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
With $115 million in operating income and a return on sales of 8.4% the Pork segment again performed above its normalized range of 6% to 8%.
We have accomplished this by staying focused on operating efficiency product quality and yields mix management customer service and taking care of our team members while moving commodity products up the value chain.
The Pork segment is currently experiencing some domestic demand pressure in hams bellies and trimmings.
Exports have remained strong in calendar '12 year-over-year.
We do expect to see hog supplies up 1% to 2% year-over-year for the balance of our fiscal year.
While our Pork margin performance should remain strong through the second half of the year we do not expect it to be at the levels we achieved in the first 6 months.
Our Prepared Foods segment with $44 million in operating income and 5.5% operating margin again produced returns in the upper end of its 4% to 6% normalized range.
These results reflect improvements in pricing and mix.
Growing our Prepared Foods business remains a key growth avenue for the company.
For example today we're opening our state-of-the-art expansion at our Council Bluffs Iowa pepperoni plant.
We will continue to look for opportunities to acquire or build new assets to expand in several other categories or to increase capacity in existing categories.
Recovery in the Chicken segment occurred faster than we expected.
As we return to our normalized operating margin range of 5% to 7% in the second quarter Chicken posted a 5% return on sales with $145 million in operating income after absorbing $65 million in additional feed costs versus Q2 last year.
Our team has done a very good job of managing price to cover inputs and we're expecting pricing to remain strong as we have kept our inventories in line.
Meanwhile the industry as a whole has reduced production pounds by 4% to 6% year-over-year.
To help keep our production balanced we bought chicken on the open market rather than growing all the birds we needed.
We won't grow a bird solely for the part in the highest demand because we have to sell the entire bird.
Grow versus buy is a strategy we look at continually based on input costs revenue demand forecast and the needs of our customers.
We've been very methodical in our approach but we can and will add production when long-term demand warrants and we'll use our locations where the cost of production is most competitive.
In the second half of the year we expect our Chicken segment to be in the normalized range and we are still on track to meet $125 million operational efficiency target for fiscal '12.
And finally let's look at the Beef segment which essentially broke even for the quarter.
The fact we are able to come this close to making money in the second quarter demonstrates that we have a strong well-managed business.
The team did a good job of executing in the areas they could control and competed well in other areas.
In Q1 supply balance was a problem in Q2 it was the demand issue.
Since our last call the industry appeared to be headed toward a recovery and we briefly returned to normalized margins in late February and early March.
Then the unwarranted controversy over lean finely textured beef temporarily destroyed demand for ground beef and beef in general virtually overnight.
This caused a rapid decline of over $120 per head over a 4-week period.
Personally I don't recall a revenue decline that steep.
Cattle price is corrected but not at the same rate which did cause extreme margin compression in March and early April.
In a commodity spread business raw material prices ultimately adjust to the revenue and forward revenue projections and we're seeing that correction occur.
Industry slaughter in Q2 versus a year ago was down 6% and Tyson was down more than that so we gave up market share in an effort to manage our margins.
We believe the revenue-to-cattle cost relationship has the potential to realign to the normalized profitability as cattle supplies appear to be adequate from May to early fall.
Although we're taking a cautious approach to beef demand other fundamentals would suggest optimism.
We're headed into our seasonally strong demand period.
The reduced steer and heifer slaughter in our Q2 plus the continued reduction in April would indicate more-than-anticipated supplies in May and beyond.
Some analysts are projecting fed steer and heifer availability to be much higher than originally anticipated in most feeding regions.
Longer term it looks like we could be on the initial stages of the herd rebuilding as beef cost slaughter is down and some heifer retention appears to be taking place.
This will not impact the remainder of our fiscal '12 but the extent of heifer retention will influence the fed supplies into 2013 and beyond.
We have seen the shift to more cattle being fed in a 1 000-head-plus feedlots which is generally favorable to our plant locations.
In closing I'd like to thank our team members for staying focused on the long-term objectives of managing total revenue and costs while also managing through the near-term ups and downs.
I'll now turn it over to Dennis for the financial report.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As Donnie mentioned in his remarks we reported Q2 earnings of $0.44 per share.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months was 14.4%.
Capital expenditures were $162 million for the quarter and totaled $344 million for the first 6 months of fiscal 2012.
We continue to invest in numerous capital projects for our domestic and foreign operations.
These projects will result in improved productive capabilities and drive labor efficiencies improve yields and sales mix.
Our operating cash flow for the first 6 months remains strong at $454 million.
Including cash of more than $700 million net debt was just under $1.5 billion.
Total liquidity was $1.7 billion well above our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt remained at $2.2 billion.
Gross debt-to-EBITDA for the last 12 months was 1.4x.
On a net debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 1.0x.
During the second quarter we acquired 3.6 million shares for $70 million under our share repurchase program.
Over the past 4 quarters we have repurchased 15.1 million shares since we reactivated this program representing a reduction of about 4% of our outstanding shares.
Over time we expect to continue repurchasing shares.
Last week our board expanded the share repurchase authorization by 35 million shares increasing the total remaining authorization to just over 42 million shares.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the second quarter was 373 million.
The dilutive share effect totaling $5 million for options and $4 million for convertible bonds will fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
Our effective tax rate for Q2 was 35.3%.
So here is an update on the outlook for fiscal 2012.
Revenues are expected to approximate $34 billion driven largely by raw material price increases and continued tight domestic protein availability.
We expect net interest expense to be approximately $190 million down $41 million from fiscal 2011.
The effective tax rate should be about 36%.
CapEx should be around $800 million to $850 million.
This reflects continued spending on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of our domestic and foreign operations while also continuing to build out our foreign businesses especially in China.
In closing our Q2 results continue to demonstrate that our diversified business model works.
We are pleased to see our Chicken business return to its normalized range while our Pork and Prepared Foods segments continue to operate in or above their normalized rages.
Although our Beef segment faced volatile market conditions in a reduction in demand for Beef products from factors out of our control we delivered solid results as a whole.
As we have mentioned before while it is great when all 4 segments are within their normalized ranges it's not a requirement in order to perform well as a company.
We will continue focusing on the areas of our business we control and remain confident we will provide strong results for a third consecutive year.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll ask the operator to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jim unless I missed it you gave a little bit of an outlook on how you expected margins to look on every segment but Beef.
Did I miss something there or was that an intentional omission? I thought Donnie had actually had it in his remarks but Beef margins have in the last couple of weeks turned nicely.
And if I replay it back into Q2 we had those Beef margins turn where the relationship of revenue to cattle costs was back in line kind of through February or mid part of February and early March and then they really corrected after the LFTB controversy hit where we saw that really rapid decline in Beef wholesale prices.
Again I said that was probably steeper than I can ever recall at $120 a head.
Now if we looked forward with they -- have come back in the last couple of weeks it took a while for that correction.
And we do see adequate supplies because you have to look back.
The industry has really processed dramatically fewer animals through -- January through March.
That also happened in April.
And we also looked back in October through December we processed considerably fewer.
Against my calculation in that first 6 months we're seeing 700 000 fewer head processed which tells me that the supply should be very adequate for the balance of this year.
And the key will be in margins if we expect to be able to hold on to this revenue to cattle cost relationship going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a quick housekeeping Should -- I mean I'm surprised that the earnings presentation doesn't say $0.45.
It looks like we were really $0.415 for the first quarter I think or -- anyway the bottom line is that we rounded down for 2 quarters in a row.
Sorry to nitpick on that but...
You're right Tim.
We're being conservative on that.
Our next question is from Christine McCracken from Cleveland Research.
Nice job on the quarter especially given everything they keep throwing at you.
In any case Jim you mentioned on the Beef side that your slaughter volumes were down more than the industry.
And it's obviously already at pretty low levels.
I'm just wondering as you look into maybe a little beyond the end of your fiscal year and looking at the retention that we're seeing on the heifer side are you expecting to be able to manage through that continued kind of decline in slaughter volumes as things maybe tighten up with heifers and then maybe tighter cattle supplies as you head in fiscal '13? Well fiscal '13 as you know fed steer and heifer supply will really -- the base number on that was 2011 calf crop which was still 35.7.
We didn't see that decline will be this year's calf crop in 2012.
And typically you roundabout a 2-year lag so about 73%.
If heifer retentions since we usually process about 9.5 million to 10 million heifers we could see 400 000 to 500 000 come out of the 2013 number.
But again you have to look at the fact that the feeder cattle imports are also running more than they were a year ago.
And what we've seen is the shift in because basically the crush has been very negative.
So you've seen less cattle being placed in the smaller feedlots which again is favorable to most of our locations that sit where there's very dense feedlots.
So the supply will tighten and then we'll have to see as this calf crop in 2012 how much heifer retention's there.
You have seen fewer beef cows processed and you've got a little bit of a conflicting message on the heifer retention when you look at the April on feed number which actually shows 4% over.
So I would expect though that we'll see heifer retentions start to rebound as we go through the year if we have adequate moisture in those cow states.
So is it your expectation then that feeder cattle imports will continue to be at these levels because it looks like the cattle supplies in Mexico and Canada are getting a little tighter? Well I'm looking at the year-over-year number which is roughly in the last 6 months running about 100 000.
And so as their cow herds would decline obviously we'd see less but the feeder cattle price in the U.S.
has been very supportive to pull those cows out of Canada and Mexico.
Our next question is from Heather Jones with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is for Beef and Pork.
Since Q1 of your fiscal '10 we've seen Tyson outpace hedgers at just calculation of industry margins by about 15 a head in Pork and 55 to 65 a head in Beef and there's been about -- there's been an upward bias to your trend.
I guess my question is what 2 to 3 factors are most critical in driving that out-performance? And more importantly do you believe there's an opportunity to widen that further in a significant way say 5 to 10 a head? Well you've put me on a spot when you quantitated the second part of that question.
Research Division</strong> I was trying to corner you into answering me.
I do think there's upside and that's what we work on everyday because we're looking at how to really value up the mix and then -- in fresh meat you really have to say that the bulk of those price quotes are on commodity or second value-added raw products.
Our whole thrust has always been to try to understand where we can add value to the customers by taking more bone more trim more case-ready trim more retail ready-trimmed sub-primals and we obviously charge so we look at a return on labor.
The industry will continue to evolve it has over a long period of time.
But with higher freight costs you're going to see I think a more rapid transformation to more value-added raw products.
And that's one of the ways that we've done that.
I think we will continue to see upside.
But the other 3 -- 2 to 3 factors that we really focused on some of it's location.
Our plants do sit where the livestock quantities are that gives us a freight advantage on the buy gives us a shrink advantage for yield.
And then we're looking again at -- always our efficiency and how we really manage the mix.
And another thing we do is really look at our pricing mechanism try to get as much on formula take the least amount of fixed forward selling risk that we can so there's a variety of things.
I know you don't like always the answer it's simple blocking and tackling on focused on basics.
But there's probably over 80 metrics that our teams really look at from a combination of plant efficiency labor efficiency yields mix value-added mixes pricing metrics.
We index ourselves every way that we possibly can and that's why we drive that differential.
Research Division</strong> The most important takeaway I should take from this is that you do think there's further upside to widen that out-performance? Our goal every quarter and every year is to add to that margin differential on the revenue.
Our job the way we look at our position in life and Beef and Pork is to add as much revenue to the product as we can because we do know that the revenue and the livestock cost will stay in a pretty good correlation for the most part over time and we want to maximize the revenue to the overall category.
Our next question is from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] reported a nice jump in boneless skinless breast prices last week and I know some of that's seasonal.
But their commentary about breasts was a little bit more constructive than it usually is.
And I've heard of some buyers looking for say 100 loads only able to get 60 or so is this what you're seeing in the boneless market too? And if so how sustainable of a trend into the summer do you think it will be? Ken this is Donnie.
It feels like that this firmness will probably continue a little bit longer maybe on even into the summer.
The thing we keep our eye on keep our eye on gas prices we keep an eye on the hopeful but sluggish economic recovery.
And I think that's probably got as much to do with it if anything and I'm not sure how accurately we can predict that.
But I can -- we can predict this.
Jim mentioned in his comments our buy versus growth strategy.
We've been able to buy -- we balance to the nearest whole bird increment and then buy the parts that we need.
A lot of that's been breast meat the meat's been available.
And I think as things firm up then there may be a little bit less meat available.
But frankly all that was kind of built into our plan as summer demand picked up.
So honestly it's working just like we expected it to and we feel really good about how that's going to play itself out for us this summer.
Research Division</strong> And then sticking with chicken and forgive me if you addressed this already but can you talk a little bit about your forward buying on beans.
I think the last time you spoke on hedging you mentioned you were fairly close to the market on grains.
But I didn't hear a whole lot about soybean meal and of course the price of that commodity has risen a lot.
Yes that's great question.
The South American production is down versus what we expected it a couple -- 3 months ago.
And then another factor in our DDGs a lot of the ethanol producers are pressed in those DDGs to get the corn oil out which is going into renewable fuels.
And that of course once you take the energy out of that its a pretty high -- the protein fiber ratio gets to the point that you really don't feed it in simple-stomach diets at near the ratio.
So that has caused I think an increase in feeding.
Meals shot up dramatically.
I think futures I didnt look this morning but late last week they're around 430 a ton.
We're about 4 to 5 weeks out something like that.
We stay pretty conservative and we're by the way about the same place in corn.
And so we do keep an eye on that.
We've got pretty decent bases coverage out through the summer so we feel pretty good about where we are.
And you've got to remember it looks like we've got a huge new crop coming.
Lots of uncertainty yet but you sure don't want to be too long going into that cliff period where you're going to start bringing a big new crop into the marketplace.
Your next question is from Christina McGlone with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Donnie first question if Chicken was better than you thought kind of one quarter earlier and achieved normalized margins why wouldn't it be better than normalized this summer? It could be.
There is certainly the possibility that it would.
As we look at our year and you look at all of the segments combined it looks like to us Pork's probably going to end the year at a little better than normalized.
Chicken can sure get there expect it to.
Again the only caution in my comment at all about Chicken is this economic recovery.
It looks like to us slaughter pounds are going to be down about 4% for the year so the environment is about right.
But the demand picture what's $4 gas going to do to disposable household income and what effect that might be it could -- might tame it down a little bit at the end.
In our press release we mentioned that Beef ought to be in the range in the fourth quarter and then our Prepared Foods business will be in the range.
So we feel good about how this summer is shaping up for us.
It ought to be a strong back half for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on Beef.
So fourth quarter is normalized even though margins right now appear to be very strong.
Was it just that April was so weak that that's why you can't be normalized in the third quarter and how should we think about the fiscal third quarter in Beef for margin? April was bad in the first couple of weeks before that price of cattle corrected down with that revenue decline and so that's the only caution on Q3.
But in the last couple of weeks we've been very pleased as that revenue livestock cost spread has widened.
Your next question is from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wasn't sure maybe I missed it but have you actually quantified what you expect feed costs to be up year-over-year this fiscal year if we were to spread or mark everything to market as of today? It's in the $250 million to $260 million category.
Somewhere -- that'll be a ballpark range.
I don't know if we specifically put that in the press release but it's going to be about that range.
Year-to-date it's $285 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you also mentioned in the press release that there's other non-feed costs that were inflationary in the period.
Can you just talk a little more about those? Yes a lot of your animal byproducts all of that trades off soybean meal a lot of ratios your feed fats for example are an energy source.
And as corn's trades up and down so do those sources.
So just when you put all that stuff together you're going to get -- the vast majority of that cost is going to be in corn and soy.
But fat animal byproducts and all of those things can -- will come to play too because they all feed off those 2 markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys have been speaking a bit more about as the turnaround restructuring story of Tyson is clearly full force and were talking a little bit more about growth opportunities in the future you spend more time talking about both the international opportunity and the value-add opportunity.
I was wondering if you were prepared to maybe put some more numbers around for example accretion potential in your China expansion or how you think things like the new additions in Prepared Foods that you guys mentioned today may ultimately add to earnings? Just a little more color around the real earnings opportunity there as we start to think longer-term? That's a great point.
Obviously our international and value-added segments are intended to be the acceleration for our growth a little bit on China.
Our model there is really around company-owned company-controlled live production and food safety and quality and supply chain integrity.
I think we said in the last quarter that by 2014 we'll be at about 3 million head a week there which hey is less than 10% I guess of what we're doing in the U.S.
But still that'll be the equivalent of 3 pretty decent sized U.S.
complexes.
We are seeing our entrants into those markets not only in the Food Service but also at retail.
We have Tyson-branded chicken at retail to-date which is small.
These plants are just start ups and we're just getting started but so far so good.
In value-added whether it's poultry or Prepared Foods we see a lot of opportunity.
We've done a lot in the last really a couple of years.
As you mentioned our quality our service and our innovation are really driving customer loyalty and we're getting paid for it.
And as our customers continue to struggle in this economy to find ways to drive traffic to their store or to their restaurant they're looking to us for that new product innovation and leadership a greater presence in value-added chicken whether it's breaded or non-cooked.
It's certainly in our future and there's lots of opportunity for us in Prepared Foods and all of the categories.
We've made great strides in the last couple of quarters in our lunchmeat business.
We've got great opportunities there.
We did all for a right brand dinner sausage in the marketplace off to a good start there.
We've got a new pepperoni plant and our folks are out currently very aggressively selling that product.
And so we've got tons of potential.
It's a little bit too early I think to start getting into a whole lot of detail specifically about what each one of those would do to earnings but the potential's there and you've certainly read us correctly that we're going to be aggressively growing our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last thing a little bit more noise about what Russia's WTO accession might mean.
Can you just give a view on what you think that might mean for exports of Pork and Chicken in particular? Russia does have a goal set this is Jim on trying to get self-sufficient in both Poultry and Pork production.
They won't be able to get quite caught up in Beef.
But as of late they've been strong importers of U.S.
Beef and U.S.
Pork.
So if they get into WTO I don't look at that -- that's all upside is the way I look at it.
But the key thing on what -- we always watch world production numbers and try to make sure that we're optimizing our sales relative to what's going on in the world and search for the highest revenue component that we can find.
Our next question is from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up a little bit on Beef.
So I noticed that your supply projection for your fiscal year for steer fed cattle supplies is down from what it was previously.
I'm guessing that's because of what you've seen so far this year and that just means that they'll be more available in your next fiscal year.
Can you talk a little bit about that Jim? Certainly can.
If we look at our fiscal year we were projecting in the 1% to 2%.
And if you look again at our first 7 months of our fiscal year we're down just short of 699 000 head year-over-year and I didn't adjust for any difference in days on that.
Which would imply that we should have more cattle available at the back half but the key is demand is very fragile to all of this supply.
So I don't expect that and we're watching it very carefully ourselves that we don't push more meat on the market than the market can absorb.
We try to make sure that we hold prices as best we can which would suggest that we'll push cattle past our fiscal year into our first quarter of 2013.
And the beauty of Beef and the supply chain is you do have a number of options in the way that you feed and manage them to try to hit different marketing windows.
And I'm thinking that we'll see more cattle pushed out into 2013.
The key number going forward again is what is 2012 calf crop that's 2014 supply.
So we'll buffer out as best we can and we're looking at that on a continual basis as well.
But it is very interesting that we process that many fewer head in the first 7 months of our fiscal year.
Research Division</strong> So Jim there's obviously a lot of negative headlines on Beef as you know.
And it seems like at least from the investor side there's concerns about '13.
Now you've said fiscal '13 you don't expect supplies to be a major issue.
Can you -- I mean when would you be sort of comfortable enough to say something about margins for fiscal '13? I mean I know it's a dynamic situation but assuming demand's relatively stable shouldn't we have a pretty good environment for Beef margins in '13? I thought we should have in '12 but it didn't work out that way in Q1 and Q2.
So we had a couple of strange issues one on last -- on Q1 the demand pushed for high-quality cattle pushed that spread up.
And then in Q2 when you have this much demand destruction for an unwarranted publicity on beef and it was surprising how much that put pressure on ground Beef and trim and then the rest of the cuts.
But absent any of those and I don't foresee anything more happening on Beef on the negative side from a demand standpoint other than basically the normal economic factors and the fact that I think we could push a few more fed steers and heifers out in front of us.
2013 could be a very decent year.
I'm more concerned about the out front year 2014 particularly with this year's calf crop and the cowherd that was down almost 1 million heads last year.
So that's the concern and then how much heifer retention will occur between now and then will take fed steers and heifers up.
So we've got a lot of moving parts to call before we can get too far out front on calling what we think will happen in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just on Chicken if I may just following up on some earlier question.
So has profitability been better each month throughout this year? I mean has it sort of been moving up pretty consistently? Yes.
I'm trying to think real quick...
Yes.
[indiscernible] Again it's improved every month.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So then just -- I mean youll caution you mentioned in terms of the possibility of margins being above normal at some point this year.
Your caution is just on demand right? But let's say demand is relatively stable to even up over the next 6 months I mean what kind of potential does Chicken have? You ought to feel good about it.
It's hard to say what this good demand mean and that kind of thing right? So I'm going to say we have the potential as the environment stands today to end the year in the range in Chicken.
And so what that's going to mean is a strong back half.
We had a 1.5 or so for Q1.
We've got a 5 for Q2 so do the math.
We've got to be well up into the upside of the range later.
We're facing some -- the possibilities of some pretty strong QSR chicken promotions this summer.
We think that's going to be advantageous to us.
So hey my cautionary note is what if anything is $4 gas going to do and that kind of thing.
But if that stuff doesn't happen we're positioned very well for the year.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one on Chicken more sort of medium to long-term.
One of your competitors always has made a bet on sort of exporting the back half of the Chicken while it seems like your positioned well even if some of the demand in the U.S.
increases on dark meat I mean it seems like your investing to add value to the back half of the Chicken even in the U.S.
I mean is that -- are you taking a bet either way I mean -- or are you going and you're just increasing flexibility in your plans to take advantage of either situation? I mean just trying to clarify.
Well yes we're taking a bet.
And we see there's an opportunity domestically to grow dark meat sales in lots of forms.
In areas that have had a traditional Beef and Pork meat bought whether it's a sausage pepperoni et cetera et cetera.
Dark meat chicken has a play there in lunchmeat there's obviously great opportunity there.
So yes we are definitely moving value-added dark meat domestically and internationally too.
I mean we keep an eye on all those markets constantly.
We have a very diverse selling program and lots of different geographies.
And we think that gives us the best opportunity to drive the best whole bird return for every bird we grow.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the retail market.
From what we see in our data retailers are really keeping the price of particularly Pork and Beef exceptionally high and really expanding out those retail margins and that's pressuring profitability of the protein producers.
And could you talk about what you expect demand going forward at retail if you expect pricing to moderate at all this summer? And how you expect those margins for processors and yourself in Pork and Beef to progress as the summer goes by? You're right.
Higher retails have dropped volume.
As I mentioned a little earlier in the call Beef down 9%.
Ground Beef of course a lot of that had to do with LFTB was down 7% Pork down 3% Chicken flat.
Frankly don't expect a whole lot of change.
We seem to be seeing a little bit of resistance at a composite cut out of about 90 plus.
So that may stem some pricing.
But as for us we have all that factored in and the margins that we're talking about and feel pretty good that at the end of the day we're going to be able to deliver above what we're saying.
Research Division</strong> You still think $2 is possible even with a tough retail environment? We've got work to do.
But yes it's possible.
One comment on retail is that last year as those wholesale prices inflated and they lagged pushing retail this year they're trying to get ahead of it.
It's as simple as the market's doing its job.
And the retailer has costs too and they have margin expectations.
So they're passing on the wholesale prices and if it decreases pounds then it adjust wholesale prices.
I mean that's the way the market works.
Yes the biggest pounds are down in the categories where we spread business.
So we adjust to that.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect livestocks in terms of cattle and hog prices to reflect that retail demand over the back half of your year? Repeat your question? Research Division</strong> So the back half of the year given where cattle prices are and hog prices are you think you can make your target margins and hit $2 despite the tough retail pricing environment? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my second question is you've announced an increase in your share repurchase program could you just share with us how aggressively you plan to execute that program and if you have any time horizons in mind for share repurchase? The reason we increased the authorization is we were down to 7 million shares and we acquired 15 million over the last 12 months so we needed to increase the authorization.
As far as the rate of purchases that really isn't going to change too much.
We're focused on our liquidity.
We need a lot of liquidity in our business.
And we also have a couple of big maturities coming up in the next 2 years.
So with $1.7 billion in liquidity that's more than sufficient to cover those maturities and run our business well.
So we'll just -- we'll let our liquidity determine how much we buy each quarter and we'll respond accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no time horizon that you've established? No.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I think everything has been asked and more.
So about the 2 I guess pieces of debt that are coming due can you give us the timing on that? And what do you think that might do to your interest expense? Do you expect to refinance? Can we look at fiscal '13 interest expense as going lower right now? Fiscal '13 interest expense will be pretty much the same.
There were -- 2 maturities or actually in the early part of fiscal 2014 so the big drop will come mostly -- a big jump will occur in '14 and then in '15 it'll be a really big jump of more than $100 million.
In terms of how we're going to handle it at some point in the future we'll fund part of it with a bond offering or some other kind of capital raise.
I'm not sure when we're going to do that since we have enough liquidity today.
Research Division</strong> All right.
It just seems like the way I model it you're going to have a lot of cash flow building up on your balance sheet -- a lot of cash building up and if you're going to wait all the way until '14.
So getting back to Farha's question is there any sense of urgency to -- is there any thought anyway to increasing the share repurchase authorization beyond $35 million? No at this point no.
But hey love having the options that great cash flow gives you.
We've announced I think very recently our expansion in Sedalia Missouri.
We've spent about just something shy of $50 million in Council Bluffs on our pepperoni dry sausage plant.
We've got great opportunity within our business to continue to grow and get into new categories.
And it gives us great resources to be able to grow our business.
Now we've also got great options in buying back stock debt reductions acquisitions when they come about all those type of things.
So what we're trying to do is give ourselves options and you can see that those options are piling up.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask one follow-up.
You mentioned lunchmeat and sausage there is a pure play domestic lunchmeat and sausage company that's going to have an analyst day coming up.
Why get into lunchmeat and sausage now? You've been in it before why the strategic push now? Well we have been for quite some time.
I mean when IBP bought up all of the businesses that made up Foodbrands America a lot of those businesses several plants were lunchmeat and sausage.
It's a good business a good category.
We have in our lunchmeat business we've not performed like we should.
Our team has done a great job getting that business turned around and getting our cost structure right.
And we found that we can compete in that category.
We're good at it.
Our customers depend on us.
We're a pretty large private label lunchmeat supplier today and sell a lot of own-brand lunchmeat deli meats that type of thing.
So we've been in it we're pretty good at it and we're going to grow it.
Your next question is from Ken Zaslow with BMO.
So obviously the fiscal year is an arbitrary date.
Pretty much everybody has different dates.
But if I look at your guidance or your implied guidance your run rate is much above the $2 run rate right? Because you're -- the first half of the year is below that.
Is there anything that takes you off that run rate above the $2 number beyond 2012 and 2013? No not really.
Yes that's what I thought.
The second question I have is in terms of the Chicken margin structure.
This year it's $125 million in savings.
What are you guys looking for in terms of your next leg of savings into 2013 and beyond? Is there more programs then being instituted with the CapEx funding? Can you talk about that? A little early yet.
Our folks will begin planning the 2000 fiscal year late this month early June.
And we will have our savings projections and those types of things in the August September time period.
We always asked our businesses to have that in front of us before we begin the fiscal year.
So youre about a quarter early.
We do see potential down the road but it's a little bit too early to quantify.
But we should expect to see another -- some sort of program into 2013 of...
Every segment of our business we are always looking for ways to maximize our operating efficiencies and continue to drive our business performance through executional excellence.
And just final question you don't consider this year a good operating environment year or do you? No.
No.
I mean we -- let's just take a segment.
Take Chicken for example I mean last year it probably absorbed 800-plus in corn and then maybe another 200 in other Prepared Foods and another couple hundred in raw material increases.
This year you're probably going to absorb 250 million 300 million more plus obviously you've had LFTB and all these other issues that have come up in the Beef segment.
So no this has been far from an ideal operating environment.
Q2 felt like we just got beat up every week on an issue.
I mean it was something every week and we came through it.
Well when it was all said and done fairly well.
Our next question is from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit about how you're Chicken results compare to what you see in Agri Stats? Just trying to get a sense of how much your self-help stuff and so forth is helping.
We do look at multiple benchmarking services.
I would tell you that our performance has continued to improve.
Now there's always ups and downs month-to-month.
Frankly there's a couple of things in Q2 that we were a little bit disappointed in in our Chicken segment but the team did a great job and pulled it out.
So we're at or approaching top quartile performance.
And of course we have a multitude of plants probably 30-something locations that factor into our average 32 I think.
So to have an average of 32 locations in the top 1/3 top quartile of that is pretty solid performance.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just as a follow-up to that could you discuss sort of where the lowest quartile is? And I guess what I'm just trying to understand is that your margins are obviously back where they are.
And you think that they could get better going forward.
You also talked about maybe there being a big corn crop coming and you sounded a little more positive on breast meat which has sort of been one of the things that's holding back margins.
And we are seeing -- I know you think production's going to be down 4% this year but we are seeing -- sequentially egg sets are increasing.
So I guess I'm just wondering maybe over the next 12 months are you at all concerned that we're going to get back into an environment where supply is going to start increasing again in a meaningful way or is the bulk of the industry just not at a point yet where that's even worth worrying about? Well just one quick point of clarification.
Sets and placements aren't necessarily increasing but the comparator versus a year ago is tightening up because of when we began to cut back last year.
So the...
A year ago we were at 208.
Last week we dropped it down back down like a 190...
200 to 198.
But hey I really don't want talk about our performance.
We have seen great increases in our live performance our team has done a very good job.
We continue to make great progress in our labor efficiencies line efficiencies.
Our yields are better.
Just all aspects of our conversion costs continue to improve partly because of the capital that we've been able to spend.
But also our folks are very innovative and they're constantly pressing on analytics and finding new ways to innovate processes to continue to outpace the others.
And weve built great customer loyalty.
We continue to expand on that.
We want to be seen as our customers' go-to supplier and I think that is also a very key component.
So it's a very balanced approach.
It's a combination of lots of things that have come together and we've got I think great opportunity looking forward.
And our next question is from a Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Donnie just a follow-up.
I've heard you say case ready was doing well and every couple of years we get excited about case ready I'm wondering if it's time for something happening there in particular or if this just was kind of a one-off? Steady growth business does well.
We're -- hey we're very good at case-ready beef and pork.
And their value-added line is doing well and adding to their business.
That's a great team around a great business.
The retailers view it as an important part of making sure that their sales presence in their category stays and stays healthy.
And our team has done a super job not only in terms of the quality of the product offering but also in the service.
Our on-time delivery our order fill rates are just just phenomenal.
So we've got a great team around that business and it continues to grow progressively.
Research Division</strong> And I remember you making comments maybe last quarter about how Memorial Day weekend last year was a disappointment.
And I assume that you'd know a lot about what the Memorial Day order book looks like right now or it's coming together right now.
Can you characterize the year-over-year on that? Certainly better than last year.
And it's interesting because gas prices gasoline prices actually peaked higher than they did a year ago sooner about by maybe 6 weeks or so.
And in terms of an average have taken more disposable income out of consumers products for longer this year and yet it feels like to us the Memorial Day weekend should certainly outpace last year's by a pretty good margin.
So we feel good going into the summer grilling season.
I can't tell you -- Pork demand's a little bit slow.
But again it's a spread business and the other categories are doing fine.
Research Division</strong> Is the positive weather -- has that been a factor for kind of getting grilling season going early? Yes it's got to help.
And our final question today is from Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on what you just referenced the slower near-term demand for Pork.
Do you know what's behind that? Let me jump in a little bit on that.
The retail has been down slightly but your biggest wholesale drops have been in bellies which basically I do think market did its job there.
High-priced bacon actually decreased consumption et cetera so that put pressure on the belly complex.
The biggest disappointment though overall is hams and export ham stayed up fine and it was domestic consumption of ham products that came down putting pressure on that.
And then trimmings actually have also had a major hit on the wholesale side which I think is a combination of the beef trim correction that we saw from LFTB as well as the fact that pigs have been very heavy and there's been ample supply and we've probably seen a pull back and have seen a pull back in some of the Food Service consumption on pizza products that support that market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you referenced in your comments about overall industry for chicken production to be down 4% still for the year.
What is Tyson's -- what is your production right now for Chicken? Estimate? We'll be down that or just a tad more.
And thanks for joining us today and for your continued support of our company.
I'm excited about the opportunities ahead of us in the second half of fiscal '12 and beyond.
And I'm confident in our team's ability to execute against our plan.
Thank you for joining us and have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Jon Kathol Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the third quarter of our 2012 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Earnings for our fiscal third quarter were $0.21 a share compared to $0.51 in Q3 of last year.
Now keep in mind earnings were impacted by $167 million or $0.29 a share for the early extinguishment of the 2014 notes.
Adjusted EPS was $0.50 for the quarter.
I'm very pleased we were able to pay off that debt early which strengthened an already strong balance sheet lowered our interest expense in upcoming quarters and helped us get back to investment grade with all 3 rating agencies.
This was an important milestone for our team and I'm proud of them for accomplishing this goal.
Sales rose slightly to $8.3 billion compared to $8.2 billion in Q3 of '11.
For the quarter Chicken sales were up 3.6% in large part due to an 8% increase in pricing.
Even though Beef pricing was up over 15% versus a year ago sales dollars were down slightly due to a 14% decrease in volume.
Both Pork and Prepared Foods sales were down by about 4.5% to 5% driven largely by softer pricing although let me hasten on to add that year-to-date our pricing is higher in all segments driving sales growth of 4.4% across the entire portfolio.
Operating income for the quarter was $336 million compared to $312 million in the same quarter last year.
The Prepared Foods segment was above its normalized range with a 6.2% operating margin.
The Chicken segment was within its range at 5.3%.
Our international Chicken operations faced significant headwinds in Q3 including start-up issues in China and Brazil.
Excluding these start-up-related losses our Chicken segment had a 6.7% return on sales.
The Pork segment came in just below its range for the first time in 10 quarters with a 5.1% return on sales.
Beef was just under its range with a 2% return.
Considering the challenges Beef and Pork faced in the third quarter I'm pleased they were able to produce as well as they did.
And due to those challenges along with softer demand and economic conditions earnings for the year will come in lower than we'd previously projected.
But I'll hurry on to say that 2012 will still be a strong year and fourth quarter earnings should be within the range of results reported in the first 3 quarters.
That's why we have this strategy in the business model we have: to manage through volatility.
We have a few businesses that are having record years and all of our businesses have plans in place to deal with the headwinds that we know are coming.
Looking into 2013 we believe it's prudent to enter the year with plans to pull back some on our CapEx and be a little conservative with our cash in order to keep a good supply of dry powder.
That's not to say we won't buy back stock or we won't make an opportunistic acquisition.
We just want to be prudent in how we handle our cash.
We worked hard to get our balance sheet back in order and to get back to investment-grade ratings and we don't want to jeopardize that.
Our pledge to grow prepared foods value-added poultry and international are the best hedge against volatility.
Providing value and getting paid for the value we create for our customers by being their go-to supplier is the key to stability and long-term growth.
Now moving on to the macro environment.
After 4 months of moderate decline consumer confidence was up in July according to the Conference Board Consumer Research Center.
Unemployment however was virtually unchanged which weighs on the pace of economic recovery.
In the retail channel according to the Perishable Group for the 13-week period ended June 30 overall fresh sales -- overall sales of fresh meat were down 3.3% in volume versus the same period a year ago driven by a 0.6% increase in price.
Beef and pork volume were down 7% and 1.7% respectively.
Chicken was the only category that saw pounds sold increase versus a year ago but the increase was very slight at 0.2% and demand feels sluggish to us.
The USDA forecast food prices will continue to rise in 2013 led by meat eggs and dairy as a result of the drought.
Beef prices are expected to be up 4% to 5%; pork up 2.5% to 3.5%; and poultry up 3% to 4%.
In the foodservice channel Technomic revised its 2012-2013 forecast upward to 1.7% real annual growth up 1.1% from its previous forecast.
The National Restaurant Association's Performance Index was stable for June.
And while we still feel sluggish demand in foodservice and the outlook is far from robust these indexes might indicate that perhaps the worst is over.
The NPD Group's consensus of commercial restaurant locations finds that numbers of both independent and chain restaurants have risen with independents finally showing a slight increase for the first time since 2009 another hopeful sign.
There are specific high-growth opportunities in an overall low-growth market.
According to Mantell chicken-focused concepts have done well through the post-recession economy.
And despite the heavy presence of discounting many chains have been focusing on premium menu items like bacon and steak and will most likely continue to do so.
Premium meats on burgers chicken sandwiches and salads and other items are helping operators increase menu prices with an enhanced value perception.
That concludes my remarks and now Jim will give you the specifics around our segments followed by Dennis with the financial report.
And after that we'll try to get into more detail with your questions.
Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
With $47 million in operating income and a 6.2% return on sales in the fiscal third quarter the Prepared Foods segment performed above its normalized operating range of 4% to 6%.
I'm pleased with the continued improvement and I see real opportunity for this segment.
Prepared Foods is a key part of our company's overall growth strategy and we are actively seeking ways to expand this business into other categories and grow existing categories in 2013 and beyond.
The Chicken segment posted $153 million in operating income and a 5.3% return on sales for the quarter which is within the normalized range of 5% to 7%.
We were able to offset the slightly higher grain cost in the quarter through price and mix improvement.
In China our Chicken operations were negatively impacted by start-up challenges compounded by economic and market issues.
While we were pleased with the performance of our new company-owned farms at this point they represent less than 20% of the birds we process weekly.
We are building new biosecurity-controlled broiler farms and plan to phase out the use of uncontrolled market birds over the next 2 years.
This will allow us to value up into a premium mix of branded fresh retail trade packs and foodservice sales.
But in the interim we will have some dependency on market birds and wholesale market conditions.
In addition to normal start-up issues our Brazilian Chicken operations saw significant market deterioration in the fiscal third quarter stemming from a very soft market for boneless leg meat in Japan.
We're in the process of bringing out second shifts at 2 of our plants which should improve our cost structure.
We will continue increasing value-added capabilities to move beyond dependency on commodity export and domestic wholesale markets.
To help you understand our expectations for the level and pace of our international expansion I'll give you the numbers around our plans for growth over the next 2 years.
In China we currently produce about 2 million birds per week and plan to reach 3 million a week in 2014.
In Brazil we're at a 1.3 million birds with plans for 2 million.
In India we'll grow from 280 000 to 450 000.
And in Mexico we intend to maintain production at around 2.7 million birds per week.
Turning back to domestic chicken obviously because of the drought we expect grain cost -- higher grain cost in 2013.
Over the past couple of years we have substantially reduced the number of fixed-price contracts we have with customers and currently have less than 15% of our poultry volume in annual fixed-price contracts.
The vast majority of our contracts are tied to specific markets or allow for conversations above adjusting prices to move prices to offset higher inputs.
And we will continue to push for even more of these types of contracts.
I believe the supply will begin to rationalize as well making it easier for us to have those pricing conversations.
The capital investments and operational improvements we've made in recent years have put us in good position to handle higher inputs through efficiencies.
Based on current grain futures we believe our Chicken segment will remain profitable in 2013.
In our Pork segment we produced $69 million in operating income and a 5.1% return on sales which is below the normalized range of 6% to 8%.
Unfortunately supply and demand got out of balance but it wasn't due to a shortage of hogs as some may think.
Increased domestic availability partially due to heavier hogs along with pricing pressure caused the industry to get out of balance.
In fact our [ph] margins were compressed more than prior quarters.
Our Pork margins are starting to come back to normalized levels now.
Supply of hogs should be 1% to 2% higher in the first 3 quarters of fiscal '13 and we do not see any material demand shifts on the horizon that would be detrimental to our Pork segment's performance next fiscal year.
Moving on to the Beef segment we had $71 million in operating income and a 2% return on sales in the third quarter.
This was just below our normalized range of 2.5% to 4.5%.
Considering how difficult the month of April was for us I'm pleased we were able to make up so much ground in May and June.
And I'll go on to add that we focused on maximizing revenue through price and mix to enhance margins not market share.
Looking to cattle supply into 2012 the calf crop was down as expected which will impact the late calendar 2013 and calendar 2014 fed beef supplies.
Based on the last inventory report we currently aren't seeing any definitive signs of heifer retention.
Additionally more feeder cattle were imported into the country than anticipated in the past 6 months to partially offset last year's reduced calf crop.
We expect close to the same supplies for the rest of fiscal '12 and into the first half of fiscal 2013 that we experienced this year.
Similar to last year feeder cattle are coming into feedlots earlier as a reaction to the drought.
We do see a supply drop-off in the back half of '13 as a result of the lower 2012 calf crop and slaughter capacity will likely adjust to lower volumes.
I will remind you that Tyson beef plants are located in traditionally cost-effective cattle-feeding areas and we expect to have adequate supplies to run our plants at a profitable level.
We believe the Beef segment will remain profitable in fiscal 2013 but will have challenges similar to what we experienced in 2012.
In conclusion I'll say that we are proud of the operational and sales improvements our business units have delivered over the last couple of years.
This has positioned us well to deal with the increased feed cost in the Chicken segment.
We have a strong balance sheet a diversified protein product portfolio and we've been investing in our plants to make them extremely efficient with mix improvements.
So we're in very good shape to get through the near-term challenges ahead.
With that Dennis? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
As Donnie mentioned in his remarks we reported Q3 earnings of $0.21 per share or $0.50 per share after adjusting for a charge of $167 million or $0.29 per share related to the extinguishment of our 2014 notes which I will address in a moment.
Return on invested capital for the last 12 months was 14.7%.
Capital expenditures were $186 million for the quarter and totaled $530 million through 3 quarters of fiscal 2012.
We've continued to invest in numerous capital projects for both our domestic and foreign operations that will result in improved productive capabilities and drive labor efficiencies improve yields and sales mix.
Our operating cash flow through the 3 quarters of fiscal 2012 remains strong at $719 million.
Including cash of more than $800 million net debt was $1.6 billion.
Total liquidity was $1.8 billion well above our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt increased to $2.5 billion.
The increase in gross debt was due to a successful 4.5% $1-billion note offering which we then used the note proceeds to extinguish our 10.5% 2014 notes.
We were able to tender and purchase $790 million of the $810 million principal on the 2014 notes prior to June 30.
Subsequent to the settlement of the tender offer we called for redemption of the remaining $20 million and we can now say the high-yield 2014 notes are fully extinguished.
As a result we incurred a charge of $167 million during the third quarter related to this early extinguishment.
Going forward this refinancing will reduce our annualized interest expense approximately $55 million which equates to about $0.09 per share.
At the same time as we issued the new bonds we also received an upgrade from Moody's which means we are now back to investment grade with all 3 rating agencies.
Personally it feels really good to have a debt maturity profile and interest costs that are reflective of being an investment-grade company again.
Gross debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months was 1.6x.
On a net debt to EBITDA basis this measure was 1x.
During the third quarter we acquired 3.9 million shares for $75 million under our share repurchase program.
Since reactivating this program in 2011 we have repurchased 19 million shares for $350 million representing a reduction of about 5% of our outstanding shares.
At this time we believe it is prudent for us to reduce our share repurchases under this program until we get better visibility into our working capital needs.
Returning to investment grade was very important to us and we are going to be disciplined concerning our balance sheet which we believe to be a source of competitive advantage.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the third quarter was 369 million.
This reflects the dilutive share effect totaling 5 million for options and 3 million for convertible bonds which will fluctuate depending on our stock price performance.
Our effective tax rate for Q3 was 42.4% or 37.9% without the charge related to the early extinguishment of the 2014 notes.
Now here's an update on the outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2012 and a few items pertaining to fiscal 2013.
Revenues for fiscal 2012 are expected to approximate $33 billion down $1 billion as previously estimated due to weakened domestic protein demand.
Revenues for fiscal 2013 are expected to approximate $35 billion mostly resulting from price increases associated with increased raw material costs and expected decreases in overall domestic availability of protein.
We expect 2012 net interest expense to be approximately $340 million including the $167-million charge related to the early extinguishment of the 2014 notes.
For fiscal 2013 we expect net interest expense to be in the $130-million to $140-million range.
The effective tax rate for fiscal '12 should be around 37%.
CapEx should be around $700 million.
Although down from our previous estimate the anticipated projects are moving along but will not be completed in fiscal 2012.
This amount still well exceeds our depreciation and amortization levels.
Our preliminary capital expenditures plan for fiscal 2013 is in the $500-million to $550-million range down from fiscal 2012 until we have better visibility into our working capital needs.
However as with share repurchases if forecasted conditions change we may increase our planned capital expenditures.
In closing we are pleased with our Q3 results and are confident in our ability to end fiscal 2012 with another strong quarter despite the ongoing challenges with soft protein domestic demand and high grain prices that appear to be in place for the foreseeable future.
The moves we have made to strengthen our balance sheet over the past few years and recent capital restructuring will allow us to face those challenges head on and continue executing our strategy as we head into fiscal 2013.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll ask Wendy to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Heather Jones with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question is on your poultry business.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of what your poultry profitability looks like if you take today's spot grain and market prices as well as what you think it will look like in the September-October time frame if we get the typical seasonal decline in chicken prices.
Okay.
So Heather let me make sure I've got the question right.
So you are asking what if our cost of goods were to immediately reflect the cost of what spot ingredient purchases would cost and there was no impact on revenue right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
So first of all let me say we don't have that scenario.
Our grain group has done a good job and they've got us coverage out a couple of months in front of us well below the market.
So this scenario is purely hypothetical but let's think about it.
At current values spot corn is probably going to deliver something like $9 a bushel.
Meal you're probably going to be something like 5 50 delivered.
So that's probably going to count to a live cost in the low 50s.
Let's call that say $0.52 a pound.
So today our live cost is probably just a tick under $0.45 a pound so our live cost would go up immediately $0.07 a pound.
Now yielded that's probably going to be like $0.10 on a finished pound.
So we're not making $0.10 a finished pound today in chicken so no -- in that hypothetical scenario and I'm really glad it is hypothetical we would not make money.
Now thinking back if I look at June we've just baked in benchmarking services a couple.
And so looking back at June we were top quartile in one top tertile in the other so we're operating across all of our businesses fairly well.
And if I think back to the top spots in those surveys probably the #1 #2 spots were around that $0.10-a-pound mark.
I'd say pricing has probably softened up a little bit now versus June.
We've seen breast meat prices come down and such and obviously the live cost is probably going to be a little higher.
So in your scenario no we wouldn't be profitable and I don't think anybody would be just based on what we see in those benchmarking services.
Now going forward into the fall fortunately our cost of goods in Q4 is going to be fairly well contained.
I do anticipate and we've seen a little bit of softness in the last couple of weeks that with the current supply pricing is likely to soften a little bit going into Q4 as it typically does and then into the Q1 on end of the fall that typically is not a very strong pricing period too.
So that's kind of our view going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on a follow-up let's just -- you talk about probably being below your normalized range for Beef in 2013.
But if we put you at like the 1% to 1.5% range for fiscal '13 most of the industry would be losing money.
And further even if without the drought from a long-term structural perspective some of your peers are poorly positioned.
So I guess I'm just wondering do you think that this drought will hasten what probably needed to happen anyway and it could have some of your competitors shutter some capacity? And I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
This is Jim.
The drought definitely will have a long-term impact to the overall beef supply because I do believe that it's done a little bit what it did last year.
And obviously if it starts to make cattle come to the feedlots earlier it changes some of the geography of where they're fed.
But more importantly this year what it's doing as well as the price of corn going up caused a radical correction to the feeder cattle pricing with that revenue dropping as much as $200 a head over that time frame.
So it wasn't short run.
That -- what that did is probably stopped any heifer retention that was going on or anticipated to go on.
And you have to remember that those calves -- those heifer calves now won't be probably staying in the herd will go into the feedlot.
So over the next 6 months to 1 year they would be into the feedlot numbers.
But over the long run we will have to see capacity adjust likely either through plant closing or capacity utilization reductions.
And we've always got to remind everybody that our plants have always been situated where the cost-competitive feedlots exist.
And peripheral feedlots generally have a higher operating cost.
And then on top of that they have a higher freight cost to get cattle to the plant when they get outside their region.
So I think that's a key component.
So I agree that we'll probably have to see and we'll likely see some capacity utilization reduction.
The timing of that is difficult to look at and nail down but in general that's correct.
And then I think one other thing on cattle.
We've seen dramatically a shift in the length and time cattle are fed which has reduced those feedlot turns probably in combination of higher grain costs and the accelerated movement particularly last year from the drought with cattle being in the feedlots longer.
So it's a lot more difficult than it's been in prior year's to predict exactly what we think is going to happen on a timing basis for availability.
So that's a fairly long answer to that question but that's what we see.
Our next question is from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on Chicken just to follow up on the previous question.
So you said the hypothetical is not what you are dealing with in '13.
So I just wanted to be clear.
So are you hedged through 2013? My guess is no.
And so at some point in 2013 -- fiscal '13 you are going to see higher grain cost if they stay where they are today.
So the fact that you're saying you still remain profitable tells me that 85% of your revenue base that's flexible you believe will adjust.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes you're reading it correctly.
We're a couple of months out in front on our grain cost which pretty much covers us through Q4.
And that's -- what we really wanted to do in our grain strategy was to get us into new crop.
Frankly I would have liked to have seen a better new crop to get into but be that as it may it is what it is so -- and we are -- we're covered through the end of September.
So as we get into new crop our grain costs will likely go up looking at today's markets.
But you're exactly right.
A few things are giving us the optimism about being profitable.
Number one is the pricing and the opportunities there.
But also we've spent a lot of money on our Chicken business in the last couple of years.
We still think there's some room for operating efficiency gains probably on the order of about another $100 million.
Jim mentioned and I think I did too about our international operations having a really tough quarter.
And we think those will improve.
The environment will improve there coming into 2013.
That will help some.
We are going to continue to sell more value-added and as we do that will improve the revenue side of our business.
And two our buy-versus-grow strategy is giving us a cost advantage because we're not saddled with parts of the chicken that don't carry very high revenue and we're able to buy the parts we need at generally below our cost and convert those into value-added items.
So you add all that stuff up and that's what gives us the optimism going into 2013.
And by the way going into 2013 our estimate as of about a week ago and hey this corn market is bouncing around like a yoyo so -- but as of a week ago we were anticipating an incremental $700 million in grain cost in 2013 just to kind of...
Research Division</strong> That is impressive if you're able to achieve that.
So the next question is so what's the supply scenario that you're assuming as being probable for next year for the industry? And what could change that? So I mean like most people expect like a 2% to 3% cutback could get the commodity prices up 10% or more and offset these higher grain costs.
But what are you -- I'm assuming you'll be profitable even if there is no further cutback.
Please correct me if I'm wrong there.
And what do you think the industry is going to do? When will it happen? And what might that do to your EBIT margins in Chicken? Okay I think I understood your question.
So we are predicting or in our model for 2013 we do have current slaughter pounds in the forecast.
Now let me talk about what we think we're going to happen.
Let's look back -- well about a year ago this time or so we were talking about this.
We looked back at a couple of periods now when our Chicken business has been in that 6% or so range one that April May June period of '09.
And during that time we had a 6% return on sales and slaughter pounds were running around $8.60 a week for the industry and that gave us the environment we needed to be able to get the pricing we needed up on top of our cost structure.
Now let me hasten on to say during that year corn was around $5 and meal was somewhere between $325 and $350-ish.
So then fast forward now up into 2012 the third quarter just ended 2012 you've got about 800 and 80-ish million or so slaughter pounds and you've got probably $7 corn and $360 meal.
So what made the difference there? It was all those things we mentioned before: the operating efficiencies more value-added our buy-versus-grow strategy all those things.
And so if you look at now the impact of this $0.07-a-pound live production increase it would just make sense to us that something south of that 860 million slaughter pounds which by the way I think is pretty close to your math of 2% to 3% is probably the minimum to provide the environment that we're going to need to be able to get our pricing structure up on top of this cost structure that's coming our way.
Research Division</strong> And when might that happen relative to historical norms? As you know it usually takes 6 months of losses before the industry starts cutting back.
Do you think it might happen sooner? Yes.
I can't comment on that but I can tell you that the current situation is untenable.
I think the key is we've have a rapid run-up in grain and with the drought and the overall supplies of grain worldwide we don't look like we're going to see a radical correction downwards.
So the optimism waiting for the grain market to correct down isn't there.
So that to me shortened the potential time frames.
Research Division</strong> One last one for Jim on Beef.
Are you assuming -- you're on I think around $50 a head in Beef.
And my guess is April was negative.
I'm assuming you're above normal range today.
Today meaning last week or...
Research Division</strong> Yes last week or in the month of June I'm assuming you're above normal and that's continued.
Yes.
The month of June was -- May and June corrected.
We got the relationship with the revenue increasing above the cattle cost.
And our effort is always to try to run for gross margin as best as we can and that means maximize the revenue of the beef maximize the mix watch our costs and really look at the forward supplies of cattle and the forward demand and try to keep those in harmony.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that there would be chicken producers who would choose not to cut production and just because of a good balance sheet keep their production flat and kind of power through this current negative grain environment? Farha I just couldn't say.
I mean for us we -- last year we cut production 6% to 8% and we have held solid with those cuts all year long.
That allows us to buy meat on the outside market.
And I'll tell you through Q3 we probably bought 60 loads of meat on the low side and over 100 maybe between 115 and 120 loads of meat a week on the upside and then brought that -- bought it below our cost in most cases and then brought that in to further process it which meant we didn't have parts of the bird that would be in oversupply that would have hurt our sales revenues.
So I can't speak for what somebody else may be thinking about with their balance sheet.
I'm really proud of our team for doing a great job.
If I look at our Chicken business Donnie King and his group have taken over $900 million out of our cost structure since call it mid-'08.
That's significant.
They've done a great job.
They've been very very prudent in how they've spent their capital and they've got these plants running great.
And so all of those things put together give us the optimism.
But I can tell you we don't have any plans to increase our production at all.
We don't have any plans to cut anything further.
If demand erodes we might buy a few less loads on the outside.
But we're continuing with our production cutbacks.
That's -- I can talk about us.
That's -- I can't speak for the rest of the industry.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up on Pork could you just share with us kind of the timing of how you see animals coming to market.
Do you expect a huge fall rush of hogs? And we're hearing that potentially there might not be enough shackle space.
And then do you expect to tighten up going into next year as higher grain costs hit the hog producers? Typically you do start to see an increase in numbers coming off of the summer heat and usually that kind of a June time frame is from the prior year's summer heat as it affects fertility rates.
So we would expect that coming into the back half of August into September October we'll see kind of what we used to call the normal fall run and we'd expect numbers at this point to be in the 1% to 2%.
I don't think they'll be anywhere close to pushing the maximum slaughter capacity of the industry.
And then you always have to -- or just look at the whole cycle approach here and say that high-priced grain will impact production but you still have a pipeline of about 10 months in production that's coming at you.
So I'd say that the impact to producer profitability will start to feel 10 months from now.
And then the summer -- this summer's heat also will have probably some issues as we get into kind of next summer's processing.
Our next question is from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Greg Van Winkle from Vincent's team.
My question's related to pork.
Wondering if you've seen any increase recently in hog supply as a result of breeder sows being sent to slaughter.
And I guess you addressed a little of this with the last question but what do you expect in terms of hog reductions going forward after the runoff we've seen in feed cost? We're not in the sow processing end of the business but I am hearing that there are more sows being offered.
And you would expect to see some early liquidation as a result of the run-up in grain prices.
But that's what we're hearing and I'll just have to monitor it week over week and month over month to look at what the projected long-range supplies are going to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what assumptions go into your outlook for Pork margins? You seem to be pretty optimistic about fiscal 2013 even though it seems to me like we're going to need higher hog prices to make producers profitable.
And it seems like maybe the domestic demand environment is still a little weak.
So I was just wondering what's driving your optimism there despite what seems like kind of a challenging environment.
Oh what drives my optimism is you've still seen really strong export demand.
You've seen an industry that can flex on the live production side.
It's also put down a lot of efficiencies.
We'll have to just watch and see what will happen as overall protein prices increase whether or not -- how much demand destruction there may be or won't be.
One interesting thing that's going on this year with the drought there's been so much communication out in the popular press about expecting higher prices because of a reduced corn crop.
And so I do think that at least we'll start to see some acceptance and maybe a little less demand destruction.
And we'll definitely have ample supplies through the majority of our fiscal '13.
So the other key component that I think one always has to look at is that the high grain prices in the U.S.
are affecting worldwide grain prices and we're still the most efficient producer of pork and chicken throughout the world.
So again the U.S.
should be favorably impacted from our overall efficiency in export.
So those are a lot of different reasons why I don't see anything real detrimental on the horizon in Pork.
Our next question is from Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Jim you talked a little bit about liquidation maybe not happening as quickly here.
But we're seeing quite a bit of liquidation it seems in some of the other countries that we export into specifically into Mexico.
And that's been mentioned by some of your peers.
I'm wondering could you see a slowdown in exports you think in the near term as some of that liquidates and then it's setting up for a really strong export outlook maybe into 2013? Which -- I'm not sure what species you're referencing.
Well really we've seen it...
Mexico is not a big pork-producing country but...
Yes we've heard quite a bit about pork specifically.
You've seen some liquidation in the cattle side in Oceania and then -- and in the Pork side it's primarily the hogs in Europe which maybe create some export opportunities for us.
Mexico.
I'm going to think Canada is also bringing quite a few sows to slaughter.
So I'm just curious kind of universally on the red meat side obviously the AI situation in Mexico is also perhaps creating a near-term pull.
Well I just -- that's -- let me just -- off my last answer I do think that we'll continue to see demand for -- in the countries we export to which hopefully will persist.
If there are that degree of liquidation against a small base I don't look at their liquidation putting extra pounds on the market that have to be -- that are going to materially impact their need to import product.
Clearly the AI scenario in Mexico has some issue relative to overall just chicken movement within the country which appeared to strengthen pricing here in the last several weeks.
And then in the EU we continue to hear about pig production being curtailed from a variety of different reasons.
But again as I mentioned in the previous answer worldwide grain prices are going up as well so the world's protein producers are going to feel this impact and the U.S.
is the most efficient place to grow pork and chicken.
So I would expect that we'll see that long-term ramification from that.
All right.
And then just Donnie you mentioned what sounded like an improving foodservice environment.
Just curious what your customer conversations are looking like in light of this increase in protein prices and possibly higher fuel on the back of lower ethanol production.
Kind of also with wing prices so high this year how much higher can they go relatively in order to offset some of the seed [ph]? Might some of that increase have to come on the back of boneless? Yes I guess the best way I would characterize foodservice demand is it's a little bit -- it's sluggish.
But finally there's a little bit of optimism so hey maybe this thing's quite going down as -- that's not a very -- there's a little bit of optimism there but not a lot.
So as far as the conversations are going I think people understand.
There's nobody confused about the drought and its impact on the meat industry and meat producers.
Also though they're well aware of the current supply situation and so there's not an immediate need to make a pricing adjustment.
And so the conversations are largely around "We understand it's coming and when it gets here we'll participate because you guys do a great job taking care of us and service and quality and you're the innovation leader " and that kind of thing.
So did that answer your question? Yes.
Just on the wings I mean I'm a little bit worried given how high they got this year that they'd be able to take on much more of the...
It's interesting.
If you go back in just about every year regardless of where the wing price starts when you go into the winter wing season wing prices escalate.
So we may test that this year but so far every year wing prices go up during wing season so...
I want to add one other thing.
We spend -- do spend a lot of time with customers showing them the supply/demand fundamentals what's out in front of them what the moves are.
And that does help them immensely.
The dialogue gives them some anticipation of what they think the supply will be relative to demand forward and their thinking about prices so...
Our next question is from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you elaborate a bit -- and forgive me if you talked about this already -- on the soft domestic demand you highlighted? Is it primarily in a certain species or across the board? To what degree are consumers are trading down? Where are you seeing it? Just a little more color there would be appreciated if you can.
Okay.
Let's talk about retail first.
Overall fresh meat sales are down.
Hey as pricing increases it does hurt volume.
Sales dollars are there but volume is down.
Beef and pork are down more than chicken.
Fresh chicken sales are about flat.
Beef's down; pork's down.
At foodservice really chicken has had a pretty good summer at foodservice.
Demand for the other items is fair at best.
Pork has actually probably been the softest between beef and pork.
As we look at -- we tend to look at holiday seasons as kind of an indicator for things to come and Memorial Day was just average at best.
And then when we went into Fourth of July chicken demand was just fair.
Pork was a little bit soft.
Beef did okay.
Beef got a lot of feature activity in retail during the Fourth of July holiday.
As we look at it now as prices edge higher it's probably going to hurt demand.
We haven't really seen -- well hey you might call 4% 5% volume down in beef and pork and flat chicken meaning some shift into chicken.
You might -- could interpret that.
But really we haven't seen what I would call wholesale movement between the proteins.
They are trading down within the category from more expensive muscle cut maybe down into grind and that kind of thing.
But really haven't seen wholesale movement between the proteins.
I'd add one other thing and that is even with the Perishable data showing down 3% in 4 weeks and 13 weeks down 1% and the volume is down 8% the wholesale prices of beef have been high.
They've been higher than a year ago.
So the balance of the cutout has still been high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just generally as you think about how to approach a year when input costs could be a headwind and obviously it looks like it will be I realize you're going to stay on target with your long-term strategies.
But are there tactical moves you perhaps might make this time rather than at a time when inflation is a little bit less onerous? It sounds like some of what you're doing with capital spending and share repurchases is that.
But I'm just trying to get a sense for maybe what other adjustments you can make in running your business now versus what kind of it looked like a few months ago.
Yes.
I think you've mentioned the primary 2.
We want to keep a little more dry powder around this and just be cautionary.
And then as we get into the year and we get more visibility into what our working capital needs are going to be I have absolutely no problem continuing to invest in the business.
Obviously there are acquisitions that are out there that may interest us in the future buying our stock back.
I think we're a great value.
So all of those things are there.
Other than that no we really don't want to change our strategy.
We're on point growing our value-added businesses doing those things we need to do to take care of our customers and lead with quality our service and innovation.
Our guys have done a great job.
Noel White and his group have done a super job with their premium programs in Beef and Pork and continue to operate their business better than the indexes that they compare themselves to.
So no.
That's the whole point.
It was to weather the storm and get to a point like this to where we could continue down our path and have a balance sheet that would support that.
Our next question is from Ken Zaslow with BMO.
I know you kind of touched on it.
I'm just trying to get a little bit more hard-core answers to this.
How much production cuts do you expect for the industry? And what will be your participation be? Let me go to the latter.
What we did was kind of look back into environments that happened before when we got into an environment where we could add pricing.
But in our business we have remained cut back the 6% or 8% or so we did back a year ago and we're going to continue with our current production plans is the plan now.
Now things may change depending on what grain does or something like that.
But currently we don't have any plans to change our production because we're producing well below our demand today thus buying all the parts we're buying.
So we like our production model being well short of our demand.
And what about the -- because I guess your comment on the press release is changing crop conditions and pricing could reduce or change the USDA outlook.
So I'm assuming you guys think that there is going to be some production cut.
I'm just trying to figure out what extent do you think it is and how confident you are in that.
Go ahead Jim.
Well I think -- we look back a lot and do a lot of work looking at history correlating live pounds and overproduction against demand.
The data basically says to increase price you've got to pull back production and the market will have to do its job.
How fast that happens under what environment is difficult for anybody to predict.
And then I think as we look across the board and we just -- again history tells us that will happen.
Who how fast when is virtually impossible to tell.
We have thoughts but we're certainly not going to talk about anybody specifically.
We really try -- as Donnie keeps saying we manage our own business with a lot of focus on demand forecast by part what our production runs are going to have to be and manage it out 13 14 weeks in advance.
And we do know what we have ahead of us with increased live production costs.
So we're going to work on pricing and all the dialogue associated therein.
And my other question is if you guys are pretty updating your -- at least breakeven if not positive what would that be for the industry? So I'm assuming you're outperforming the industry.
Can you give us a metric to which you guys are outperforming the industry? Well I mentioned in an earlier question that we're top quartile in one of our benchmarking services and top third in the other.
So that's about as much as I could say about how we compare.
Our next question is from Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim I just want to follow up I guess on -- I guess Ken's previous question and your answer and some of the previous questions in terms of is this time different where -- historically you said when you cut supply pricing will go up.
But is demand weak such that you actually can't pass it through this time? And looking at -- going back to Christine's question in terms of wing prices at all -- really high levels wing or leg quarter and breast meat prices didn't really move that much higher this year in relation to where they are relative to their cold storage levels and where production levels were in general for the industry.
So I guess in terms of your optimism for pricing next year I mean leg quarter cold storage inventories are at the lowest level in 3 years since they've changed the data and breast meat is at the lowest level in several years.
So could you comment about that and your ability to take pricing next year? Well you're making a good point for us Ryan because inventories are low and that's certainly an advantage to us.
But think I mean we're facing today not knowing what's in front of us $9 corn delivered and $550 million -- I mean $550 soybean meal which is going to have your live cost above $0.50 a pound -- I would -- somewhere in the neighborhood of $0.52 a pound.
That frankly is just untenable.
So we talked about earlier as we went back into earlier periods when there was 860 million slaughter pounds that -- and in those environments we had the pricing structure that we needed to get on top of our current cost.
By the way we've improved our business since then.
But if you just look at that it stands to reason to us that with this wave of feed cost coming at us you certainly -- we need to be below that level in order to have a favorable pricing environment.
Now our forecast for the year is to operate profitably in this environment so anything that -- any time the environment improves that should be additive to our business.
The only thing I'd add is -- in my comments previously that I'd add now would be you've seen different parts of the bird particularly carry different percentage of the overall with breast meat being soft wing's high leg quarters running pretty strong prices all year.
And again we really try to manage through total revenue component and look at where the opportunity to maximize that be it in-country be it export.
So I think the market there -- will there be demand destruction with higher prices? Generally that's normal activity and the supply generally coming down.
We'll have to offset it until equilibrium again occurs.
So the timing of that is very difficult to call.
But I do believe people will eat protein.
The world will still have the same overall demand for protein.
There will be adjustments on the parts.
And we'll just have to see how fast that comes up to cover increased live costs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then can you just talk about -- have you guys been importing any corn from Brazil at all or are contracted to do so? No not that we wouldn't if the math worked.
But we've got a lot of truck corn bought from local farmers close to our feed mills.
And right now the value -- imported values out of Brazil wouldn't compete with the cost that we've got local truck grain bought for so -- but we run the math constantly.
And when it works that's an avenue for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last quick one.
Jim if you could talk about the volumes down 14% in Beef.
How much of that -- is it lower towel [ph] purchases? Could you talk about what drove that or break down that 14% decline? In that 14% we did process fewer head.
Carcass weight was up.
Then our outside cattle purchases really related to the impact of the relationship we have with BPI with their volume down where we basically captured some of that towel [ph] and sold.
So it was the combination of those 3 things on the line.
Our next question is from Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First on the Brazil China losses of $30 million.
Is there any more color that you can kind of give us on that? And what did that relate to? What's the likelihood of that continuing and so on? Yes we're definitely seeing the softness that you hear a little bit about in the China economy and that's affecting the wholesale value.
So basically what the story there is Tim we have a young start-up business that we run today largely dependent on market birds.
The premiums we will get will come when we have these biosecured company-owned houses which that part makes up only 20% of the 2 million head that we're slaughtering today.
So when you combine -- let me hasten on to say the cost structure we see in those live production assets is great.
The premiums that we see over the wholesale markets both at retail and foodservice is what we expected.
So our business model looks right.
It feels good.
We're very optimistic about what we're doing there.
It's just we're a young start-up fledgling business and today we're way too dependent on wholesale markets.
And it's been soft.
Pretty much the same story in Brazil as we move towards a more value-added mix.
This boneless leg meat deal in Japan when that market closed it kind of backed up through and affected -- of course and the problems -- economic problems in Europe have slowed down breast meat prices there.
So if you take the boneless leg meat market closing in Japan and the softness in the breast meat market in Europe a lot of that had ripple effects into other markets and ended up backing up a lot of meat into the domestic business.
And again we don't have our value-added mix sold out like we want to yet so we were very dependent on the wholesale markets and that was just not a good place to be in Q3.
We see some improvement now and we do predict kind of steady improvement.
It's liable to be a couple more quarters out though before we're feeling a whole lot better about that.
And hey the story is in Brazil get your plants double-shifted and get into that value-added mix like our business model says we have to do.
And in China we can't build chicken houses fast enough.
So the model is good.
We'll get there.
It's just we're too dependent on export and wholesale markets today.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just a quick one for Dennis.
If we were bridging to the $0.50 Dennis what would we plug in for the tax component of the refunding of the bonds? If we're going back to $0.50 if we didn't have the extinguishment of the bonds it would have been 37.9%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But do you know the dollar amount for the tax impact of the bond? We can get you that Tim.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know what your capacity utilization levels are in Beef now Jim.
I mean your volume was down 14% in the quarter.
You still had pretty decent margins but you're going to be down double-digit this year.
You'll probably be down again next year.
At what point this capacity utilization become an issue in Beef? The issue really gets critical when you are going to average -- I've got to get my math right here but I'll make it simple.
When you think you're going to average less than $36 it's critical.
We were well north of that.
We always do our capacity utilization on a 6-day week and I don't think there's -- we're not going to see volumes out there that are going to warrant much Saturday operation.
But we were still in the high 70s on capacity utilization on a 6-day capacity.
But you've also got to kind of look at that number because when you're adding value on your cut floors and going to more value-added mixes you have to watch how you really run your plant.
So sometimes you'll sacrifice throughput for revenue.
And that's part of that overall game of trying to maximize revenue against cost against the supply.
So sometimes you'll take a capacity reduction simply to maximize your revenue to get a higher mix.
That's why it's a lot less dependent than a pure number of just saying what's the capacity utilization and we're always making those adjustments.
That's why I'm a bit vague with the answer.
Research Division</strong> I remember years ago capacity utilization was the most important thing to follow.
Has your business philosophy changed since then? It's more revenue management? Yes let me -- I just apologize for jumping in there but it was not only the most important thing to follow.
Maximizing revenue has always been a key driver.
It's just that people like to look at that relative to the supply and the adjustments.
So yes the key is really maximizing the revenue through mix and sales and then looking forward to what that type of cattle supplies are out in front and really trying to match those.
And we're not hesitant to try to drop a little bit of the daily capacity or the daily run rates to try to maximize those revenues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up for Donnie.
Chicken pricing looks like yours is going to be up about 9% this year.
Your volume will be down pretty much in line with the industry maybe in line.
Is 9% pricing disappointing? Were you expecting a higher pickup in pricing? Good question.
No I think at the cost level so far for the run rate feels okay not -- it's going to be woefully inadequate to cover the cost structure that's coming at us so we will definitely need to take more.
But I'm proud of our guys.
We won some price based on the things we'd like to win our price increase on which is having a great quality product in the box or in the tray.
Our service on time and order fill has just been phenomenal.
And two we lead with innovative capability.
We've had a lot of our customers in the Discovery Center working on ways to grow their business and so for that we get rewarded for adding that value to their business with a pricing structure that makes sense.
So no I wouldn't say we're disappointed in where we are.
I think our folks have done a good job.
They do know they've got another hill to climb and we're headed that way.
Our next question is from Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is on the Prepared Food segment.
Can you just give us some highlights within the quarter? What actual product categories performed well versus the other categories? Yes sure.
Our lunchmeat business we've talked about that a little bit before continues to make improvement.
Proud of that team.
I'll tell you our Wright brand bacon has well outpaced category growth there.
We've extended the Wright brand beyond bacon now into dinner sausages and are very pleased with that.
We are seeing some movement and pretty optimistic around chicken lunchmeat.
We've got some smoked meat offerings coming out.
We've actually done very well in our franks business.
And two we've got a new offering coming very soon into the marketplace in the next 2 or 3 months which -- well it is back to a chicken offering which will be gluten-free strips and nuggets.
So adding value to the red meat items whether it's pizza topping.
Our tortilla business has done well as well.
So it's really been a fairly broad-based growth in all of those Prepared Foods segments and we see a continued bright future and a lot of growth opportunities in that segment.
The only thing I'd add is we also had a plant start-up which actually hurt us in this which we started our Council Bluffs pepperoni plant which will be a very efficient process there.
They're much more competitive than some of our existing pepperoni.
And we'll continue to really put a lot of focus in our overall Prepared Foods particularly the sausage and pizza topping businesses as well as the lunchmeat.
So we're very encouraged with the activity and the project list that we have on incremental improvements throughout the whole category we call prepared...
Our next question is from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Donnie it wasn't clear from your comments if you thought you would actually fall into a position of unprofitability in the Chicken segment.
I think earlier in the call you talked about the incremental cost of grain and that pricing was actually coming down on a seasonal basis.
We always see it.
And that suggested to me that maybe the December and March periods you would be negative.
But then later you said we're managing our business; however we kind of remain profitable.
So I guess I'm just wondering for your commentary regarding fiscal '13 is it built on we know where we are to the extent that we know where grain is today and we think we'll be profitable? Or is there a little bit of sort of optimism built into your back half of your fiscal '13 because at some point the market will start pricing and presumably that we'll have a crop in 2013? A little bit of -- the answer to both of those questions is yes.
Our optimism is based around where grains are today because that's really the only visibility we have.
And we do see improvements in the back end not so much in our costing model but on the revenue side of the model.
It's a little bit back-half loaded.
But to your question we are using current grain prices current soybean meal however the spot market is plus the basis freight delivered to our feed mills in the cost structure.
And we see more operating efficiencies coming.
Yes.
About $100 million yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess I -- somebody touched on it earlier about the revenue side and the fact that obviously the industry is really sort of a supply-driven industry and sort of the pricing follows how much we're either short or in excess.
But if you look at even the breeder flock today is now 10% below what it was in 2007 and yet pricing wasn't all that robust this year.
So I guess I'm just a little nervous that even if we get another cut next year call it 2% to 3% that the consumer environment is so difficult that you really won't see it.
And when I talk to the restaurant companies that are following QSR they're looking to maintain their pricing structure to their customers which means they're going to pressure back on their supply chain.
So is it the conversations you're having with your customers today that they're now giving you an idea that okay yes they're going to be willing to accept these price increases that you're going to need to take to cover this? Or I guess what's making you so optimistic about pricing in 2013? Number one yes we are -- as we talk to customers today they do see that this is an unprecedented movement in grain that is likely to have an impact on the supply of meat in all 3 proteins maybe all 4 proteins including turkey I guess on the market as we move forward.
Now the exact timing of when which segment will cut back and supply will decrease we have our ideas but I won't speculate on that.
But I think everyone that we talk to realizes that the meat situation in America is going to tighten up and that's going to have an impact on pricing.
USDA has got their figures.
We kind of pencil in ours.
But hey our Chicken business has done -- the domestic Chicken business did very well I think in Q3.
We continue to add not only operating efficiencies but we continue to grow our value-added.
And we're getting paid for the value that we're adding to our customers' businesses.
And so that's what keeps us optimistic is the fact that this situation is untenable.
It's going to change.
And we're in a position because we've so dramatically reduced the amount of fixed cost -- fixed price -- long-term annual fixed-price agreements that we have to be able to take advantage of helping a customer ensure supply by being in an arrangement with a great supplier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up question if I have a minute.
I realize you're over schedule here.
On the international business you had talked about pulling in all of that production internally and building out farms et cetera in China.
Is that -- what's the timeline on that again? Is that 2 years? A couple of years 2014 yes.
We should grow steadily in company-controlled biosecure houses between now and 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at that time you don't expect to take any meat from the outside market.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what would your run rate be in 2014 in terms of total production? In China about 3 million head.
Per week yes.
Our final question today is from Colin Guheen with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just real quickly I guess bigger picture and playing off of some of the Diane's questions.
There's been such demand destruction over the last couple of years in beef.
Are we getting to a level of more latent demand here where people become more agnostic on price? Or do we see more species substitution if we continue to have above your forecasted pricing in beef and continued demand destruction? When I hear that and I tend to think that until I go look at the numbers and then I see that the cutout has ran a very high level and currently is running a much higher number relative to last year.
When I look at the Perishable data you'll see the volumes being down and the prices being down.
But the reality is the market's absorbing.
It did absorb a choice cutout in the 190s through the bulk of May.
It came off after the Fourth of July.
It's a very difficult thing to answer other than looking at history but we do know that the supplies will continue to come down.
The prices probably will continue to rise.
And the export demand I think even though it's down year-over-year January through May about 11% now we expect to see probably exports continue -- or will strengthen in the back half and potentially into '13.
Again that overall available worldwide supply keeps dropping and so I think there are a number of consumers that are really -- the price isn't the primary driver.
So it's a long answer to say I'm not sure.
I can't predict the future very well.
But I can look at the supply dynamic going down.
And history tells me that as supplies come down prices will continue to inflate.
Okay.
Well that wraps up our call for today.
We obviously have some challenging months ahead but we've got the right team in place and the right plan to handle what comes our way.
So thanks for joining us today and have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the fourth quarter and 2012 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us today.
Before we get to our results I want to say that our hearts go out to everyone in the Northeast affected by Superstorm Sandy and I'd like to thank the Tyson team members who traveled from 9 different locations some as far away as Oklahoma Arkansas Virginia and Tennessee to prepare and serve meals at our Meals That Matter feeding sites in Bayonne New Jersey and Staten Island.
Our teams have worked with local volunteers to feed more than 60 000 meals to first responders and storm victims.
These team members have it in their hearts to make a difference and I'm proud to be associated with them.
As you saw in our press release this morning we had a strong fourth quarter and another very good year.
In the past 3 years our EPS has averaged around the $2 mark on an adjusted basis.
That's a new base level of performance when you look at this company's EPS over time.
I'm very proud of our management team and all our team members.
Thinking about what we've accomplished over the last 3 years in a sluggish economy with unfavorable market dynamics and staggering input cost increases it really is impressive.
So I'm going to take a minute and list what I see as many of the important accomplishments: We've produced consecutive record sales 3 years in a row with an 8% compounded annual growth rate.
We generated $3.7 billion in operating cash flows and this is after funding $600 million in working capital increases.
We invested nearly $2 billion back in our company through CapEx.
We paid down debt by $1.1 billion.
We reduced net debt to cap from 34% to 18.4%.
That's the lowest level since the IBP acquisition.
We reduced net debt to EBITDA from 2.8x to 0.8x.
We got our debt rating back to investment grade with all 3 rating agencies.
We improved our liquidity position to over $2 billion at the end of fiscal '12.
We bought back $400 million of our stock or over 22 million shares.
We improved production efficiencies throughout our operations and achieved $715 million in operating efficiencies in our poultry segment alone in the past 3 years and over $1 billion in total in that segment.
We developed a cohesive strategy and a plan for growth around our multi-protein multi-channel multinational business model.
We stepped up our international growth efforts especially in China.
We diversified export sales so that we aren't overly dependent on any one country or region.
And as I've said earlier and I think it bears repeating we averaged around $2 a share in adjusted EPS over the last 3 years and we did all this with nearly $1 billion in additional feed ingredient cost in the past 2 years.
We're establishing a culture of lean thinking operational excellence and continuous improvement.
We're a better safer more dependable company.
But while it's good to look back and remind ourselves of how far we've come our destiny is not to become a low-cost commodity protein company.
Our customers and our stakeholders need us to grow into a solution-providing food company.
We've laid the foundation and we can never forget what got us to this point.
But what got us here won't get us there.
So today we'd like to share with you where we'll be taking the company.
Let's start with sales growth.
Over the next 3 years Tyson will accelerate our growth in value-added poultry and Prepared Foods and in our international business.
And as a result you should expect to see our top line sales grow between 3% and 4% annually.
Our value-added sales should grow at twice that rate or at 6% to 8% and the sales from international production should grow at twice that rate or 12% to 16% a year.
We will grow our existing domestic businesses as our customers' go-to supplier by providing quality service and innovation.
We'll make headway into other channels like convenience stores.
We'll focus on developing new value-added products.
And of course we'll grow our international business.
Our intention is to grow that business aggressively.
Now let's look at our earnings expectations.
We're anticipating an incremental $600 million in feed ingredient cost in fiscal '13 and we'll need to offset that through pricing and other measures.
I should hurry on to say that I think fiscal '13 EPS will be similar to the last couple of years.
And it's encouraging to note that we're off to a great start in Q1.
So how will we accomplish that? Well for perspective our start-up operations in Brazil and China lost a little over $100 million in FY '12.
In China as we bring on more company-owned housing in 2013 allowing us to move more of our mix away from wholesale and into more desirable channels we will reduce our losses substantially.
We're also executing better in Brazil and we'll benefit from the progress we're making there in moving our mix to include more value-added offerings.
And frankly in FY '12 we made some missteps in parts of our domestic business that cost us too.
But even with these missteps we still had very strong results in 2012.
We learned from our mistakes.
We won't be making them again which gives us a head start on 2013.
We're planning to gain another $100 million in operating efficiencies in our poultry and Prepared Foods businesses this year.
We also expect to earn price increases based on our quality of service and innovation.
We're going to upgrade our product mix with more value-added items throughout our segments and we're poised to make significant strides in growing our Prepared Foods businesses.
Jim will add a few more details about this in his remarks.
There's a lot to be excited about because we've positioned ourselves well for fiscal '13.
Yes there will be challenging fundamentals but that's always the case in our industry.
It's our job to manage them and we think we've proven we can do that.
Our team figures it out and finds a way to get it done.
Therefore we expect EPS in FY '13 to be flat to the previous 2 years and fiscal '14 and '15 should grow at a rate of around 10%.
Our cash flow will continue to be strong and combined with our strong balance sheet we'll have several options to deliver value to our shareholders.
We'll continue repurchasing our shares investing in our business and seeking the right acquisition to fill gaps and unmet consumer needs.
That concludes my remarks.
Dennis will now give you the financial update followed by Jim who will talk about our operating segments.
Dennis? Thank you Donnie and good morning everyone.
We reported fourth quarter earnings of $0.51 per share or $0.55 after adjusting for a $15-million impairment charge on noncore assets.
This compares to $0.26 per share a year ago.
Reported fiscal 2012 earnings was $1.58 per share or $1.91 after adjusting for the fourth quarter impairment and a third quarter charge of $167 million related to the early extinguishment of our 2014 notes.
The $1.91 adjusted EPS compares to $1.89 adjusted EPS in fiscal 2011.
Pretax return on invested capital for the past 12 months was 17.1%.
Over the past 3 years pretax ROIC has averaged just over 19%.
Capital expenditures were $160 million for the quarter bringing the fiscal 2012 total to a record $690 million.
These investments reflect numerous capital projects for both our domestic and foreign operations that result in improved productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix.
Our operating cash flow for fiscal 2012 was above $1 billion for a third consecutive year at $1.2 billion.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 39.9% or 38% excluding the impairment of noncore assets which had no tax benefit.
For fiscal 2012 our effective tax rate was 37.9% or 36.7% on an adjusted basis.
Including cash of more than $1 billion net debt was just under $1.4 billion.
Total liquidity was $2 billion well above our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt was just over $2.4 billion in line with the end of last quarter.
As Donnie mentioned net debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months was 0.8x.
On a gross debt to EBITDA basis this measure was 1.4x.
During the fourth quarter we acquired 3.2 million shares for $50 million under our share repurchase program.
On our last call we said that we expected to reduce share repurchases until we had better visibility into our cash needs and market conditions.
Due to the strong earnings in the latter part of the fourth quarter we were able to purchase near previous levels while continuing to maintain our leverage and liquidity targets.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the fourth quarter was 363 million and 370 million for fiscal 2012.
This reflects the dilutive share effect of options and convertible notes of $5 million for the fourth quarter and $7 million for fiscal 2012.
Before moving on to fiscal 2013 I would also like to take a brief moment to discuss the improvements we've made to our balance sheet over the past few years.
On this call 4 years ago we discussed the convertible notes and follow-on equity offerings that we did in September 2008 to shore up our balance sheet.
Then 4 months later in March 2009 we issued $810 million of 10.5% 5-year high-yield notes and converted our revolver to a secured asset-backed loan facility.
Following 3 years of considerable improvements in our operating results and deleveraging we have returned to investment grade with all 3 rating agencies.
With these improved ratings we have been able to replace the asset-backed facility with an unsecured revolver and issue $1 billion of 4.5% 10-year investment-grade notes to replace the high-yield notes.
Additionally we have repurchased nearly all of the 22.4 million shares we issued in 2008 and we have cash in excess of our liquidity target already on the balance sheet to retire the converts when they mature in 11 months.
In summary we have put the extensive capital raises of 2008 and 2009 behind us and that feels great.
Now looking forward here are some thoughts on fiscal 2013.
We expect revenues of approximately $35 billion up 5% over 2012.
Net interest expense should approximate $140 million down approximately $37 million from 2012 when adjusting for the premiums paid to extinguish the high-yield notes early.
The effective tax rate should be around 36%.
Our preliminary CapEx plan is around $550 million which may increase as we gain further visibility into the year ahead.
The improvements that we've made over the past 3 years have provided us with a balance sheet that is a competitive advantage and a solid foundation for our strategic plan.
This morning we reported our Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $0.10 per share for our Class A stock and $0.09 per share for our Class B stock.
The board also increased our regular dividend by 25%.
Our sustained new level of performance combined with the strength of our balance sheet and liquidity has given us the opportunity to increase our dividends to return cash to shareholders.
Our priorities for excess cash in the coming year include additional capital spending to improve and grow our existing businesses acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products in our international footprint and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while ensuring we will maintain plenty of liquidity at our disposal.
Accomplishing these priorities will position us well to meet our objective of at least 10% annual EPS growth beyond 2013.
With that I'll turn it over to Jim for a closer look into our operating segments.
Thanks Dennis and good morning everyone.
I'll begin with the Prepared Foods segment which produced $39 million in operating income in the fourth quarter and a 4.8% return on sales.
For the year Prepared Foods had $181 million in operating income and a 5.6% return on sales.
Average sales price was up 1.6% on 0.9% lower volume.
We are focused on growing this segment and we recently launched several new products including frozen handheld snack items Tyson brand luncheon meats chicken luncheon meat and hotdogs.
We have invested in our Houston plant to improve efficiencies and increase our flexibility for lunchmeat production which will allow us to grow that business.
In addition we're following the success of Wright Brand Bacon with Wright Brand Fully Cooked Ribs and sliced beef brisket.
Wright is a premium brand and these products are exceptional in quality and flavor.
Our R&amp;D culinary consumer insight sales and marketing teams are working closely with our customer base to provide new products and category solutions.
In the deli channel Tyson continues to solidify our position as a leader in consumer and shopper research.
For the second year in a row Progressive Grocer Magazine recognized Tyson Deli as a category captain for deli-prepared foods.
This is -- this award is a validation that Tyson Deli excels in the tools and knowledge that grow our customer businesses.
Looking ahead in 2013 fiscal year for Prepared Foods segment we expect our growth to include building on our position as the country's leading foodservice pepperoni producer.
And earlier this year we completed a state-of-the-art expansion of our Council Bluffs Iowa pepperoni plant.
We are also exploring growth opportunities in tortillas and ethnic foods and developing greater presence in the convenience store channel in addition to our improvements in luncheon meat.
Now turning to Pork.
The segment posted $68 million in operating income and a 5.2% return on sales in the fourth quarter.
Margins were squeezed early in the quarter carrying over from the supply/demand imbalance experienced in our fiscal third quarter.
In the fourth quarter we continued to perform well against our internal index goal using the reported USDA prices for the cut-out drop credit and regional hog cost.
We have continuously improved against this index every year and we achieved this by managing mix yields value-added premium programs and pricing analytics.
For the fiscal year Pork had $417 million in operating income and a 7.6% return on sales.
Average sales price was down 1.5% on 2.4% higher volumes.
In fiscal '13 we expect industry hog supplies to be relatively flat.
We expect pork exports in 2013 to remain similar to 2012 and overall margin should be strong.
Turning to our Chicken segment.
In the fourth quarter we had $116 million in operating income and a 3.8% return on sales or a 4.3% return excluding the impairment of our noncore China assets.
Excluding losses from our international start-up operations Q4 return on sales was 5.7%.
For the year the Chicken segment produced $446 million in operating income and a 3.8% return on sales.
Excluding the international start-up losses return on sales in fiscal '12 was 5.1%.
Average sales price was up 9.2% on 3.6% lower volume.
I think we should be pleased with these results considering we overcame $320 million year-over-year in additional feed cost aided in large part by the $115 million in operating efficiencies we achieved which was short of our $125-million target.
This proves we have the pricing and operational leverage that allow us to deliver strong results in periods of high input costs.
Sales volume decreases in the quarter were due to our buy-versus-grow strategy which resulted in fewer parts we didn't have to sell at reduced prices.
Growth in our international operations offset some of the domestic volume decreases in our Chicken segment.
We will continue to focus on aggressive growth of value-added domestic retail and international chicken sales and we anticipate heavy chicken features at foodservice national accounts throughout the year.
We have maintained the production cuts we've put in place in 2011 and will supplement our needs with the purchases on the open market.
We will be pushing for price increases for our chicken products across the board and we expect our international start-up operations to improve substantially as we continue building company-owned chicken farms reducing our exposure to the market birds and benefiting from strong customer acceptance in the retail and foodservice channels.
Our overall outlook for the Chicken segment is positive.
We believe we can adjust to the current grain forecasts with our focus on value-added price overall mix and operational improvements.
The Beef segment produced $117 million operating income in the fourth quarter and a 3.4% return on sales.
For the fiscal year operating income was $218 million with 1.6% margin.
Average sales price was up 14.4% on 11.3% lower volumes.
Our Beef business has been profitable through this point in Q1.
While the reported USDA cut-out and drop credit versus average cattle costs has been showing a negative margin for quite some time we consistently outperformed this reported relationship with our focus on merchandising premium programs primal mix and ground beef upgrades and yields.
Currently we're optimistic fiscal '13 Beef earnings should be similar to fiscal '12 with upside for more emphasis on value-added beef in the overall mix and fewer market issues like LFTB that we experienced in '12.
We anticipate a reduction of fed cattle supply of 2% to 3% in fiscal '13 with the largest decline beginning in Q3.
However we expect to have adequate cattle supplies in all our plant locations.
The last Cattle on Feed report showed increased placements in Iowa Nebraska Idaho and Washington.
Also keep in mind there have been subtle structural changes over time in the beef complex.
Carcass weights are up requiring fewer head to produce the same number of pounds and we focus on our selling strategy to maximize the cut-out and optimize premium programs.
Our Beef business is extremely efficient.
We maximize revenue through numerous value-added programs like retail case-readies specially trimmed and portioned sub-primals and foodservice steak-cutting operations.
We're able to differentiate from the commodity categories through multiple value-added offerings.
To wrap up my thoughts I'd say that we have some near-term challenges.
But I'm not worried.
We have demonstrated the ability to deliver results in adverse grain or supply/demand conditions as that has become the norm for our businesses.
I have confidence in our team's ability to understand these conditions adjust their plans and stay committed to adding value to our products with customer and consumer needs in mind.
All our business units clearly understand the market fundamentals and what they need to do to continue to be successful.
We are all dedicated to accelerating growth stepping up innovation of products and services and cultivating talent to prepare for the future.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question from Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
I'm just kind of curious.
When you guys laid out your plan of 10% growth for the next 2 years and kind of 2013 numbers can you talk about -- how much of the industry-specific fundamentals matter particularly on the Chicken side versus how much clarity do you have on those 2013 to 2015? The underlying fundamentals that would go into our plan would basically be the numbers you see USDA putting out.
We look at various different analysts and then kind of average all that.
So yes if you -- anyways -- so we just use the average of what those analysts were and it's really for us Ken about pulling the levers that we know we can pull in our business.
We mentioned increased operating efficiencies but -- growing our value-added.
We are being successful in price increases.
Our customers seem to understand that these higher grain prices are going to require higher prices.
We continue to change the structure of a lot of our pricing agreements.
Our fixed-price exposure -- annual fixed-price exposure is going to be single digits after the first of the year.
So you combine those kind of things and Ken that's how we can be so confident about getting better in 2013.
So if the chicken production levels kind of are modestly lower I'm assuming -- I mean call it 0% to 1% you don't -- you see that that -- your ability to get to normalized numbers over a 2-year period is high or low I guess is kind of my question.
It doesn't seem like the chicken guys are cutting and if we stay in this higher feed environment like what gets you to the normal level over the next call it 12 to 18 months? Yes.
I mean -- well first of all if you look at the last couple of quarters you've had corn in excess of $7 delivered; you've had soybean $450 plus close to $500 delivered; and our domestic Chicken business had a 5.7% return on sales in Q4 and a 5.1% for the year.
So yes.
I mean I think if you look at our 1% 1.5% down in production whatever the USDA number is on 2013 and our current view of grain prices sure.
We should be very comfortable very high confidence level in our ability to deliver these results.
Our next question from Ken Goldman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So thanks for giving the 2014 guidance and now you get everyone asking about 2014 and I'll do the same.
But I have a little bit of a different tack.
I'm curious because you have a situation where corn futures are suggesting much lower corn prices for your fiscal 14.
I can't see a situation where chicken production really goes up a huge amount in that time.
So I'm having a very difficult time modeling your Chicken margin in a year like that where chicken production doesn't go up and corn goes down modeling anything below your normalized range at all.
I'm getting above it.
And I know everyone's numbers are different and I'm not asking for guidance on my model but why should we expect only 10% that year? Why shouldn't 2014 be a pretty darn good year when it comes to your Chicken margin? It could be Ken.
For us -- hey 2014 is a long -- pretty far out there to be talking about.
But yes I mean I think at least 10% ought to be in everyone's mind across all of our business.
Remember you -- we got to keep remembering we're a $33-billion multi-protein company not a $33-billion chicken company right? But yes I can't argue with you.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one question just on -- when I hear Tyson talking about focusing more on value-added focusing more on international I go back to hearing Tyson talk about this 5 10 years ago.
And obviously there were some good things that came out of that push but there were some not-so-good things also right where the company arguably took its eye off the ball in terms of efficiency in its commodity chicken beef and pork.
And I'm just curious how we as outsiders gain comfort.
Obviously you're a different company now and Donnie you've done a great job bringing cost efficiency back to the company.
But how do we get comfort that as you start to focus on value-added in international again that perhaps you don't take your eye off the ball elsewhere? Ken that's a great question and frankly it's one that we spend a lot of time talking about around here.
I think the difference is the foundation that's been built.
When we talk about our strategy of accelerate innovate cultivate we always do so based on a platform of fundamental execution -- fundamental executional excellence operating efficiencies lean thinking continuous improvement that type of thing and leveraging a strong balance sheet.
It's taken 3 long hard years to get our balance sheet back in order.
During those 3 years we knew that we needed to build a strong platform of functional excellence.
And we've done that.
I mean -- hey there's always room to improve and we embrace lean thinking and continuous improvement.
So we will never say we're there.
But I can tell you that every person at Tyson Foods understands that we cannot ever take our eye off the ball and we've got to keep that firm foundation in place as we now build on it new platforms new product offerings.
And the thing that gives us it's an idea of the proper cost structure of that new platform because now we know what good looks like.
So great question.
And all I could draw you to is notice the difference in the last 3 years and then layer upon that good cost structure growth in value-added not only in poultry but also in our Prepared Foods business.
And I think we can start seeing a pretty bright future.
Research Division</strong> And then one very quick one.
I assume when you talk about 2013 EPS looking similar to 2012 you're talking about a $1.91 base not the $1.58 GAAP base right? Yes yes yes.
Our next question from Farha Aslam Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just kind of closer in in terms of your Beef business your results were surprisingly good in this quarter and your guidance is quite strong despite the fact that you've lowered your cattle number outlook.
Could you share with us maybe some things that you're doing differently in your Beef business that's allowing you to deliver very solid earnings and provide a very solid outlook despite a contracting cattle supply? Jim? Yes.
The key is I had in my prepared remarks we've put a tremendous amount of effort and focus behind trying to beat the wholesale prices through added value.
So it's a combination of specialty trimmed sub-primals it's in steak cutting it's in case-ready it's in pricing analytics and we spend a lot of time focused on what that forward short-term supply is so we can keep ourselves in balance.
And then we also really put a tremendous amount of effort on a lot of metrics driven towards revenue-to-efficiency metrics.
So the combination is just running what I'd call a very smart business knowing that the supply has come down.
Ironically if you look over the last 5 years -- the last 5-year average by the way is almost like 1.8%.
There's only been 1 year it's been up in 5 years.
So that 2% to 3% is about what we've been experiencing the last 5 years.
So it's a tremendous amount of detail on a whole bunch of issues and continuing to have that value-added above the wholesale market prices.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Donnie when you think about your CapEx investments versus acquisitions what kind of ROIC are you using on CapEx versus acquisitions? And where do you see the most attractive acquisition strategies? And what size of acquisitions are in your target range now? Okay.
So we have a very similar outlook for CapEx as acquisitions because we kind of look at our capital the same way in both.
Typically and it depends on the project Farha internally we're going to have a couple of hundred 250 or so that's going to be in basic M&amp;R [ph].
And so above that in order to keep our capital in line -- once you factor in your weighted average cost of capital we need to be in that 20% to 25% range on income-producing or cost-savings CapEx.
Let me give you a quick example.
Down in Houston we've got a couple of important customers that depend on us in that -- out of that plant for our lunchmeat business.
So we're putting about $30 million into that plant now to increase our cooking and slicing technology in order to take care of that business.
So that project has a very good return on capital.
But then on the acquisition side I'd tell you that our sweet spot is -- probably today in an acquisition that would be $50 million or less.
It would be somebody that makes great food in maybe a regional area that we can capitalize on our strengths as we build that business out.
Now that's not to say that an acquisition sub-$500 million $200 plus whatever might not be in the mix.
But the sweet spot for us right now would probably be in that $50-million range.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you're not looking for kind of larger kind of transformational kind of maybe -- let me take a look -- 2 to like -- more like $4 billion to $5 billion-type transactions those kind of larger big moves? No.
Our next question from Heather Jones BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Is it a fair assumption that your fiscal '14 and '15 commentary assumes for at least fiscal '14 another challenging year in Beef given that you're expecting the tight supplies to become more pronounced in Q3 of '13? We think that we can continue to navigate through the margins.
We do expect the supply -- the calf crop projection for '12 continues to tell us that we'll continue to see that supply reduction.
And again as I answered earlier that's the continued emphasis on trying to add value across the board and we did drop our market share.
We really worked hard at adding the value and working on overall gross margin.
I can't project what will happen across the board in the industry but our plants do sit where the better feedlots appear to be.
And we've seen the last Cattle on Feed flow back kind of into that Nebraska Iowa region.
Research Division</strong> But when I'm looking at '14 and you all are talking about 10% growth I guess first of all Donnie said previously it does seem like Chicken should be better.
You're cutting interest expense and your international business is improving.
So you're not assuming any meaningful improvement in Beef in '14 versus '13 to get to that 10% growth.
That's right.
Correct.
Correct.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Chicken you all talk about your national breadth your value-added offering your customer service.
Just wondering though if you could give us some sector specifics.
Because if you listen to the commentary out there from some large end users but there's also some commentary from some competitors it's been fairly subdued on the amount of pricing that people have been able to get on fixed contracts it seems like whereas you all sound fairly confident.
So was wondering if you could give us some more specifics as to why you're confident and why you may have fared better than others in securing price increases.
Okay.
Good question.
So a couple of things.
We think we have 3 things to leverage: raw materials; resources; and very importantly relationships.
Over the last 3 years we've rebuilt a lot of customer relationships that were suffering.
And frankly we've done that by providing the kind of quality service and the innovative capability that our customers need to grow their business.
One thing too that we've not done is we've not cut our R&amp;D expense.
So we've been working on new packaging new cooking technologies new ingredient technologies.
And these kind of things as our customers see them they see us as a supply partner that they definitely need to keep in the mix.
And based on the fact we're not giving them any excuses not to do business with us we like the fact that we're getting the kind of price that we need commensurate to the value that we're adding to their business.
In terms of new platforms as we move forward we'll be adding products in our Better For You line.
Some of those may be using whole grain breading gluten-free type products.
I think you'll also see us making some strides in ethnic -- in our ethnic offerings in Mexican food in Asian.
Jim mentioned in his call or in his script our handheld category and we're adding some innovation into our handheld category.
So several different lines of products that we'll be introducing this year or upgrading our product mix or adding some incremental innovation to -- that will continue to drive value.
And our focus is on adding value to our customers' business.
And as we do that they pay us for the value we add.
So we stay focused on that.
So I think those are a few of the reasons that might give us some confidence in our ability to cover that incremental cost of say round numbers $600 million that's coming at us this year.
Our next question from Ryan Oksenhendler Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow-up on -- to Heather's question.
It seems like protein per capita consumption has been declining in the U.S.
over the last several years.
So in order to grow your value-added business it seems like you'd have to take some market share.
So I guess what gives you the confidence that you can do that and continue to take the pricing? And it seems like over the last few decades that every time you've seen the incremental margins in this industry you've always been priced away by competitors.
And what gives you the -- so what give you the confidence that over the next few years your value-added business you won't see that margin erosion from competitors taking pricing? Sure.
It comes down to the customers' choice and customers typically choose those who can bring the type of innovation into their business that they need in order to grow their business.
So like I mentioned before we've not cut our R&amp;D expense.
As a matter of fact we've added to it a little bit.
We've added to the ranks of our marketing teams.
And so we're in front of customers helping them with solutions that will grow their business.
And so when there's a choice of who to use as your supply partner as long as you don't have quality and service issues most will choose that innovative partner that can help them grow their business.
That seems to be the case with us.
Also let's not minimize the value of our buy-versus-grow strategy.
Because in a pricing discussion we're not selling any excess on the market today.
And frankly there's been a few opportunities toward an RFP although we would have liked to have continued to be that customer's supply partner we've walked out of the RFP just because the pricing got too cheap.
And as long as you're buying your raw material in our case primarily breast meat although not exclusively breast meat -- as long as you're buying that raw material and you're not excess product then you're able to hold on to your price stream.
So I think the value of our buy-versus-grow strategy also allows us to be more effective in a pricing discussion.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And could you just -- a quick follow-up then.
Can you give us an idea of how much of your business is currently value-added versus commodity and what the difference in margins are -- look like? Yes.
So what we've done in Donnie King's business primarily our poultry and Prepared Foods business we've actually -- as we look at our segments we have some business units inside those segments.
And we've kind of called certain business units commodity business units because a lot of their mix is commodity.
Not all but a lot.
And then other business units are in the more value-added category.
And I'd say today in Donnie King's business and that's probably around a $15-billion business or so your 60 -- low 60s percent is the value-added piece of that.
Now our task over time is to have more and more of the sales in his business as being value-added.
Now let me hasten on to say that we also have value-added categories in Beef and Pork as well and then our international business will continue to grow.
And as we get those -- more and more company-owned birds and away from these wholesale markets that we're so dependent on today our margins will improve substantially in our international business too.
So when you put all that together Ryan I think that's how you get to that call it 3.5% growth for the total is that you're really growing your value-added segments and your international segment a lot faster.
Our next question from Tim Ramey D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Donnie I was interested in the comment where you talked about the spread between your domestic margin and your consolidated poultry margin.
If I did the math right and that's always suspect it looks like you might have lost somewhere in the range of $40 million in the quarter and maybe $120 million plus for the year and they're in the start-up operations in China and Brazil.
Is that -- am I getting to that correctly? Directionally you're right.
It was about $105 million for the year and about $15 million of that was the write-off that we mentioned.
So call it right at $90 million on an operating basis end of the year.
Research Division</strong> So that's bullish from the standpoint of "Hopefully we can minimize those losses over time." Do you have a sense of how that looks in fiscal '13? And also I assume that would be bullish for your tax rate over time as you perhaps get to utilize some of those losses down the road.
Can you comment on that? Yes.
Tim you're dead on.
Our current plan calls for us to reduce those losses by 80% in FY '13 and then for the business to continue at that growth rate and be positive in '14 and beyond.
As we look at our international business about 25% of the chicken that's going to market today is out of company-owned housing.
And so the product offering we have and the price spread between that product offering and the wholesale offering which our wholesale offering is based on market birds that spread is at or above what our pro forma was when we began our international approach.
So the bottom line is we just can't get there fast enough and it's all about getting chicken houses built.
We've got a great quality offering.
The food safety is there that we're looking for.
So all the pieces are in place; it really is just a matter of getting as much of that production into company-owned housing as we can as fast as we can.
So take 80% of that $90 million this year and add that and then keep that growth rate going into '14 and '15.
And you'll -- the math you'll probably see out there that you might question is "Wait a minute.
That kind of looks like you're in maybe low double-digit earnings in your poultry business in China " and that's right.
We don't -- Brazil is a little bit more mature and frankly we've got more work to do to get into more of a value-added mix in Brazil.
But we have added a new sales leader in our Brazilian poultry business and we continue to back them up with great R&amp;D resources there and out of the U.S.
So we feel comfortable we're going to get there but our margin expectations would be a little better in -- well would be better in China than in Brazil.
Tim on your tax rate question you're right.
Our effective tax rate will go down over time because of the jurisdictions that we're in and the foreign markets have substantially lower tax rates.
So that would favorably affect our overall effective tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And -- I mean that all is terrific and I can see that making positive momentum in '13 but -- I mean it is a big step function from $330 million to $600 million of incremental costs.
Can you break down kind of how you see that flowing through the P&amp;L in terms of you would recover x% of that through pricing and x% through cost reductions and x% through mix? Or -- is there a way to kind of help us think about how you could recover some or all of that? Yes sure.
Let me give you an idea of the categories first.
And so number one we mentioned another incremental $100 million in poultry and Prepared Foods operational improvements.
We got -- was it $113 million or $115 million this year guys? $115 million.
$115 million this year which was short of our $125-million target.
But our team worked hard and so we see another $100 million coming there.
The international improvements that's going to be what $70 million $80 million something like that.
That's a big number.
Hey reduced interest expense is going to help on the EPS basis.
We are getting price and mix improvements.
We've got a lunchmeat that we will be fixing this year and I mentioned a little earlier in the call some CapEx going into an important part of that business.
We will probably see we think less market disruption issues this year for example.
I don't have in the plan another LFTB issue and that cost us some money.
And also we probably could have done a better job in Q1 and the very very early stages of Q2 last year on our managing of the choice select spread.
I mentioned some other missteps in our domestic business frankly in Q1 and Q2.
We left quite a bit of money on the table in our wing business followed by by the way an encore presentation in Q3 with messing up on our buy-versus-grow and being a little too dependent on the outside markets which got us above the law of diminishing returns on our breast meat trim.
And that cost us quite a bit of money.
So -- and then again coming to the new market -- coming to the market with these new platforms.
So there are quite a few levers to pull there Tim.
And you add all that up and we bridge the gap.
So that's how we're seeing the year.
Our next question from Akshay Jagdale KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So starting with Chicken just wanted to focus on the short term first.
So can you give us your latest thoughts on what your view is on production levels and the industry's ability to pass on higher feed costs? So for our planned years we have like a 1% 1.5% decrease in production.
Whatever the USDA's showing that's what we're using.
Now on our ability to be able to pass along that increased cost our buy-versus-grow strategy really does reduce our exposure to the volatility in the commodity pricing the commodity pieces of this business.
So when you take that and you combine that with our mix changes and our ability to take price increases I don't -- we're not going to be dependent on the market necessarily for our future.
It really is about reducing our exposure to the commodity side with our buy-versus-grow strategy and improving our value-added mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I was to -- I'm interpreting your commentary on fiscal '13 as being previously you just said you were going to be profitable.
Now you're saying profitable but could be below normalized range.
So I'm viewing that as previously you were saying 0% to 1% and now you're saying maybe 0% to 7%.
I don't -- is that the right way to think about it? Yes yes yes.
You're thinking about it right.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just longer term -- again I appreciate all the color.
So first of all when you talked about a new base is the right way to think about it as Tyson's going to earn $1.90 despite any challenges thrown their way? So is that sort of a bottom EPS number? Because you did have some significant challenges that you dealt with in the last 2 years: higher grain cost LFTB.
I mean I could go on and on.
So is that a better way to think about it? Is that sort of a baseline that you feel comfortable you can do in any environment? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of growth you talked about 2 major levers on your top line.
And I'm just looking at 10% growth off of whatever EBIT you had this year and it's $120 million-ish I think for fiscal '14.
I could get that number just out of your China business and so it seems like the growth that you're modeling is going to come even if the rest of your business other than international and value-added doesn't grow at all.
Is that sort of a good way to think about it as well? Yes.
There's always a few things that happen that are unexpected in any given year.
And as I said here today it's hard to tell what unexpected things are going to hit us in '14.
But we feel comfortable that with the foundation we've laid and the balance sheet we've got and the team we have in place that we're going to be able to not just overcome the hills and the challenges that come but also be able to grow our business and grow our EPS with all the levers we have to pull and with the innovation that we can bring to the market.
So yes I think you're thinking about it right.
Research Division</strong> And just on China I think previously -- I may be wrong but previously you had said China should be within sort of a normal range of earnings by fiscal '14.
Is that now pushed back to '15 if I'm reading it correctly? Or still...
Yes we meant -- I'm sorry we meant by the end '14 which you would see fully in the '15 year.
Now Akshay that is dependent on us staying on track with our current housing plan but I see no reason to believe we won't do that.
So yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one.
So why did you -- again I appreciate you giving us this guidance but I'm just trying to get into your head here.
Why did you feel there was a need to make these positive sort of long-term comments now? Like why now? And what's the biggest risk to Tyson sort of not being able to grow from here on from an earnings perspective in your opinion? Okay.
Good question.
So number one is we felt like -- that we needed to build some credibility.
Because as we go out and talk to investors '08 and '09 continues to come up.
Well I think 3 years of solid results in the face of gosh in the last 2 years $1 billion of incremental grain cost and all of the things that we mentioned on our list in the script prove that we have laid a solid foundation.
But it's not about just having a solid foundation; it's about building a house right? And so the way -- what we got to do is we've got to accelerate our growth and we've talked about doing that in value-added we've talked about doing that in the Prepared Foods segment and in our international.
And a big component of that is having the right innovative capability not just in new products but also in processes and analytics and packaging and ingredients and those kinds of things.
We have those resources and now it's time to put them to use.
So we think we have the credibility because we've built a 3-year foundation and part of our culture says we're going to do what we say we're going to do.
Well you got to say you're going to do something in order to do what you say you're going to do.
So now we've said what we're going to do and over the next 3 years in this horizon then we'll do what we say we're going to do.
So that's really what it's been about Akshay.
Our next question from Christine McCracken Cleveland Research.
Jim you mentioned that we're going to see these tighter beef supplies over the next year.
That doesn't come as a huge shock I don't think to anyone.
But where we're -- we seem to be hitting a bit of a wall is on prices both here in the U.S.
and in export markets from a demand perspective.
Seems to be some pushback by consumers and I'm wondering -- as it relates to your strategy as you sell into the market you have a strong premium program here in the U.S.
for example and now you've got the expanded access to Japan coming.
It seems like -- can you talk about how you think about recouping some of that pricing with cattle costs moving higher in the next year? Well first of all generally if you look back in history cattle cost and revenue are very highly related.
So as the cut-out and drop credit moves up and down the cattle cost over time will get fairly correlated back to that.
So I always remind people that we make money in a spread business like beef packing and the slope could change.
And then on top of that -- and that USDA reported cut-out is the strongest relationship; thus our whole thrust to always try to beat that relationship through value-added pricing timing et cetera.
I don't know that the price -- we've heard repeated years that we're going to hit the ceiling and we seem to break through it into higher overall cut-out every year which simply says to me that even though we've had some demand destruction what we're seeing is that the supply reduction really is at a slightly faster rate than the demand destruction because we keep moving to higher prices.
At what point that hits a true ceiling I don't know.
My theory is simply that people who want to buy beef buy beef and the price point isn't the major deterrent.
And ground beef is a staple and ground beef pricing has continued to go up year-over-year.
So the short answer is I don't know that we're going to see a true price ceiling and our job is to navigate through that in the spread business.
Is -- expanded access to Japan and better export pricing is that in your outlook for '13? Actually we do think that that will be supportive to pricing but it's not necessarily built into our -- in how we look at fiscal '13's operating income.
Just like cost access we don't really look at that as anything other than it affects the slope of the change so...
Any impact from plant closures anticipated over the next year? No other than we continue to see and we continue to operate our plants at fewer hours.
So we're just focused on really what our immediate supply base is and we try to make sure that we plan our work according to what that forward supply looks like it's going to be out in the 4- to 8-week zone.
Our next question from Diane Geissler CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the open-market purchases of product and what you think that provided in terms of earnings this year.
And then to the extent that you're looking at next year being total industry production flat to down slightly what you think the availability will be next year on the open market.
And then also kind of part 2 of that question is you cited in your release that there were incremental grow-out operating costs of $50 million for the full year.
I just wanted to know what those were.
And also what's the outlook on -- are you just going to see those reverse? Or is that higher labor or higher energy? Or what really that encompassed? Okay.
I think I got it.
So first of all on the outside purchases we were running around 60 loads a week or so give or take 5 something like that.
It's hard to say what the true dollar value of that is other than this: we don't have excess to sell which always sells a whole -- well frankly it sells at what we buy this outside meat for and I'd a lot rather be buying it because we're buying below cost and selling it.
And then number two is you get incremental price courage because you've already adjusted your cost -- plant cost footprint to a couple of complexes of breast meat below where you are and by the way we have a good cost structure even though we run it at below -- well below plated capacity.
So that's how we look at the outside purchases.
As far as going forward I see no reason to believe that the meat won't be out there.
And again it's a buy-versus-grow strategy.
If meat starts drying up and we need more we can adjust.
But I see no reason to believe that the amount of meat that we'll be looking for on the outside market won't still be there.
As to the other costs in our grow-out cost it's primarily 2 things: grower cost which went up; and our chick cost which went up.
Now I'll hasten on to say there were fairly good improvements in a lot of the other costs like feed conversion and our -- some of the other aspects of our live production.
Our live production team in poultry has done a fabulous job but those 2 cost factors did go up.
So I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And then I wanted to ask one question on the balance sheet.
To the extent that -- I think you're fairly well termed out in kind of where you want to be so I know you've got incremental working capital needs this year but to the extent that you're sort of done with the debt paydown what is your priority in terms of cash usage? Is it -- I know you increased your dividend and you have a special dividend and you bought in shares but can you just prioritize? Sure.
It's Dennis.
As always it's growth focused so that's going to be for CapEx around our existing businesses.
And then it's going to be acquisitions potentially around value-added and international.
And then it would be around returning cash to shareholders in the form of stock buybacks and dividends.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's left on your share authorization? Over 30 million shares.
Our next question from Robert Moskow Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the definition of value-added.
As you extend more and more into it or grow value-added more I think that there is a risk that you get distracted from your core mission of being a low-cost or a very efficient commodity processor.
Can you give us a bit more clarity on how much of that value-added is what I would describe as like consumer packaged goods-type of product? You mentioned lunchmeat and hotdogs and even frozen handheld items.
Can you give us a sense of like what are the sales of those types of items that are maybe -- that maybe require a different skill set like a consumer marketing skill set versus the rest of value add that might be more of a -- more commoditized? Sure.
In poultry you need to be thinking of further processed; value-added; cooked whether it's breaded or not; or fire fried whether it's breaded or not type items.
In the other Prepared Foods segment certainly our lunchmeat offerings pizza toppings soup sausage and side dishes items that either have -- contain bread or are in a tortilla.
For example we're the nation's second-largest tortilla manufacturer.
So those type of items.
Sandwich meats -- movement in all of those type areas and be thinking too of meat as an ingredient not necessarily just a meat item.
So it's really a lot more around a packaged food-type offering.
And let me hasten on to say we have added complement in our marketing ranks in our poultry and Prepared Foods businesses and we've got a great talented group that understands the value they need to add and how they need to position it in the marketplace under multiple brands.
We do have the Tyson brand Jim mentioned the Wright brand in his script and we have several other brands that we use in our value-added offering.
So Jim you want to add anything to that? Yes.
The only thing I'd add is we're very attentive to not losing focus on the basics and we really preach very hard about the 40-60 rule.
You got to be looking forward but you can't spend all your time looking forward and not take care of your basics.
But on the contrary you can't spend all your time in your basics and not look forward.
So we call it the management balance rule which is the 40-60 rule because I think your point is well taken and we certainly have read enough history and know our own history that you can never lose sight of that basic balance.
And so we will keep our focus on the basics.
Don't -- you can be assured of that.
Research Division</strong> Donnie can you help me understand like with Hormel and Oscar and Hillshire all kind of slugging it out in sandwich meats and hotdogs what's the role of the Tyson brand for the retailer? Like what gap is that filling in the merchandising set? Yes.
We typically in the Tyson brand have a mid-tier offering.
By the way 5 6 lines of chicken lunchmeat which are doing very well where they're offered today and then we complement that of course with other traditional lunchmeat items.
So a mid-tier offering typically on the Tyson brand.
And we're also a large private label lunchmeat supplier.
So as you hear a bit about the share battle between the brands and private label we pack a lot of private label lunchmeat.
The only thing I'd add to that is the raw material inflation we've seen over time has been our opportunity to diversify that portfolio with chicken as a base material and to add more value to our raw materials.
Our final question from Tim Tiberio Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could go back to the comments around acquisitions are you currently seeing more attractive opportunities in the international versus domestic markets? And then my second question going back to your comments on the value-added growth in the international markets do you think that you will need to make more acquisitions especially on the distribution side to really make a real dent in those markets over the next few years? Tim those are great questions.
But I tell you I'm a little uncomfortable talking very much about the opportunities.
We -- I can tell you this.
We do have a bit of activity in both international and domestic markets.
But as far as getting very specific about those I just don't feel comfortable commenting about that.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today and I hope everybody has a very happy Thanksgiving.
We'll see you later.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the first quarter of our 2013 fiscal year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer.
Because our shareholders' meeting is this morning we need to end the call by 9:15 Central.
[Operator Instructions] We'll answer as many of your questions as we can until 9:15.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us today.
$0.48 a share is a good start to the fiscal year and was a little better than our expectations.
How the results broke out among the segments was a little different than we originally thought but that's the advantage of our multi-protein multichannel multinational business model.
Sometimes we run into some hurdles in one area but we make up ground in others.
It's a balanced approach that over time has led to and should continue to produce steadier more consistent earnings growth.
Our sales team has done an excellent job of getting paid for the value that we provide our customers.
In our poultry business we reduced annual fixed price contracts to less than 10% of the total improved pricing in that segment to help make up the $170 million in additional feed cost compared to first quarter of a year ago.
Looking at demand expectations for 2013.
The consensus is that food service will be flat maybe up 1% primarily driven by population growth.
With consumers burdened by sluggish job growth the prospect of rising food costs the loss of the payroll tax cut and uneasiness about the future forecast could have been much worse.
We believe food service demand will hold up and should stay steady this year.
The foodservice categories that are expected to show growth include chain restaurants lodging hospitals senior living and contract feeders.
The area expected to be down slightly include convenience stores recreation schools due to the new guidelines corrections independent restaurants and small chains.
Tyson is well positioned in all categories and especially among leading national and regional chains noncommercial and large operators.
Our area of concern continues to be the struggling independent operator segment.
In terms of addressing consumer needs we're finding that food bought on value menus has been declining now for 2 years.
Instead operators have been attracting patrons with new products and promotions by adding servings of breakfast sandwiches chicken nuggets tacos fried chicken sandwiches and wraps.
At the same time servings of burgers seafood pizza soup and pasta have declined.
Our diverse portfolio and increased flexibility give us the opportunity to take advantage of these type of swings in consumption.
Overall the need to connect the right product with the right consumer hasn't changed.
We're helping our operator and distributor customers by delivering products that offer the premium quality cues that meet consumers' need for perceived value while helping restore customer margins.
Retail demand forecasts are basically flat and will depend on what happens to prices at the gas pumps and the retailers' willingness to invest.
For the 52-week period ending November 24 total retail fresh meat pounds sold were down 1.3%.
Beef was down 4.9% Pork was up 2.2% and Chicken was up 1.1%.
Even more importantly to us Tyson-branded fresh chicken pounds sold increased by nearly 10% with dollar sales up almost 12%.
So overall total domestic availability would indicate 3% fewer pounds of beef and roughly 1% more pounds of pork and chicken in 2013.
Now throwing a lot of demand information at you but basically what this means to us is that we can't wait for unemployment to improve or the economy to get better to grow our business and I assure you that is not our plan.
Our strategy is to accelerate our growth in domestic value-added poultry and Prepared Foods as well as international poultry and we're executing that strategy.
You remember I said on our Q4 call that we expect top line sales growth of 3% to 4% annually value-added sales growth should grow at twice that rate or 6% to 8% and sales from international production should grow at twice that rate or 12% to 16% a year.
Some of the steps we're taking to grow our domestic value-added sales include expanding 3 plants.
We plan to spend more than $27 million on our Sherman Texas; Goodlettsville Tennessee; and Glen Allen Virginia plants.
Both the Texas and Tennessee plants produce case-ready beef and pork.
The Virginia plant produces further processed chicken for national food service customers.
We've also recently begun operations at our new Bruss steak-cutting operation in Jacksonville Florida after a $13 million investment there.
All 4 of these plant are great locations with an excellent workforce.
These are major investments to help support key customers and they'll create as many as 490 new jobs.
Turning to our progress in accelerating international chicken production our performance in Mexico largely offset startup losses in China.
That is very encouraging and gives us confidence that our international poultry operations will make the significant improvement that we expected for the year.
We're making progress in building our chicken farms to supply our plants in China.
We're about 1/3 of the way toward our goal of growing all of our own birds and eliminating the need to buy any market birds which will provide more consistent higher-quality products for our customers while allowing us to be much more efficient processor.
I'm very pleased with the progress we're making in Brazil too.
Sales in pricing are up and value-added sales are improving both domestically and with our exports from Brazil into Europe.
Everything I've talked about today is part of our strategy to accelerate our growth.
We feel very good about our ability to produce solid earnings this year and there are signs of strength in the back half that make us even more optimistic than on our last call.
I told our team last week that they've done a great job of building a foundation that will allow us to grow this business now and for years to come.
We've been working to get our sales in this position and it's exciting to see that happening knowing how much potential there is.
That concludes my remarks.
Dennis will now give you the financial update followed by Jim who'll discuss our operating segment.
Dennis? Thank you Donnie and good morning everyone.
As Donnie mentioned we reported first quarter earnings of $0.48 per share.
This represents a 14% increase over the $0.42 we reported a year ago.
I would also like to note that on an adjusted basis our rolling 4-quarter EPS is $1.97.
Pretax return on invested capital for the past 12 months was 17.3%.
Capital expenditures were $157 million for the quarter as we continue to invest in projects for both our domestic and foreign operations that result in improved productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix.
Operating cash flow came in at $190 million and this includes cash outflows just over $120 million related primarily to an increase in inventory plan to support our customers' promotional activities and volume needs.
I'm pleased to say we returned more than $150 million to our shareholders during the first quarter.
We acquired 5.1 million shares for $100 million under our share repurchase program.
In addition to these repurchases we also increased our regular dividend rate by 25% and combined with a special dividend of $0.10 per share we paid just over $50 million in dividends.
Including cash of $951 million net debt was just under $1.5 billion.
Total liquidity was $1.9 billion well above the upper end of our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt remained at just over $2.54 billion which will continue until we retire the convertible notes coming due in October this year.
At this point we expect to pay off these notes with cash.
Net debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months remained at 0.8x.
On a gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 1.4x.
We reduced net interest expense by 23% compared to a year ago to $36 million.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was 36.3%.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter was $362 million.
This reflects the dilutive share effect of options and convertible notes of $7 million.
The impact of the 5.1 million shares repurchased during the quarter will not be fully realized until subsequent quarters.
But I would like to take a moment to discuss the impact of our share repurchase program.
As a result of the 27.3 million shares we have repurchased since reactivating this program our Q1 EPS was positively impacted by $0.03.
On an annualized basis we estimate the cumulative repurchases to date will impact EPS by $0.14 holding all other factors constant.
Now here are some thoughts on the remainder of fiscal '13.
We expect revenues of approximately $35 billion up approximately 5% over 2012.
Net interest expense should approximate $140 million.
The effective tax rate should be around 35.5% and our CapEx plan remains at $550 million which may increase as we move through the year.
Our priorities for excess cash remain intact with what was laid out during our last call which include additional capital spending to improve and grow our existing businesses acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products and our international footprint and returning cash to shareholders the repurchases and dividends all while maintaining plenty of liquidity.
In summary we are off to a great start in fiscal '13 to produce earnings better than last year despite any challenges we currently face.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a closer look into our operating segments.
Thanks Dennis and good morning.
Pork segment had a 9.2% return on sales and $125 million in operating income in the first fiscal quarter.
Our average sales price per pound was down 5.5% on 2.2% lower volume compared to Q1 last year.
USDA reported prices and hog prices were down 8.4% and 6.7% respectively year-over-year.
Production was up about 1% and total U.S.
exports were down resulting in more pork domestic availability.
Price and volumes were down as a result of balancing supply with demand; however the Pork segment still produced very good margins in the quarter.
We expect hog supplies to be flat and total exports to be lower compared to fiscal '12.
We expect our Pork margins to be close to our overall fiscal '12 performance.
Turning to the Prepared Foods segment.
We had a 3.9% return on sales and $33 million in operating income.
Our volume was up 1.8% while average sales price per pound was down 4.1% over last year predominately from lower raw material costs.
Our costs were higher in our lunchmeat business creating margin compression as we continue to invest in that business which reduced the whole segment.
We've talked in the past about our desire to grow sales of Prepared Foods in the convenience store channel and in Donnie's remarks you heard him say that we expect demand to be challenged in that particular channel of food service.
That isn't a disconnect.
Food traffic is expected to be down at c-stores overall but there's still a tremendous opportunity for growth for our products simply because we're underpenetrated.
Next month Tyson will be hosting the second C-Store News Foodservice Summit to help convenience store channels enhance their prepared food offerings using our proprietary research consumer insights and products.
This is one of many ways we're accelerating value-added growth through innovation.
We were very pleased with our Chicken segment in the first quarter and we had a 3.6% return on sales and $107 million in operating income despite $170 million in incremental feed costs.
Excluding our China startup losses return on sales was 4.3%.
Average sales price per pound was up 8.2% on 1.1% less volume versus Q1 last year.
Our chicken prices were higher year-over-year as we focus on getting paid for the value we provide our customers managing our sales mix and our value-added growth.
Our increased inventory was intentional in anticipation of promotional activities and volume needs of several large customers.
USDA projections indicate chicken production will be relatively flat this year compared to last year.
We currently expect feed cost to be approximately $600 million more than fiscal '12.
The capital investments and operational improvements we made in our Chicken business coupled with changes in our mix and pricing have put us in a position to better handle rising feed cost while maintaining our expected levels of profitability.
In the Beef segment we had a 1.3% return on sales and $46 million in operating income.
Our average sales price per pound was up 11.7% and our volume was down 10% compared to Q1 last year.
The USDA reported cut-out was up 2.7% while cattle costs were up 1.9% year-over-year.
The fed steer and heifer slaughter was down 1.6% while carcass weights were up 2.7%.
We pull back on the number of head we processed in an effort to maintain prices and our sole position.
In other words we opted for margin not market share.
And as a result our performance relative to USDA prices achieved a new record for our Beef division in Q1.
Our boxed beef exports were up while the estimated U.S.
boxed beef total is down  for the quarter.
Additionally the contribution from premium programs was up an incremental 30% -- 37%.
This is an illustration of how we improve our overall mix and revenue.
We expect to see a reduction of industry-feed cattle supply of 2% to 3% in fiscal '13 compared to last year primarily in the third and fourth fiscal quarters.
Although we generally expect adequate supplies in the regions where we operate our plants there may be periods of supply and demand imbalance.
We anticipated a B plant would close likely come offline in the first half of the calendar year and we saw that announcement in the third week of January.
This helps to correct the supply imbalance between beef packing capacity and the declining fed steer and heifer availability accelerated by the past 2 years of drought.
We are pleased Japan is going to open to 30 month in younger cattle.
Japan was historically a good market for a variety of meats which limited -- which was limited by the 20-month age restriction.
We anticipate realizing more revenues from the Japanese rising meat market the coming months.
For boxed beef products the items Japan imported were already being exported to other countries but this news should help overall Beef export demand in future months.
Our focus will continue to be on maximizing the total revenue and managing for margin.
I think our results in the first quarter and our response to market conditions demonstrate our ability to anticipate change get plans in place and execute.
I'm proud of our team and have every confidence in their ability to keep it going.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Farha Aslam.
Research Division</strong>   So our first question is on Chicken.
You've just finished the food service contracting season.
Donnie you'd highlighted that only 10% of your contracts are now fixed.
Could you just share with us how you felt about the level of pricing and flexibility you were able to get? And what gives you confidence to be able to say that Chicken should be in the normalized range in the second half? So we're pretty satisfied as we've come through our negotiations not necessarily just on food service side but also in retail and pricing.
It has been very important to us to continue to work down how many annual fixed price agreements we have.
And as of now coming into calendar '13 we're at 9% which is if you'll remember dramatically less than where we were say 4 years ago.
And Farha we've also seen an increase in the amount of product that is sold where pricing is tied to some part of the input cost grain-based pass-throughs those types of things which gives us more confidence going into the year.
But I'll tell you too our service our quality our innovative capabilities all those are part of the selling story and we're getting paid for that.
So we're pleased now.
A lot of that pricing will be coming into play during this quarter.
Some of those contracts don't roll over until first of February first of March those kinds of things.
So we still have to work through that in this quarter.
But that's what gives us a bit more confidence in our back half.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then perhaps a follow-up on Beef.
Since your last outlook you've seen Cargill close a plant you've seen Japan open up.
But it in your release your outlook on Beef was exactly what it was last quarter.
Just could you share with us is it conservatism that's keeping your outlook the same? Or is it something else? No it's conservatism.
I mean we somewhat anticipated that sometime during this year we'd probably see some capacity come out.
And we'll see as Japan comes on stream.
We're hopeful to get a good share of that variety of meat demand in boxed beef.
Maybe really just conservatism until the market shapes up and we have a better forward view.
But it all looks fairly favorable going forward.
Our next question comes from Heather Jones.
Research Division</strong> Real quick question on Beef.
I just wanted to confirm because you said in your prepared remarks but I want to make sure I am clear -- or everyone's clear on this.
But in your guidance on your Q4 call you talked about being below the normalized range.
So you're saying that when you gave that commentary you had anticipated some kind of capacity rationalization? Yes we just had no idea for sure where that might happen.
But over time as that was starting to shape up and we started to see the steer and heifer supply diminish with the calf crops accelerated by the drought just knowing that history would likely repeat itself we thought it would happen.
We just didn't know where.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Chicken demand has been really strong.
But if you look at the past couple of months production has been up pretty substantially and that's even before we started seeing an expansion in the exits and now we're starting to see some expansion in exits.
Does that concern you at all? Or your outlook for chicken demand is it so robust that you believe overall demand can absorb these kind of production increases? Heather this is Donnie.
So I use a 6-week average.
So as we look at the last 6 weeks poultry slaughter pounds have been up 2.7%.
A lot of that has been driven by weight because placements have been at about just shy of 1% other than that time period and slaughter head has been up 1%.
So we're picking up about 0.7% -- 1.7% of those slaughter pounds in weight.
January is typically a pretty strong month and I think typically you would see weights come down during the month of January.
We run a lot of Saturdays in January.
It's just a good volume month.
But let me give you a little bit -- and this is going to be on fresh chicken but let me give you a little bit of recent data which gives us some optimism going forward.
If you look at the last I'm going to go -- I'm going to start at 26 weeks fresh chicken pounds are up 2.8%.
Dollar sales are up 8.5%.
If you tighten that up to a 13-week view pounds are still up 2.7%.
Dollar sales are up 9.2%.
Now if you go to the last 4 weeks fresh chicken pounds and this would be sold at retail is up 4.3% and dollar sales are up 10.6%.
So what we're beginning to think and it'll take a little bit more time to flesh this out and see if we're right but what we're beginning to think is that with all of these pressures on consumers today maybe we are now seeing a legitimate shift from red meat proteins into chicken.
And if that's the case we'll be able to absorb the 2.7% slaughter pound increase and still maintain the margins and pricing.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> So I'm going to focus on Chicken as well.
So just on your second half outlook being more positive than before I'm trying to get to the bottom of that.
So the way I see it from 3 months ago supply has exceeded everyone's expectations.
Grain costs are flat and prices have been much better.
So I mean just what you said 2 seconds ago about pricing being stronger tells us that demand seems to be stronger than anyone had expected.
So I'd love to get some color on it.
I mean you talked talk about a share shift but we've been talking about that for 3 years and it sort of never has happened where people are eating more chicken now because beef is too expensive.
So I just want to get more color on it.
And more importantly what are the chances that supply outpaces the demand right? So if every chicken company starts seeing that there's a positive trend they're going to step on the accelerator and get supply up.
I know you're not doing it because you're fine in the open market but help me understand that because I think that's maybe what's driving your more positive view on demand.
Okay.
So I'm going to touch on a couple of things.
If you look at our Q1 -- pricing in Q1 now remember we do a lot of price negotiations in the fall November December that time period that will kick in in Jan Feb March too okay? So -- but in the fall pricing covered the incremental grain of $100.
I think grain was up $160 $170 in pricing well not necessarily just pricing but price volume and mix covered that okay? So we would expect that -- or we do expect that to continue particularly in our business.
Now you mentioned that the production is up higher than what we thought yes.
But if you look at industry benchmarking services 75% to 80% of the industry on a contribution basis is profitable.
We wouldn't have thought that 4 5 months ago either.
So it does appear from anecdotal evidence that pricing is covering a lot of the input cost and that had to happen.
One other thing about our business in particular and you noted that the fact that we remain a buyer of raw material and now we're buying probably 45 50 loads a week something like that of breast meat or average that in Q1 anyway.
But our value-added poultry business also grew round numbers call it 4%.
And that category was probably down close to 3% in terms of center of the plate protein frozen and frozen meat snacks.
So in Q1 we grew our value-added in an environment where it was down.
We have a lot of promotional activity planned for subsequent quarters.
And those are -- the combination of those things are what gives us confidence in the back half.
And we mentioned before we got some costs levers that we still have to pull and other things that will be coming to fruition too.
Our guys have done a great job in live production.
So I better leave it there.
I could go on and on.
Research Division</strong> So just one follow-up there.
So basically is it fair to say that Tyson -- you feel comfortable today that you achieved normalized margins in the back half basically no matter what the industry is going to do on supply right? I mean there's some limitations to supply increases.
We know that.
But do you feel comfortable saying that? I mean it seems like it's a more price-specific confidence.
Yes based on what we see today absolutely.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about Prepared Foods for a second? I'm just curious you mentioned a couple of things in there that explained why your EBIT was down year-on-year.
How long should we expect those items to continue to impair the margin there? Things like investing in the lunchmeat business for example.
Yes I think we mentioned on the last call we're going to make a fairly significant investment in our Houston lunchmeat plant.
And hey while that's going to take a vast investment the equipment that we're putting in there will take a few weeks by the way to actually put work to happen.
And so we're in the process of building up and getting our product in place so we don't have any service issues during that shutdown.
That always adds some incremental costs.
So I'd say over the next quarter and a half or so call it 4 or 5 months it's going to impact us a little bit.
But the results coming out of that will be very good for our business.
Yes during the interim we'll be less efficient than we want to be to maintain that service level.
And that lunchmeat piece in Prepared Foods by the way is the piece that is the drag on earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up on lunchmeat as a category it seems to be getting some good attention from some of the larger manufacturers out there seems to be some more innovation coming.
Can you talk about that category what you're seeing there right now? Is it rational? Is there more innovation coming? Do you think it's going to be as good a category as perhaps some of your competitors do over the next year or 2? For the year let's go to 52-week ended actually lunchmeat category in dollar sales was down 1.9%.
So what that means for us is innovation.
And we're working on several items.
Now I would spread that past just lunchmeat to let's call it processed meats because it may include dinner sausages and other type of Prepared Foods items.
Particularly in lunchmeat we've got several different flavors of chicken lunchmeat which are doing very well.
And so I think you'll see some innovation in the lunchmeat particularly.
But in our Prepared Foods don't just think lunchmeat think a little more broadly to smoked meats and other processed meats.
And we've got a lot of innovation that we're working on that we'll be bringing to market over the next 6 to 8 months or so in that category.
So we feel good about that.
Our next question comes from Christine McCracken.
Just -- you mentioned the higher weights that we've seen in Chicken here and maybe the seasonal effect but we had an awfully warm winter last year and it didn't seem like there's a lot of stress.
I'm just curious if you think that guys are moving back to larger weight given the optimism in the chicken markets and what that might mean for pricing over the summer months.
I see no evidence of that and I draw that conclusion from this stack.
We over the last year to 18 months are typically about 20 points below the non-Tyson industry average on weight.
And so we continue to be over the last 6- to 8-week average 21 points below the average non-Tyson weight.
Now our average weight is up a little bit versus what we planned and that is a function of the good weather in Q1.
But we're running hard now.
We got really strong demand and we're as we add Saturdays we're pulling that weight down.
So I would suspect -- that anecdotal evidence would tell me that industry weights are up because of weather not for any other reason.
All right.
Just as a follow-up.
You've got C test coming into the summer presumably.
Could spike here with the tightness in the grain specs.
I'm just curious if you'd comment on your exposure to grain and where you are on that.
Our Q2 cost of goods is pretty much baked in.
We've got probably as we normally do 3 to 4 weeks of coverage -- 2 to 3 weeks of coverage in corn about the same on meal.
We view that grains probably -- grain futures are probably going to trade somewhere like a 700 750 range and you may have some temporary moves a little bit below that or a little bit above that.
So as we move closer to the low end of that range we add to our position.
And then as we get up into the upper part of that range we grind -- what we call we grind our coverage.
And so we would continue to do that going into the spring.
I think we're all looking for big plannings.
And as we get closer to the end of March that's probably going to have some psychological effect on the market.
But from here on out it's going to be weather.
Our next question comes from Ken Zaslow.
Can you compare and contrast the implication of Cargill's closure to the closure of your Emporia facility? Yes.
Specifically on all the moving parts or just -- a little bit more on the question for clarity just for me so I know where to focus my attention.
Well I guess when you guys closed your facility beef packer margins from the industry standpoint moved up probably about $60 per head within 4 to 5 months and stayed pretty positive for 2 years.
So I guess what I'm trying to figure out is why that would not be the case -- or maybe it is the case and you kind of -- I know -- I sense your sense of conservatism but again if you compare and contrast the environment then and now and is there the likelihood that you can have that same situation where look by fourth quarter this year you guys could be back in your normalized range? Maybe you won't be there for the full year but maybe you'll there in the fourth quarter and going into 2014.
Yes let me add a little bit more color to that.
Now I clearly understand I think what your question is.
When we did Emporia there was excess slaughter capacity and we had a plant in Emporia that really was deficit cattle.
It was on the eastern end of the -- of that cattle feeding zone.
And so we were inefficient at that plant predominantly from freight costs moving cattle.
But what we did was we only closed the slaughter portion of that plant.
And at that point in time our other operations were fairly inefficient because they were trying to manage a very value-added mix which was decreasing their daily efficiencies and their hourly efficiencies.
So our boost to slaughter capacity wasn't just from the shift in capacity utilization and phases in that the region.
It had as much to do with the fact that we were able to balance our value-added mix by moving certain products to Emporia to continue to add value to them through more trimming boning and semi-portioning.
And then our other plants efficiency improved dramatically from both a daily efficiency and then hourly -- pounds per man hour efficiency.
So we got a good boost in addition to that.
But if you simply look at what's happened with this announcement it was 4% of the fed steer and heifer slaughter daily capacity and it was 10% roughly from my estimation in plants in that greater region of about 300 miles zone from there.
So it does a lot of good to try to adjust the excess slaughter capacity particularly in that region.
I'm just hesitant to put a number at this point in time on how much -- how favorable it will be.
It will be favorable over the long run and so we're optimistic.
But I wanted to give you a little bit more thought on -- there were more changes than just the pure slaughter capacity capacity utilization that happened at Emporia because we were able to improve our operations dramatically in our other plants as we move product to Emporia for further processing.
And Emporia was generally in the freight lane where that product was headed anyhow.
So we have a lot of other gains from that.
And my follow-up question which happened to be in a different division is once you're done with the reinvestment in the Prepared Foods why would your margins not structurally be higher? And would you be thinking about increasing your "normalized range margin" for that business? If you spend this much money why would you think that their normalized margin in 2014 would be higher? Well we are optimistic about our business going forward.
It'll be a lot -- it will have a lot more to do with -- we're putting $30 million into 1 of 22 locations.
So that in and of itself is not going to change the whole game for us.
But if you'll remember we've expanded capacity in our pepperoni facilities.
We continue to work this segment hard because we think there's a lot of growth there.
And over time we do expect it to not only grow but to expand.
But to link all of that to what we're doing in Houston would be a little too optimistic on that change.
Jim would you add anything there? We needed to get ourselves more efficient and more productive in that change.
We expect to be fully incremental.
But again that base is so big that's why we haven't really thought about it at this point quantifying the total impact of the whole.
And again there's other moving parts in that Prepared Foods segment.
That's a very diverse segment in our company.
Our next question comes from Ryan Oksenhendler.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk a little bit about the export markets for each protein and even specifically pork? Jim I guess I was surprised to hear you say that exports would be down in the year.
It seems like there's plenty of pork in the U.S.
and you keep hearing about Europe cutting significantly maybe on the order of 5% and that the U.S.
would kind of pick up some market share in the export markets.
So can you just talk about that and maybe what needs to happen for Chicken to get leg quarters above that $0.51 $0.52 level? Sure.
Let you talk about all 3.
Specifically in Pork there's a gap here you got to get into our fiscal year which included Ardneral Dee's [ph] in '12.
And that looks like at least through November was down and I think December will be down keeping in mind that the prior year was so big.
And then Jan Feb March of a year ago was a very very strong export quarter for Pork.
And you're right Europe's production should be down.
My other reasons to state that I don't think it will be as great as last year I think it will still be a very big year probably be the second-biggest year as the current issue on ractopamine in Pork into Russia that probably will spend some -- need some time to get resolved.
But if very well I could -- I've been very wrong on projecting exports before.
But against just those 2 strong first -- our first half months last year it looked to me like it would be difficult sort of to equal them or surpass them but they'll still be very strong.
So that hopefully gives you some color on Pork.
Beef we're very encouraged with the opening of Japan to 30 months and down predominantly on that variety meat side.
But also we think that increases the demand over the bulk of the items in Beef that were going to other countries.
And we expect to see some domestic disappearance and some increase in pricing as we go forward.
On Chicken we expect to see exports to continue.
We expect to see continued diversification from Russia.
We see some more interest across other parts of the world potentially Egypt potentially Africa the Americas.
We're not anticipating a major chicken shift into Mexico.
So we would consider even though chicken exports were up 4% year-over-year on the best estimate against the calendar year last year we don't really see anything negative going forward and might see a slight increase or potentially even more increase.
Again world supplies of chicken seem to be pulled back particularly in South America and across some other countries.
So it's very possible that we could see an increase in overall chicken exports.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Jim I appreciate that.
And then just real quickly I was surprised by the cash flow generation in the quarter despite the inventory build and the higher grain costs.
If you -- could you give us a target for the year for free cash flow or cash flow from operations? No we don't really give any kind of guidance along those lines.
You can certainly expect it to continue to be strong for the year.
And we get back to what we always say about our priorities for excess cash and that's to invest in growth through CapEx and acquisitions still on acquisitions that might help us with our value-added strategy or international and then returning cash to shareholders.
Our next question comes from Tim Ramey.
Research Division</strong> Jim thinking back to ancient history I recall how powerful some of those variety meat sales were to Japan.
I mean it seemed to me like there was a tendon that if you sold it it was worth $10 a head or something like that.
And so the increment on just the variety meat sales was meaningful on a per-head basis.
Can you just refresh my memory on how that all works? Yes and that's why we called out the category as a whole on variety meat because Japan pre the closing and BSE in '03 we had very strong sales of tongues skin tongues leg tendons a variety of intestine product for Japan particularly those items were in higher demand.
They were both through the -- predominantly some through the foodservice trade in Japan and some through the retail trade.
But we're hopeful particularly that we'll see those items rebound.
I think it will take a little bit of time to get those items back on the menu back through a variety of items.
Tongues we think will happen fairly quick.
Our whole thrust during that period of time was to really try to be to the high -- get as much market share and add as much incremental value to the animal as we could.
Again try to always drive our position of being the best revenue net cost player in the region.
So I'm optimistic.
And you're right those are very good items from a contribution margin standpoint.
Research Division</strong> I mean I've forgotten about the tongue thing but that was like $4 a pound versus $0.40 a pound.
My memory's a little fuzzy but I think they were -- skin tongue was north of $12 a pound at that time.
Research Division</strong> Wow.
And compared to what's the alternate...
Yes just a basic tongue would be probably -- I don't even -- I haven't checked lately so I got to guess but I think they're under $1 a pound.
But I could be wrong I just speculate.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about your capital budget.
I know in the last few years there's been a -- a large percentage of your capital spend has been spent on sort of efficiencies and modernizations within your existing processing base.
You probably reached the tail end of that so obviously you're doing some work in the 3 facilities on the value-add side.
But could you just talk about what is your maintenance CapEx at this point and then sort of how you would break your CapEx budget by value-add efficiencies and international? That's a great question Diane.
As we came into the year with grains spiking late in August Sept we took our budget down to $550 million.
As you know Jim has recently met with all of our business leaders and approached them about going back into their capital lists and determining if they have projects that meet certain criteria that being growing value-added not just having a good marginal internal rate of return but also driving that business unit's return on invested capital into the 20 range or above which is what we're looking for and asking them to relook at some projects and see if some of those might need to be accelerated.
So there's the potential as we go through the year that our CapEx would be little higher than $550 million.
Now I have the occasion to say projects don't usually happen in the month that you approve the capital.
A lot of those take 3 6 months that type of thing.
So that may have a little more impact on our '14 CapEx spend than -- but it could have some effect on this year.
But we continue to look of those things.
It is -- we are laser focused on growing value-added poultry in our Prepared Foods business.
We're -- international growth we're trying to build chicken houses in China as fast as we possibly can.
And if we get ahead of plan we will absolutely put the capital in place to get those houses built more quickly than what we had planned to go on at the end of the year.
And then as Dennis said we still view a lot of potential in our business and that's one of those -- one of the levers we have in using our cash.
But depending on how things go and what our free cash flow is we'll continue to return cash to the shareholders as well.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Could you give me an idea about your maintenance CapEx is? And then what are the percentages for the programs? Yes in round numbers $225 million $250 million something like that would -- that would be pretty close.
Yes.
That's pretty close because it ebbs and flows depending upon particularly rough projects.
That would be a big mover in there and then freezer replacements.
Our whole philosophy on those is we want to keep them current but we don't want to basically pull ahead our maintenance spend.
So we spend a lot of time managing capital on the planning side and balancing between the projects that require return versus those with purely maintenance.
So our groups do a fantastic job of really planning their CapEx needs.
So we look out all that actually over a 2-year period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Jim I just wanted to ask on the flow of cattle this year.
I think last year you benefited a little bit from a shift out of Texas into the northern plains but we didn't see El Nio.
So I'm just wondering if you expect to see a reversal of that this year at all.
And maybe that's some of your hesitancy about kind of third and fourth quarter supply-demand and kind of what's going to flow through your plants.
That key number I really watch is where the cattle placements are and what's on feeds state by state.
And you are seeing numbers year-over-year down in Texas and Kansas and up in Iowa and the Pacific Northwest.
So we're seeing cattle feeding shift around to some degree.
I don't know how much of it is weather-related as much as it is just in combination of grain basis cattle basis and cost to gain differentials between the regions.
But that seems to be the primary driver.
But you're definitely seeing some shifts when you just look at the cattle and feed by state.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about just overall production outlook in the protein with the numbers down 1% instead of 2%.
Is there any risk that we'll have a build and supply and maybe won't realize pricing as much as expected? Is there any kind of cap on that potential cap on the upside in pricing? Well -- and is that the pricing across all proteins or...
LLC Research Division</strong> Across all proteins yes.
I mean I really think we've got a fairly good grasp of what the fundamentals are going to look like.
I mean we have not just pricing but also mixed opportunities and growing value-added that helps us get into categories that are less price-sensitive.
I think that what we're seeing coming into the year is that with the payroll tax increase gasoline prices doing what they're doing the consumer is feeling these effects.
But they're not eating less meat they're eating different meat now.
So Jim do you want to add anything to that? Yes I would.
Because if you -- I think overall proteins we're not going to see a major shift up.
We're still thinking they're down 1%.
The mix is changing because beef will be down more.
Pork will be flat -- up slightly and Chicken up slightly.
But I think last quarter's perishable data is pretty insightful particularly when you look at the price of beef being very high and then you look at the wholesale prices of beef being up with actually flat pounds relative because the carcass weights contributed so much to the pounds that were available.
And then Chicken up that 8.8% on price.
We're 1.1% or so increase in pounds.
That really starts to tell me that the price spreads will start -- are starting to be felt and noticed by the consumer and they're shifting their patterns.
So Beef continues which it's likely to increase and inflate in price with the decreased supply.
And probably the influence of exports will start to see the consumer probably continue to have some more interest in chicken.
And hopefully we'll see that pricing hold together.
And then Pork we don't really expect to see a major increase in supply and that pricing elasticity seems to be right on target with the historical demand plans.
So I'm actually -- I'm not overly bullish on price as the consumer will fight the increases but the reality is that balance is happening.
Our next question comes from Tim Tiberio.
LLC Research Division</strong> In light of relatively flat wholesale cut-out on the pork side and lean hog futures can you perhaps walk us through why you're so confident that fresh pork margins will remain at or above your normalized range during the fiscal year? I know that just looking at the spot processing margins there's not always a one-to-one translation but I'm just curious of whether you're more confident that we'll see a rally in pork prices through the year or whether you're just confident that you can outsource the market from a hedging and a hog supply perspective? Let me answer that.
Hedging has no real bearing on that.
But if you look at the last 4 weeks the cut-out has climbed up.
Belly prices have come up.
Some of the retail have been a little bit flat but the overall cut-outs come up.
But our focus is always watching the forward supply against our sole position and trying to make sure that we focus on adding as much revenue and keeping our cost in line.
So it's always that slope of change equation that we really look at trying to make sure that we're not overselling against what we think the forward supply or under selling against what we think the forward supply so we can try to maintain that spread as best we can.
And if you look just at Q1 versus a year ago we still had a very good quarter but we had more pressure on the cut-out and it just took a little longer for the hog cost to correct.
Right now in this quarter that's the way it started out and now it's starting to change as we come through January and into February.
So I don't know.
Hopefully I didn't confuse you but we're very confident that we can maintain our relativity to the market and keep our focus on maximizing our revenues and keeping our cost in line.
And we really try to read that forward supply as best we can so we don't get ourselves out of balance.
And that helps maintain our sole positions.
I'll throw more color into it without having to get real precise.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews.
Research Division</strong> I just want to get a better understanding of this beef plant situation and just how it positively impacts your beef.
My understanding from what I read in the trade press is that they're going to idle this plant and the cattle that they were processing at that plant is going to instead go to their other plants which were running at lower utilization.
So net the demand for cattle isn't going to change.
So -- and I don't believe that you have a plant that's terribly near where that plant closed but I could be wrong about that.
But so what are the dynamics that ultimately will help you out if it's true that they're just going to shift the cattle somewhere else? First of all we do have a plant fairly close to that and again I reference when you look at just where our plants are against what their USDA reported daily slaughter capacities are and then you put the factor in of what's the practical how far if you move cattle.
Somebody has to pay the freight bill.
And so that's a lot.
I just took kind of a 300-mile radius did my own research of what I've known on the area.
And so that's roughly 10% of the capacity in that 300-mile zone out in kind of the greater Panhandle West Kansas West Texas area.
So I don't know what Cargill's intention are or aren't.
I just know the reality that it costs money to move cattle and who absorbs the freight will take the hit and the loss.
So it should in theory improve the ability of the packer or to buy a more favorable basis for a while in that area and improve the overall capacity utilization in that region for a period of time.
So those are the points that just fit the overall supply-demand.
Beef packing is a very regional play because again the limitation and the expense of moving cattle are in a great distance.
So hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And maybe this is a follow-up.
If I follow what you said correctly you're saying they're going to be buying less cattle in that area which will benefit you but then presumably they have to buy more cattle in other areas which will...
I didn't talk what they buy; I just talked about the number in the area relative to the slaughter capacity in the area which shifted and then -- and again -- and the practical reality of having the cost to move cattle.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow.
Research Division</strong> Regarding beef capacity and processing capacity do you think this Cargill move is enough to get the industry back in balance? Or do you think there's other regions in your analysis that probably could have additional capacity reductions? I'll know a lot more this afternoon as -- when the census report comes up particularly as we look at the calf crop estimated calf crop from the spring in 2012.
But with the decline we've been on and over slaughter capacity I think it's probable that we'll see change going forward with some regional plants not being -- having sufficient supply and they'll have to deal with it.
We can't replenish the herd quick enough.
And then the other thing I think when you look at the Cattle on Feed report that we just saw you saw that the heifer reduction and the numbers on feed was fairly sizable.
So that we are seeing what I call a mild rebuild but it will be several years out before we realize that.
So I do think there's still a slight imbalance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jim when we're trying to do the math around what the upside of Japan coming back online is I quantify about 500 million pounds of a difference today between what they were buying before BSE and what they are buying now.
But then you and Tim started getting at the tongues intestines and tendons so...
Those are the good items yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean should I adding up all the pounds of tongues intestines and tendons and figuring out $12 a pound? Or should I try to think through what kind of the bigger cuts of meat that would get you to that -- back to where you were before? Well the answer is both but I don't think we'll shoot tongues up to that because now in Japan that demand has to be probably recreated to a degree.
And we have to get back in and hopefully the Japanese markets start to consume the product.
I think there will be a reasonable shift back towards U.S.
beef and increasing supplies.
But I think it'd be very premature to try to quantify all that at this stage.
Our whole approach is always to try to meet what the customers' expectations and get the innovation behind products -- providing products that they can use and just keep driving the overall revenue of beef up as best we can.
So it's way early to try to start putting numbers behind those pounds and price relationships.
And I think it's very difficult and not terribly meaningful to go back and look at what was pre-'03 because the dynamics into the Japanese demand structure have likely changed significantly.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 follow-ups one on Chicken.
Can you talk a little bit more about this inventory build? It seems significant.
It looks like a 15% increase in what's in at least from what I could tell from your Q year-over-year increase and it's significant on a quarterly basis.
I'm just -- I don't have much insight into that so I'm concerned that maybe that's going to hit the market and impact pricing.
So that's where I'm coming from on that.
So if you can give us a little bit more color and basically give me confidence that it's not going to impact pricing negatively that will be helpful.
Okay.
So yes I'll tell you what it is and I'll what it isn't.
What it is promotional volume because of capacity strengths that we have to ramp up to get in -- it's a promotional build for a retail and/or food service promotion that will come in subsequent months.
What it's not is leg quarters and breast meat that we couldn't sell.
Our leg quarter inventory is in great shape.
We're buying breast meat.
And so we're not putting stuff in the freezer hoping for a better day.
Those days are long past for Tyson Foods.
And -- but we had to -- we've got to ramp up for some pretty good promotional activity coming our way.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And is that value-added or commodity the promotion? No.
That is value-added you bet.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just for Jim.
On Pork we recently wrote a note on this but the cut-out on a year-over-year basis flat to down so far in the calendar year hog prices are showing up in the futures curve.
So if all packers do what you guys do well which is balance supply and demand to manage the spread that would imply that either the futures price is too high or the packers are not going to be able to manage that spread right? So my guess is the futures price for hogs today is anticipating demand that's more favorable than what we're seeing currently perhaps exports China that's my guess.
But is that the right way to think about it? Because we all tend to do this because the futures price is available right? But can you help me understand that? How do you look at the futures curve on hog and your sort of spread analysis? The way we look at the futures curve we go back and always check what the supply assumptions with pig crop report et cetera would imply going forward and see if they match looking at really what the -- what that quarterly demand curve is against the total cut-out against the domestic availability.
If the supply looks like it's less and going down and if the price looks like it's right on the demand curve obviously your supply will drive it up.
Then you have to anticipate whether or not there is a demand shift against your projected supply what would shift it.
Generally speaking export change can have it or another dynamic.
But generally when you look at pork elasticity curves off of a cut-out as an index there's very few times in history that you see dramatic shifts.
Swine flu would have been one in '09.
You would have seen some other shifts in '04 but for the most part there's not a lot of deviations.
So that how I look at it.
And anticipating export shifts is the most tricky component of that because it can create a shift in domestic availability that accelerates or decelerates basis of supply that is forecast against pig crop report.
It's a long answer but that's how we look at it.
Research Division</strong> So bottom line do you think the futures curve today for hogs is sort of overly optimistic or...
It appears to me to be so simply because I don't see the supply deficit pulling the domestic availability back down.
Our next question comes from Kenneth Zaslow.
Dennis in your comments you made an interesting point that the rolling 4-quarter number is $1.97.
And I guess my first question on this is why reference that? And on top of that if I go back the rolling 4 quarters both Beef and Chicken are not in the normalized range.
So what are your implications here? So remember on the last call Ken we talked about thinking -- or foreshadowing for '13 that we do at least $1.90 again we made the case.
So the best way we know how to illustrate that we're going to do that is to tell you what the last 12 months was.
So that would be the first part of it.
And you're right about Beef and Chicken being below the normalized range and we're performing well and we're going to get better.
And I guess the last question I have is if I look into 2014 back half of Chicken in '13 is already going to be in the normalized range.
Beef seems to be potentially moving out.
Which business will not be in the normalized range in 2014? It seems like all the businesses have a reasonable probability to be in the normalized range in 2014.
Am I missing something? Nope you're right.
It's time to do that and keep improving.
And we do have a question from Christine McCracken.
Just one follow-up.
Jim you mentioned Russia has ractopamine issues and we've seen some more pushback in China and the U.S.
Is there any chance the industry moves away from beta agonists? And what could that mean for industry supplies? I don't know for sure.
I wish I knew.
I think there's always a possibility of those things.
Let's just say what happened.
Obviously the efficiency gain and the increased carcass pounds would be gone so you'd either have a shift or a decrease in pounds of pork produced.
So that would be favorable on prices.
Now whether it offsets the price -- decrease offsets the loss of efficiency and how that impacts the producer will be very dependent upon the price swing accordingly and each individual producer's case on the contribution of that efficiency gain that he gets.
And on Beef wouldn't that exacerbate the issues that we have right now and the weight gains we've seen? Yes same answer.
And it's just how much beef supply comes off if the growth promotants from beta -- or beta agonist growth promotants went away it would take pounds off the market.
And at this time I'm showing no further questions.
Okay.
Well thanks everybody for joining us today.
And as always we're grateful for your interest in our company.
We're going to cut out and head over to the shareholders' meeting now so we hope you have a great day and a great weekend.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'll turn the meeting over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods Conference Call for the Second Quarter of our 2013 Fiscal Year.
I need to remind you that some of the things we'll talk about today will include forward-looking statements.
Those statements are based on our view of the world as we know it now which could change.
I encourage you to look at today's press release for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us today.
About a month after our Q1 call we announced that our second quarter was going to be tougher than we anticipated and it was.
We achieved record sales for the quarter but our earnings fell short of our expectations and will impact -- the reasons for that in a minute.
Looking at adjusted earnings for the first half of the year we're at $0.84 compared to $0.86 last year off by $0.02.
And as you're all aware we're predicting a strong back half of the year.
We are still projecting full year adjusted EPS better than fiscal '12 primarily due to the performance we expect from the Chicken segment.
As I said many times I think our multi-protein multichannel multinational model provides for a balanced approach that enables us to take care of our customers and grow over time.
Now looking at the macro environment according to the perishables group at retail breast meat dollar sales were up 3.5% for the 52-week period ended March 30 while pounds were flat indicating higher pricing.
In Pork prices were down 2.6% while pounds were up 3.4%.
Total Beef dollars sales increased nearly 2% but pounds declined nearly 4%.
Chicken benefited from customers who move away from beef.
Pounds sold were up 2% while dollar sales were up 7.6%.
Tyson the #1 brand of Chicken in the U.S.
drove category growth.
In the foodservice channel February sales growth was negative down 1.2% for the first time in 3 years.
NPD reports traffic was flat for Dec Jan Feb with QSR up slightly and full service down slightly versus a year ago.
NPD's preliminary report on March indicates QSR traffic was down by 1% versus last year.
Higher gas prices and payroll taxes bad weather and economic uncertainty all weighed on consumers.
So overall foodservice traffic is about flat.
But people are ordering fewer items when they visit a restaurant which means volume is contracting by about 0.5%.
However many of our core categories such as Chicken soup tacos and wraps have gained annual servings in this flat market.
NPD CREST predicts restaurant traffic in 2013 will not be as high as 2012 levels even in QSR.
And given the slow rate of economic recovery traffic is expected to be relatively flat through '14 as well.
So in this environment how do we grow sales? In addition to the quality and service Tyson is known for we must continue to provide product innovation to drive traffic and sales for our customers whether they are QSR a mid-scale restaurant a big-box retailer a small grocery chain a convenience store a club store or a school district.
Because of the weak demand operators are more interested than ever in our new product ideas and business building opportunities.
Year-to-date we've grown value-added sales by 3.3% as we started filling up the innovation pipeline.
As a reminder we set an ambitious goal of growing value-added product sales 6% to 8% annually.
We believe we'll get there.
Our goal is to understand our consumers' needs and provide foods that meet those needs in every day part.
Our focus this year has been on 3 categories: handheld or on-the-go gluten-free and no antibiotics ever.
For a couple of quick examples in support of the handheld category we're extending our current line with new whole-grain items and bold flavors.
Also look for gluten-free chicken nuggets and other gluten-free breaded products in response to the growing number of consumers who are following the gluten-free diet.
In the no antibiotics ever category we'll build on the NatureRaised Farms brand of fresh chicken which is successfully launched in February.
We just started shipping frozen fully cooked items under this new brand that features the attributes of no antibiotics ever a 100% all natural vegetarian-fed with independent third-party animal welfare certification.
The NatureRaised Farms fully cooked line includes whole-grain and gluten-free offerings to meet the needs of a growing category of consumers who are looking for chicken with no antibiotics ever in their convenience foods.
These are a few examples of the 90 new retail products you'll see this year in our aggressive product launch schedule.
We're supporting these products through a significant amount of highly targeted MAP spending and we're already seeing good return on our spend.
I'll highlighted some of what we're doing at retail but I don't want to leave you with the impression that innovation is only in one channel.
Working alongside our foodservice customers we play a key role in developing many of the QSR new product features and promotions you've seen and you will see this year.
We'll be introducing well over 100 new products in fiscal '13 in the various foodservice channels including QSR national accounts distribution schools deli and convenience stores.
Speaking of which as we mentioned previously we're focused on expanding our presence in deli and c-stores.
We recently hosted the c-store foodservice summit here at our Discovery Center.
It was a big success.
We didn't just highlight our existing product capabilities we bought in new concepts and products to help c-store chains expand their offerings and drive new and increased sales.
Several participants said it was the best industry event they had ever attended.
So to wrap up my thoughts on new product innovation we've got a lot done.
We've got a lot going on and we've got a lot planned for the next few years.
We're in a very unique position in our industry.
We don't just sell our products.
We help our customers meet new opportunity in what our products can do for them.
In the area of new product innovation we're excited about what we do about how we do it and most especially excited that our customers value what we do.
I look forward to being able to give you more news in this area in the future as we achieve value-added growth while meeting our customers' needs.
Turning to our international business.
I'm really pleased with our growth strategy and how that's taken shape.
Our international operations have improved significantly compared to a year ago primarily driven by great results in Mexico and Brazil.
Now obviously the avian influenza outbreak in China is troubling and is detrimental to protein consumption in the short run.
But I think long term this validates our business model in China which emphasizes biosecurity supply-chain integrity and food safety.
Now you may have noticed in our earnings release this morning that we had a $56 million impairment of noncore assets in China and I want to explain what this is.
Our team in China conducted a thorough assessment of our long-term strategy and concluded that the capital investment needed to upgrade one of our older poultry complexes would be better spent in other ways.
As a result of the change in expectations for this facility we took an impairment this quarter.
But I want to be clear that we are still committed to our strategy of company control birds in China and we're looking into how best to use that capital.
My final thoughts are that we got this tough quarter behind us and everybody here is focused on what lies ahead not just for the rest of the year but the next 3 to 5 years down the road.
Whether it's new product launches new categories new distribution channels training our people to perform at their highest level or succession planning to ensure we always have a high performing team in place Tyson Foods is in a good position.
And while our plans are ambitious they're also realistic and attainable which is why I'm so excited about our future.
Q3 is off to a really good start and I believe we'll finish the back half strong and take a lot of momentum into FY '14.
So that concludes my remarks.
Dennis will now give the financial update followed by Jim who will discuss our operating segments.
Dennis? Thank you Donnie and good morning everyone.
This morning we reported Q2 earnings of $0.26 per share or $0.36 after adjusting for the $56 million impairment charge on noncore assets in China and the $19 million currency translation gain.
These adjustments had essentially no tax expense or benefit.
And as Donnie said adjusting for these 2 items year-to-date earnings per share is $0.84 down $0.02 compared to $0.86 last year.
Adjusted pretax return on invested capital for the past 12 months was 16%.
Capital expenditures were $133 million for the quarter and $290 million through the first 6 months of fiscal '13 as we continue to invest in projects for both our domestic and foreign operations that will not only result in improved productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix but also increase our ability to innovate and produce new products to our customers.
Operating cash flow through 2 quarters was $230 million down from fiscal '12 due to increased accounts receivable from an uptick in sales at the end of the second quarter.
This past quarter we repurchased 2.1 million shares for $50 million under our share repurchase program.
This brings our total repurchases over the past 8 quarters to 29.4 million shares for $550 million under this program.
Including cash of $762 million and short-term investments of $47 million net debt was $1.6 billion.
Total liquidity was just under $1.8 billion remaining well above the upper end of our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt remained at just over $2.4 billion and we still plan to pay off convertible notes due in October with cash on hand.
Net debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months was 1x.
On a gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 1.5x.
Through March debt interest expense is down 26% compared to a year ago at $70 million.
Our effective tax rate for Q2 was 33.2% or 27.7% excluding the impairment of the noncore assets in China and the currency translation gain.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter was 366 million.
This reflects the dilutive share effect of options and convertible notes of $13 million.
The impact of the 2.1 million shares repurchased during the quarter will not be fully realized until subsequent quarters.
So now here are some thoughts on fiscal '13 as a whole.
We expect revenues of approximately $34.5 billion down slightly from previous guidance.
Net interest expense should approximate $140 million.
The effective tax rate should be around 35.5% to 36% and we've widened our CapEx plan to a range of $550 million to $600 million.
Our priorities for excess cash remain first toward additional capital spending to continue innovating improving and growing our existing businesses such as the new products Donnie mentioned in his remarks.
Second acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products in our international footprint.
As you know we acquired Don Julio Foods in the second quarter and we continue to look for opportunities that can contribute to our growth goals and finally by continuing to return cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends as we've demonstrated recently with our share repurchase activity and increased dividend rate.
In closing I would like to reemphasize our confidence that our team will deliver strong results in the second half of the year and that we will carry that momentum with us into fiscal '14 with our sight set on at least 10% EPS growth.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a closer look into our operating segments.
Thanks Dennis and good morning.
The Pork segment had 5.5% return on sales and $72 million in operating income in the second fiscal quarter.
Our average sales price per pound and volume were both down 2.2% compared to Q2 last year.
Pork exports softened during the quarter which increased domestic availability by about 3.5% versus a year ago negatively impacted wholesale pricing.
In response we chose to run reduced volumes in an effort to improve margins.
We expect industry hog supplies to be flat but sufficient and pork exports are likely to decrease slightly compared to fiscal 2012.
However we expect 2013 will be another strong year for our Pork segment.
The Prepared Foods segment had a 3.5% return on sales and $28 million in operating income.
Our volume was down 0.8% while average sales price per pound was up slightly at 0.3% over Q2 of '12.
Volume was down due to reduced foodservice demand although we maintain market share.
To offset demand we're going after other business across the multiple channels we service which we believe will improve our volume in 2014.
Also in Prepared Foods our lunchmeat plant in Houston is undergoing a renovation project and it should improve our results in fiscal '14 but it will be a drag on the segment in 2013.
Our Chicken segment is performing well and reported a 2.5% return on sales and $78 million in operating income.
Volume was essentially flat while pricing was up 6.2%.
Without the impairment from our Chinese assets the Chicken segment has made $241 million the first half of fiscal '13 compared to $177 million in the first half of fiscal '12.
This is despite an increase of $335 million in total feed cost year-over-year showing how much our Chicken business has improved.
We continue to improve through capital investment and significant operational efficiencies.
In the second quarter we drove more than $10 million out of our cost structure through operational efficiencies bringing the total to $39 million so far this year.
We still expect to achieve $100 million in operating efficiencies for the year.
We position ourselves to better adjust to rising feed cost by changing many of our sales contracts which are now formula based or shorter term in nature allowing us to more readily offset rising input cost through pricing.
Our annual fixed price contracts are in the single digits and declined further in Q2 compared to Q1.
Additionally foodservice promotion of chicken throughout 2013 should help drive volume of highly value-added products that are less susceptible to commodity pricing.
This coupled with strong demand at retail for chicken are positive indicators for the strong back half of the year in the Chicken segment.
Although our production has not been directly affected by avian influenza in China demand has softened for the entire Chinese poultry industry.
Concerns over AI along with an antibiotic residue problem by competitors have caused Chinese consumers to question their food safety.
We believe our modern methods and processes will make our chicken the preferred product and we'll be in a position to benefit in the long run.
Our team in China continues to improve.
And apart from this delay in demand we remain on target with our production goals.
Turning to the Beef segment.
We had a negative margin of 0.8% with an operating loss of $26 million.
Volume was down 3.9% while price per pound was up 6.5%.
We have several issues that contributed both positively and negatively to our results.
There is a regional disparity in cattle cost followed by the closure of the Texas plant.
Our Southern plants had an improved relationship between beef prices and cattle cost which did enhance our margins and improve our utilization.
This was positive to our results.
However in some of our Northern plants we had margin compression from the increased demand for cattle relative to the price of beef which is negative to margins.
We expanded and increased our operating cost compared to Q2 last year.
These are driven by labor cost resulting from product mix changes and higher wages.
We also had operational challenges primarily in 2 plants and we've taken steps to rectify the underperformance in these operations.
Although demand for ground beef was good overall beef demand was soft apparently from the higher prices and the resolving consumer movement towards chicken.
This was particularly noticeable in our premium beef programs.
We were not able to realize optimum revenue for steak and roast cuts because supplies exceeded consumption.
To rectify this situation we have adjusted our cattle procurement strategies to reflect the softer demand and excess supplies from the premium grains.
Looking ahead in Beef we still expect industry-fed cattle supplies to decline by 2% to 3% in fiscal 2013.
There should be adequate supplies near our plants although there could be periods of supply-demand imbalance.
The operating environment and our performance have improved and our Beef segment was profitable in both March and April.
In conclusion we come to the toughest part of the year and are nearly equal to last year.
We believe Q3 and Q4 will be significantly better than Q2 but they're not in a bank yet so we can't and won't let up.
Our teams know what they need to know.
Now we just have to go about the business of day-to-day execution.
That is the end of our prepared remarks.
We are ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Operator we're ready for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We do have our first question Ryan Oksenhendler Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask regarding the outlook for Chicken as I look out for the back half of the year can you see pricing accelerate as you've seen breast meat move here? And I know some of your contracts didn't really get priced until February March so we didn't see as much of an increase in the second quarter.
And then is there any reason that that can't continue into fiscal '14 given that supply seemed to be disciplined here given the recent pullet placement trends? Yes.
A couple of parts.
Let me take the first one.
Yes we do expect to see pricing improve in Q3 versus Q2 and forward into 4.
Certainly market's given us a good bit of help there.
Looking on into '14 if you look at the pullet numbers -- and by the way the amount of eggs that are going to Mexico really don't see that supply is going to change much until -- timing would tell you sometime around late Oct Nov and then of course then you're going into the Thanksgiving and Christmas market slowdown.
So it wouldn't make sense for us to do anything on supply going into that period.
So really feels like you'll carry a lot of momentum into '14 and on end of -- front half of the calendar part of the year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just one follow-up on the international regarding bird flu in China in terms of impacting your business I know consumption has slowed.
You originally had planned to be breakeven I think in the fourth quarter -- fiscal fourth quarter of this year.
Has that changed? And I guess kind of can you give us an outlook for fiscal '14 and how that will impact that earnings for next year? Yes it sure has Ryan.
I'd say it probably pushes out that breakeven mark for a quarter or 2.
Still in our sights though.
In terms of the business operations we're getting our houses built on time just like we thought we would.
By the end of the year we'll have about half of our production in company-owned housing.
That will feel really good going into the plants.
So whereas I thought maybe we'd be there in Q4 it's likely to be maybe Q1 or Q2 now '14.
But you should expect sequential year-over-year continued improvements in international.
This year our international results minus the impairment in China so let's call it an adjusted international results number will be markedly better than last year and then you'll see another improvement we believe going into '14.
Next question Heather Jones BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on Beef.
Using Hedgers Edge as a proxy you guys' sequential and year-on-year performance in Beef deteriorated pretty dramatically.
And some of the things that you discussed in your prepared remarks were company specific but some were issues that the whole industry struggled with.
So I was wondering if you could give us a sense of magnitude of the company-specific issues you referenced and how soon those will be resolved so we could expect you to get back to your typical spread to the industry.
Let me address that.
First of all the north style does make the Hedgers Edge which is one number a little bit more difficult to interpret.
But yes we did have some specific particularly related to our normal premiums for what we call the premium grades.
And we saw the softness in demand which put pricing pressure on that.
And we usually lag how we pay for cattle based on what the lagging premium grades warrant.
And we weren't rapid enough to correct that and pushed that premium for the higher-end grades the Angus approach as even the prime were all soft.
And so we didn't adjust that fast enough and that was particularly as well in the northern tier where the cattle did trade higher.
So we really got hit specifically in our northern tier plants with higher price beef relative to what the beef warranted as well as paying more than we should have for the premium grade.
So we've got -- we've had that corrected.
And then we're working through getting our operational cost issue that I referenced in a couple of plants.
I'm comfortable that we'll get our arms around that and push forward to get ourselves back where we normal are in Beef.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-up you talked about being in your normalized range for Chicken in the back half.
And I understand given the structure of your business model that your magnitude of improvements is not going to track like when the industry is improving as quickly as it is now.
But given what we're seeing with breast meat given what we're seeing just with demand there seems to be an acceleration in demand should we anticipate you guys being at the high end of normalized in the back half? Or you -- I mean how are you thinking about that? We're expecting yes to be in the high end and we expect domestic Chicken to do very very well on this back half of the fiscal year.
Again we're seeing the pricing where we want it our operational efficiencies were set up very well and understanding our demand and supply so we're in very good balance -- at least we anticipate to be in very good balance on what we know today.
We're seeing a tremendous amount of features at foodservice on chicken products and we're also seeing the same follow-through so far into early Q3 here with chicken at retail continuing to show a demand shift away from beef.
So we're very encouraged with the back half on Chicken in fiscal '13.
And I do believe it will carry right on into '14 the way the supply structure is set up currently.
Next question is Tim Ramey D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could give us any color on Japan and the increasing age and some of the specialty cuts that you might be able to ship into there at greater margins.
Is that starting to flow? What -- were we seeing any real impact there? Well it is now actually.
And if I think back a mere quarter ago when that was just announced the enthusiasm was very high.
And I fully well know that the lag time to get the supply chain and get the customer base reestablished into Japan would take some time and it did.
So we didn't really see any positive benefit through the Jan Feb March period to speak of although in March it started to heat up on the shipment side and we're starting to see supply chain be reestablished.
In fact the U.S.
when I look at March popped up 28%.
Now we got a very high share of that.
In fact when we track our numbers our Tyson share into Japan was up at -- up 95%.
So we feel pretty good as well as the market for the non-muscle cuts starting to -- the interest is starting to expand there.
But it's going to take a little bit more time than what everybody originally thought and markets never move and demand never moves as fast as one wants.
But I'm very encouraged with what I see going forward from the Japanese market on beef exports.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just follow up on China.
You obviously have a great story to tell there and I just don't know whether you can tell that story.
I mean it's always hard when you have these maybe an influenza outbreaks nobody wants to hear about chicken at all.
But at the end of the day your story is one that should be well received.
Who's going to lead that charge? Is that kind of the YUM! brands of the world that will do that? Or does everyone just want to be quiet a little bit for a while on chicken? Tim I think early there's just a consumer issue around AI and don't buy chicken don't buy -- and so demand has really dropped a lot particularly in the Shanghai area which is where our operations are.
I think that's temporary.
We believe that whenever the number of confirmed cases quits growing that let's call it a time clock if you will will begin and then a few months after that consumer acceptance of poultry will be right back to where it was.
The one thing that this unfortunate event has done is absolutely validated our model for extreme biosecurity the best in food safety.
Our supply chain is very very well protected and that's getting recognition.
And so over time I believe that will continue to validate our model and we'll see the value from that.
It's just right now we're a little bit overwhelmed with kind the don't want to say fear but folks backing off of chicken.
Jim anything to add? Yes.
The only thing I'd add is yes the short term here we've seen demand but there's some sort of long-term structural changes that appear to be in place particularly when you think about the wet market eliminating all live bald chicken and other follow other market.
And you're seeing that fragmented independent producers that got hurt hard and the antibiotic issues in November December followed with this so we expect to see a reduction in that independent fragmented supply chain which actually will position us on the rebound very well because we haven't backed off anything on our company-owned control production.
So actually the silver lining will be out front yet.
So we're comfortable with it.
Next question is Christine McCracken Cleveland Research.
Just on a follow-up to the discussion on Beef.
You talked about some of the regional challenges and the pressure on margins there.
Do you think there was any impact from the snow in May or the really cold spring we've had I guess in terms of the grilling season? And then how big a deal has this trade disruption been with China on the beta agonist? The snow in May is a surprise to everybody.
But I don't think that's really negatively impacted the cattle supplies if anything maybe slowed down the availability slightly.
But that will quickly rebound.
We'll have those clearly available through the balance of May June July August.
So I expect actually Beef to be much like last year with a very very strong back half and it certainly set that way -- set itself up that way.
And I do think the cold weather has hurt consumption until recently when we've seen the cutoffs start to rebound here in the last week or so.
So yes I think the demand and again we always make money in the slope of change.
So when Beef revenues are under pressure and they're declining the cattle costs have to correct down to it.
And vice versa when the positive revenues are going up the cattle costs tend to lag it up.
So we're in that mode right now with fairly ample supplies coming at us.
The ractopamine any time you lose a market and you create more domestic availability you put pressure on wholesale prices and that did have some impact on Beef and it clearly had some impact on the Pork wholesale prices because that domestic availability as I referenced in Pork did go up 3.5% on a nominal increase in production pounds.
So a loss of markets does influence those wholesale prices which ultimately influences the value of hogs and cattle.
Just as a follow-up talking about that Pork that situation doesn't seem like it's going to get a lot better; inventories are growing.
How should we be thinking about it as we look forward? And seasonally I think you'll get a little tighter supplies here over the next couple of months.
But then looking into the -- later this year it seems like that growing inventory of pork and the inability of the U.S.
market to take that is going to be a big problem.
How should we be thinking about pork long term? Well I think the -- from our margin perspective I'm very positive.
Again once we get through this typical April May is usually your tighter supply there may be some pressure on the wholesale prices.
But I think that's largely built in that lack of domestic disappearance.
Your exports has already adjusted.
So I think the balance will be there.
And I actually expect us to come through and end the year very strong in Pork margins.
But there won't be -- I don't think we'll see the robust pricing that we saw in prior years either.
Next question is Ken Goldman JPMC.
Research Division</strong> On Chicken wings we continue to see frozen stores numbers climb and there's a theory out there that inventories are rising in preparation for a pretty major national launch by a QSR.
But at the same time prices are soft for wings.
So it's not like all these wings going into storage instead of market are driving these -- the price on shelf higher.
So can you give us a bit of color as to what's happening there? And specifically are there enough wings for a QSR to do a major national launch all at once? Or does it kind of have to be piecemeal region by region in your opinion? Well I probably shouldn't comment on what a QSR might do.
But let me talk about wing supply.
Typically this time of the year prices are going to fall.
You get out of the past March madness you're going to see prices drop.
I'm grateful wings currently trade what upper 120s low 130s that kind of number.
And that's probably $0.25 $0.30 a pound above what the 4- 5-year average would be for this time of the year.
So I still think -- I like where wings prices are.
And typically what will happen Ken is folks like us you get into the kind of the latter part of the summer deal and you know you're going to have a big wing season coming up so you call it -- these through March.
Folks will start buying wings and further processing those and putting those in inventory to get ready for big retailer foodservice features that are going to be coming during the next wing season.
Because you're going to sell a whole lot more wings during wing season than what you could produce.
So it gets a little soft this time of the year.
It firms up.
I'm sure if there's a QSR that's working on a promotion that there's going to be plenty of wings to supply that it may mean that wing prices are firmer next wing season but we'll deal with that then.
The only thing I'd add is the strength in the breast meat term prices probably are also long term going to be supportive of the wing because you won't have the ability to go chase a lower meat lock-in in the boneless breast meat contribution to the boneless wings.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
Urner Barry has jumbo wings at $1.10.
You guys are seeing actual prices trade well ahead of that it sounds like? Yes.
Most of what -- well what I was quoting was probably the medium wing market which is what we do.
Yes jumbo would be about $1.10.
It's $1 to $1.10.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Pork in the last month or so we've seen hog and pork prices jump higher.
And I realized of course part of it is seasonality right? But the growth rate is higher than we usually see this time of year.
So maybe seasonality isn't the only driver right? We're still seeing -- I guess I'm curious right we're still seeing a very unfavorable dollar-yen translation rate and export debt is not great.
So I'm curious in your opinion why we've seen sequentially pork prices rise maybe more than what some of us would have expected lately.
A little bit of that rise when I look back at it -- because we got hurt in the margins in Feb through March on that decline and then they start to shore back up and that relationship came back together.
But as of late bellies were running.
They corrected back.
They were running up fairly sizable on increases as well as those hams and loins were starting to show kind of a seasonal increase.
So I was actually very -- maybe not surprised but I guess gratified.
I'm seeing the shore up in pricing and the increase suggesting again maybe that the retail consumption and overall demand were starting to show some strength particularly as we said before because this cold spring I do think has had a very negative influence on just purely the grilling rates.
So maybe that's the sign.
Next question is Diane Geissler CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch back on the China issue and maybe take it from a different angle.
Just the Chinese consumer seems to me has just been beleaguered with bad news about protein between the feed issue avian flu dead hogs in the river and now rat meat.
I have to believe that the multinationals that are operating there and the government itself is eager to move the professionalism of that industry -- variety of industries that are hogs and poultry a little bit more quickly just because it's been I think a little scary for the Chinese consumers.
So what is the biggest impediment in your view to really ramping up what you have going there in terms of the biosecurity protocols and the vertical integration? And then I guess can we talk a little bit about the margin structure? Because I know you've said in the past that you're aiming for margins in that business to be in excess of what you experienced in North America.
And if you could just talk about -- I think on a normalized basis if you look at your current revenue base in the U.S.
in the poultry business normalized will be somewhere $600 million $700 million $800 million in total operating profit.
Do you see China as that kind of opportunity over the next 5 years? Diane so let me go over the first part.
You're absolutely correct and I like your term "the beleaguered consumer" there.
And remember a lot of poultry consumers in China are still -- they are readily capable of moving back to a vegetable-based diet and so that's what's happened.
Now I do believe that there's increasing concern on the part of everybody on getting to a more biosecure supply chain as well there should be.
So we think that portends a great future for our business.
That industry is very very very fragmented.
The number of true integrated suppliers is an incredibly small percent of the poultry in that supply chain.
There are still white bird versus yellow bird pretty good disparity between the amount of white bird sold in the market versus yellow bird.
So that market is pretty fragmented and it's going to take several years for that industry to consolidate and integrate but I believe it will because of the biosecurity concerns.
So that portends well for our business.
What hinders us is we're building chicken houses as fast as we can and that frankly is our bottleneck.
Our processing plants -- we've got 2 big beautiful processing plants.
And our profitability by the way will improve dramatically when we are running those with company on birds at a much higher rate than we are today.
Now let's talk about our margins.
If you look forward we'll probably be somewhere around $3 million head a week when we look out into the latter part of FY '14 and FY '15 and our plants will be full and we expect then our margins to be above -- in a mature complex we would expect our margins to be above the normalized range here in the U.S.
Beef think in low-double digits.
Now also though we do intend to grow our China poultry business fairly rapidly.
And so you may not see a recognized double-digit margin continuously if we're bringing on new complexes because we're layering in if you will some efficiencies building for the future -- inefficiencies as we're building for the future.
So -- but we do believe though that on a per bird basis our customers in that region will pay for the added value and the added biosecurity and food safety and that type of thing that we provide.
We are seeing our margins to wholesale in areas that we expect them to be.
But I think maybe a lot of people underestimate currently the demand destruction in China.
But I do believe as I said little bit earlier that will correct itself as soon as the number of cases quits going up.
That help? Research Division</strong> It does.
Can I just ask a follow-up on the chicken house construction? Sure.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that's a fairly specific question.
Is the biggest bottleneck there the siting process in other words negotiating the rights to use the land? Is it your own construction capabilities? Is it training the people who are going to raise the birds? Or is it all 3 those? You got really 2 things.
Number one the construction process we can build the houses.
There's plenty of folks over there plenty of construction companies that can build the house.
Obtaining the land use rights is a bit of a bottleneck.
And then when we opened up a new farm site which may have up to 8 to 10 chicken houses on it we'll double staff that site and then train the next if you would live production crew for the next farm site that will open.
So we're handling our training issues.
It does impact cost a little bit not dramatically but it does impact our cost a little bit.
But the land use rights is the most difficult bottleneck.
Next question is Farha Aslam Stephens.
Research Division</strong> On just first continuing on Diane's question on China and Chicken.
Could you just share with us going into the second half of the year how you think about Mexico versus China? Do you think the improvement year-over-year in Mexico profitability will offset kind of the level of weakness you're seeing in China? Oh yes definitely.
Our Mexican operation is having a really good year.
By the way Brazil is profitable and doing very well still pretty small but doing very well.
So yes that's -- what we were expecting to see was the China group being breakeven or profitable at the -- during our fourth quarter.
Don't look like that's going to happen now but we do believe Mexico and Brazil will be more than making up the gap.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just turning to Beef in the second half of the year again do you expect it to reach your normalized margin levels for the second half of 2013? Yes.
We're clearly headed into that zone right now.
And I expect it to be similar and maybe even a bit stronger than the back half last year just because April started out so much better than a year ago.
A year ago April was a real tough segment in Beef.
If you recall we had some issues relative to the ground beef segment and overall demand.
We're not facing that this year.
The biggest obstacle we've had is cold weather and consumption.
But that -- again that seems to be turning around now.
And we came through March and April in very good shape.
That's why I'm very confident back end of the back half of -- or the second half of the year that we'll be very comparable or probably perhaps better.
A lot of moving parts but I certainly don't see any impediments on Beef.
And then the strength I think I'm a little more encouraged with Japan going forward than I would have been a quarter ago because we were early into that game.
So I'm seeing enough positive signs.
Next question Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I went to a conference for the chicken industry a few weeks ago.
And I thought that the message there was that the top chicken companies are making money right now but the majority of the industry is not.
I look at spot margins; it doesn't look quite that bad.
It actually looks like everyone's doing pretty well.
Can you give us a sense about your quarter and whether you think you were like in the top 1/3 of performers or not and whether you think that there's an increased probability that the bottom 1/3 might be unable to increase production as the year goes on? Rob I -- as I look at industry benchmarking data which we've participated in I would tell you that the majority of the industry is making money.
Probably 80% or so of the industry ought to be profitable at least at the operating margin level.
And we continue and now for months and months operate in the top quartile of the industry.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up on China maybe the ninth question asked.
But you said that you chose not to invest in a noncore asset.
Is -- what is a noncore asset in China? It's not your processing facilities.
Is it something else? We have a complex that as we looked at it in order to get that complex to let's call it perform at a level that we would have been happy with the capital required to do that was going to be better spent in other ways.
So our team over there did a thorough analysis of what it was going to take to get this complex to a level that we would have been happy with it long term.
And it just -- it felt like to us -- or it didn't feel like to us the numbers showed us that money would have been better spent put into other areas so that's what we chose to do.
But when we did that it forced us to take an impairment on that complex.
Research Division</strong> But Donnie is it -- what kind of complex is it? Is it 1 of these 2 big processing facilities? Or is it something else? No it's an older complex.
Research Division</strong> An older complex.
Okay are you going to shut it down? Or are you going to keep operating? Too early to say.
Undetermined at this time.
We're working through all of our options.
Next question is Akshay Jagdale KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So Donnie just looking at where you are today versus 3 months ago your grain cost guidance is roughly $0.26 to EPS better than before.
Boneless skinless breast prices if I'm not wrong are the highest they've been since '04.
And Chicken makes up 50% of your business.
And so isn't the year shaping up net-net to be better even though you had a weaker quarter? That's the first question.
And to elaborate on that can you just be more specific about this quarter being off to a good start? Yes.
So the answer to your first part of your question is yes very much so.
If you look at our quarter on an adjusted basis year-to-date we've absorbed $335 million in incremental feed ingredient cost.
And I think on an adjusted basis we're probably...
$241 million year-to-date.
$241 million year-to-date.
So $64 million better than the runway from a year ago on an adjusted basis.
So that's -- in my opinion that's really really good.
We're taking a lot of momentum into the back half of our year.
Pricing feels good now.
We're not a commodity player but we do have features and lots of things that price off higher commodity market.
So in a summertime kind of environment we may not ever get to the high of pure commodity players but you also won't see the lows during the other parts of the year either.
But yes Akshay I think you've got a good read on it.
We've got a great back half lined up.
And when I say we're off to a really good start what I'm talking about is that our margin structure is better than what we planned it would be going into this year.
We've been saying since well since a month after the -- our last call when we started talking about Q2 being a little tougher than we thought we've been talking about a strong back half since then and our margin structures came in a little better than that.
So we feel really good.
Research Division</strong> So where is -- and just to follow up on that where are Chicken margins today? I can't answer that but they are better than we planned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just again on the Chicken business I mean it was a good quarter.
But what I'm seeing and maybe I'm just reading this incorrectly is the revenue per pound sequentially was not as good as it typically is.
So one am I reading that correctly? And two was -- can you explain what might be going on there? I mean from the December to the March quarter typically your revenue per pound goes up a little bit more than it did this quarter.
Yes you are reading that correctly.
And here's the deal.
There's been a mix change with the economy being a little softer we've seen our mix change more chopped and formed than whole muscle what we would normally see.
And so that mix change the products sell for cheaper but don't think that translates necessarily into the cost -- into the margin structure because it doesn't.
So while our revenue per pound is down our margin per pound is not.
It's just a mix change to a more chopped and formed basis.
And also too although we've had significant pricing improvements in our fresh business our fresh items which might not carry the same revenue per pound as further process fully cooked whole muscle breast item for example still we're running a great business there.
And so the revenue per pound might not be up but our margin structure is really good.
So I'm very happy there.
Research Division</strong> And one just last one on Beef if I may for Jim.
So you said you are tracking in your normalized range right now for Beef.
So should we assume that even if the cutout remains in the 180 mid-180s high-180s on Beef you'll still be able to do as good or better than last year? In Feb we thought the back half would track there.
And if the cutout corrects because of any demand issues which I don't anticipate we're going to see that degree of correction.
But if it does you're coming in at the time of the year with the most plentiful supply.
So you get the price of Beef to the price of cattle relationship this is the best time of the year to be doing that with the supply coming at.
So the cutout will be as it always is really a function of what the consumption is against the weekly supply.
And that's why we really pay such close attention to what meat is disappearing and try to keep our offering as -- in balance with what we have within our plants and what we see our cattle supply and what we see the beef supply or beef demand and consumption going forward.
But this is the time of the year generally and historically if you look back this back half is usually our -- the Beef packing's strongest time frame.
So even if the price pressure is on there I think we'll get back into -- in the back half approach what I said on normalized or get within normal.
Next question is Tim Tiberio Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a very quick question on Brazil.
You're mentioning that results are performing very well there.
Does this give you more confidence to maybe accelerate your investment in that market especially as feed costs are falling a little bit quicker than even in North America on the soy mill side? Yes.
And one of our emphasis there is growing our value-added sales.
So yes very much.
We're happy with our Brazilian assets and are going to grow them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last follow-up question.
In lunchmeat section you mentioned that there was some cost pressures because of new ramp in the facility but are you also seeing any increased competition that would be impacting those results that we should be aware of? Not so much.
Our lunchmeat issues are wholly our own.
We're spending a lot of money down in Houston getting that facility to a point that we need it to be.
And when you're going to have an extended shutdown to change a lot of equipment out we're having product co-packed and working through all the supply-chain issues to make sure we take care of our customers and all that.
And that adds quite a bit of cost into the supply chain.
We'll work through all that over the next 4 5 6 months.
And we think by the time we get into Q1 of '14 our lunchmeat business is going to be operating where it needs to.
The next question is Ken Zaslow Bank of Montral.
Let me ask in terms of 2014 do you think that the back half of 2013 is more representative of what you're going to be able to produce in 2014? Is there any businesses that you don't think will be in the normalized range? The answer is yes and no.
So no you don't think there'll be any businesses that will not be normalized range in 2014? That's correct.
And I do think that the back half of '13 is indicative of the kind of performance that we should certainly carry into '14 and probably sustain.
Now you know Ken you know all of the fundamental issues and corn crop and all that stuff.
But what we can see there we go.
Great.
In Prepared Foods you kind of gave a little representation of what in Beef is being corrected.
You continue to say that there's going to be a drag on Prepared Foods.
Can you give a quantification of what that actually is? Say that again? I missed your question.
You said that in Prepared Foods that there is a drag on the earnings in the back half of this year from last quarter to this quarter and continuing on for we don't how many quarters but for a period of time.
How much is that? And when will that go away? Well hard to quantify because our team is busy minimizing that impact as we speak.
But I can tell you in the Prepared Foods there's 2 things that are really impacting that segment.
Number one and the biggest majority of it is our lunchmeat business which we're working on.
Number two is we had pretty soft foodservice demand in Q2.
And it felt particularly heavy in our Prepared Foods business.
Now we've got an -- a lot of new products that we're working on and a lot of things we're doing there.
I tend to think that I would say -- I tend to think that our Prepared Foods group will perform a little bit better in 3 and 4 than it did in 1 and 2.
When we went through our quarter I told them to quit digging a hole and I think we're there.
But it may -- as we start into the quarter it -- I think they're just now at the point to where they're getting the grip on the rope like we need them to.
So I think the worst is over there but I don't think we're going to fill in the hole very much in the back half.
Now the big change is in Houston as we modernize that.
But the other lunchmeat plants in that group have also added some new modern equipment to improve yields and labor efficiencies.
We really just needed to get more equipment get -- to get our sales more efficient and improve our yield and improve our overall quality.
So that also applies to a less dramatic way in the other plants other than Houston.
So I expect like Donnie to improve into this back half.
Our final question comes from Ann Gurkin Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to review a question with the outlook now for a 1% increase in domestic protein and from discussion of global demand and domestic demand maybe a little softer for different protein classes and now looking for Chicken production up 2% to 3% and Pork exports down.
Can you just walk through what is the biggest driver giving you the confidence to maintain guidance for '13 look for '13 to grow modestly maybe versus '12? Let me start.
And that still boils back down to what we've seen in the perishable data and other sets where beef consumption has been dropping which has put price pressure generally on the wholesale cuts but not necessarily at the retail.
So that's been the strength of chicken's demand.
And I don't know that I agree with personally some of the forecast I saw on the overall because they're all predicated on exports being down.
I don't particularly see chicken exports declining going forward.
And I think pork decline in exports has already been built in.
So -- and I believe we've seen those wholesale prices adjust.
So in other words I think the beef-chickens switch has happened and that will continue to support the Chicken segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the Chicken -- the outlook for the Chicken segment what gives you really great confidence for the year? Yes that and the fact that if you look at the infrastructure the pullet placements and the ability to rebound supply quickly it isn't in there.
And you look at the egg sets to hatch the egg sets to hatch and you're seeing more aged hens and less productivity as well.
So you're seeing enough signs that the supply chain will struggle to keep up.
And even though the -- again the real wildcard has been on the pork exports but I think that's largely built in.
Before we I go I just want to reemphasize that we're still on track for an adjusted EPS that exceeds last year's.
For the first half of the year we're at $0.84 adjusted versus $0.86 last year and we've done that with an incremental $335 million in feed costs.
Tyson Foods is on pace for another very good year.
So I want to thank you all for joining us today and have a great day.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now I'll turn today's conference over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the third quarter of our 2013 fiscal year.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer.
I need to remind you that our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read today's press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
Today's presentations may also include certain non-GAAP measurements.
Reconciliations of these measurements are provided on our website.
As you saw on our press release and Form 10-Q this morning we sold our Weifang operation in China and it is reflected as a discontinued operation for all periods presented in our financial statements.
Today we will speak to our results from continuing operations.
Please refer to our website for a supplemental schedule reconciling this change.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us today.
Q3 was a great quarter for us with earnings of $0.69 a share.
It was our second-best ever quarter for EPS along with record sales of $8.7 billion.
The Chicken segment had record earnings and both Chicken and Beef segments had their highest sales of any quarter.
Prepared Foods had its highest Q3 sales.
We continue to see macroeconomic indicators pointing to a steady but modest recovery.
We aren't relying on a better economy to grow our business but I think Tyson Foods is uniquely positioned to capitalize on those opportunities as they occur.
According to the Nielsen data retail sales of fresh meat were up about 4% versus the same quarter a year ago with volume up a little over 1%.
Beef dollar sales were up 2.2% along with pounds -- although pounds declined 2.5%.
Pork sales and pounds were both up 1.3% and 5.9% respectively.
Chicken pricing was up on average $0.10 a pound versus a year ago but consumers continued their move to the relative value of Chicken which was up 8.5% in dollars and 2.6% in pounds.
In foodservice restaurant traffic has been rebounding in recent months after a slow start to the year.
Chains are holding their own while independent operators continue to struggle.
For 2014 we're expecting foodservice growth to be flat to up maybe 1% which means innovation and service will continue to be key to our growth.
QSR is expected to lead foodservice growth again next year and we have a very strong share of the QSR category and expect good volume around promotional activity.
We're accelerating the sales of value-added products with a goal of 6% to 8% annual increase.
We're at 5% after 3 quarters and gaining momentum from an aggressive new product launch schedule.
Frozen value-added poultry at retail is the focus of many of these new products and Tyson is driving growth in this category which in the past year has seen about 3.5% growth.
Fresh and IQF chicken along with case-ready beef and pork are all performing very well.
Many of the food categories showing year-over-year growth at foodservice are in alignment with Tyson's key competencies particularly chicken items breakfast sandwiches and soups.
Sales of high-carb foods are declining which may be part of consumers' move towards healthier food products that we're seeing.
Tyson has been out front in the health and wellness trend for several years by providing nutritionally responsible choices for consumers.
We've been working towards cleaner labels and sodium reduction sometimes by as much as 30% while still making food that tastes great.
This is evidenced by a double-digit growth in our retail Grilled &amp; Ready line and solid growth with other Better For You innovations as well.
Foodservice customers are coming to us to help them improve the nutritionals on their products.
This is especially true of the products made for schools as new dietary guidelines with calorie and sodium limits have gone into effect.
As we enter this back-to-school season practically our entire product line has been reformulated to meet the new standards which I think is a testament to the strength of our R&amp;D team and the innovation resources of the Discovery Center.
In addition to value-added products another part of our growth strategy is to accelerate international poultry production and we're making good progress.
Strong results by Tyson de Mexico and Tyson do Brasil more than compensated for the losses in our China operations exacerbated by the avian influenza outbreak.
Demand has begun improving since the AI outbreak slowed and experience tells us that it will return to previous levels within about 3 months after the end of the event.
We're moving forward in China and in this morning's press release you probably noticed the reference to a discontinued operation.
That refers to our Weifang operation which is no longer core to the execution of our strategy given the capital investment it would have required.
Consequently in the second quarter we took an impairment test -- conducted an impairment test and recorded a $56 million impairment charge.
In the third quarter we entered into an agreement to sell Weifang which resulted in reporting it as a discontinued operation.
I'd like to wrap up my thoughts by saying that we expect the fourth quarter to look pretty close to the third quarter and we expect that performance to continue on average through 2014.
It took us a few years to turn this business around but I like where we are and I like the momentum we have.
I'm confident we're going to take it into the next year and well beyond.
So that concludes my remarks.
Dennis will now give a financial update followed by Jim who will discuss our segment results.
Dennis? Thank you Donnie and good morning everyone.
This morning we reported Q3 earnings from continuing operations of $0.69 per share up 35% compared to $0.51 last year on an adjusted basis.
As you may recall last year's adjustment included a charge of $167 million or $0.29 per share for the early extinguishment of our high-yield notes.
I'm also pleased to report our last 12 months EPS from continuing operations is $2.13 per share on an adjusted basis which is a strong indicator that we will deliver more than $2 per share for the full fiscal year as we have indicated on the last few earnings calls.
Pretax return on invested capital for the past 12 months was 17.3%.
Capital expenditures were $135 million for the quarter and $425 million through 3 quarters of fiscal '13.
Operating cash flow was strong in the third quarter at $542 million bringing the total to $772 million through 3 quarters up over $50 million from last year.
In the third quarter we repurchased 4 million shares for $100 million under our share repurchase program.
This brings our total repurchases under this program to 33.4 million shares for $650 million since May 2011.
Including cash of $943 million and short-term investments of $81 million net debt was $1.4 billion.
Total liquidity was just under $2 billion remaining well above the upper end of our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt remained at $2.4 billion with our sights set on paying off the convertible notes due in October with cash on hand.
Net debt-to-EBITDA for the last 12 months was 0.8x.
On a gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 1.4x.
Excluding last year's charge for the early extinguishment of debt net interest expense is down 26% compared to a year ago at $104 million through June.
Our effective tax rate for continuing operations in Q3 was 35.4%.
Our average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter was 369 million or flat versus last year.
Basic weighted average shares decreased by 8 million primarily due to our share repurchase program.
This decrease was completely offset by a dilution increase from our convertible notes and warrants.
With the majority of the convertible notes coming in mid-October let's take a moment to discuss the impact of their dilution.
Of the dilution this quarter driven by our stock -- increased stock price 8 million shares relates directly to the convertible notes and 3 million relates to warrants.
At the beginning of this transaction however we purchased call options that will allow us to offset the shares issued at maturity at the convertible notes in effect canceling them but accounting rules prohibit us from reducing our diluted shares from these call options until after the convertible notes are paid off.
In other words these shares will ultimately go away from our share count but investors will not see this occur until we report Q1 '14 earnings.
The ultimate dilution we experience from this transaction will only be from the warrants which have an exercise price of $22.17 per share.
Hypothetically at a stock price of $28.51 which was our closing price last Friday we would be required to issue 6.1 million shares at their maturity which is not until April 2014 and would be fully reflected in our Q3 '14 financial statements.
As stated earlier we have repurchased more than 33.4 million shares since we began this program in Q3 '11 and we expect to continue it in the future as it has well more than offset the potential impact of any ultimate dilution from these warrants.
Now here's an update on the remainder of fiscal '13 and some thoughts on fiscal '14.
We expect revenues of approximately $34.5 billion for fiscal '13 or just over 4% growth over 2012.
Revenues for fiscal '14 are expected to approximate $36 billion as we look to continue to deliver on our annual top line growth target of 3% to 4%.
Net interest expense should approximate $140 million for fiscal '13 and $100 million in fiscal '14 with the decrease primarily driven by the payoff of our convertible notes in the first few weeks of the fiscal year.
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal '13 should be around 34% and around 35% for fiscal '14.
CapEx is on pace to finish somewhere between $550 million and $600 million for fiscal '13.
Our preliminary plan for fiscal '14 is in the $650 million to $700 million range compared to projected depreciation and amortization of approximately $500 million.
As in recent years this reflects our continued emphasis on growing our value-added and international businesses to enhance our productive capabilities drive operating efficiencies and grow with our customers in both of these key areas.
In closing we are very pleased with our Q3 results and look forward to the fourth quarter which should be almost as strong.
In addition we have a good chance to finish the fiscal year with our best EPS results ever despite $500 million in incremental feed cost and numerous other challenges affecting our Beef Pork and Chinese operations which is quite an accomplishment all our team members should be proud of for their continued efforts to make our company even better.
And as Donnie said we are poised for an even stronger fiscal 2014 and believe we can deliver annualized results similar to the back half of 2013 well ahead of our annual goal to deliver at least 10% EPS growth.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a closer look into our operating segments.
Thank you Dennis and good morning.
Let's begin with our Chicken segment which reported a record $20 million in operating income and a 7% return on sales in the third fiscal quarter.
Volume was up 4.4% while pricing was up 6% over Q3 of '12 driven by strong demand and favorable domestic markets.
Through operational mix and price improvements we more than offset the $105 million impact of increased feed cost for the quarter.
Consumer demand for chicken is expected to remain strong driven by foodservice promotions along with the value of chicken relative to beef.
Meanwhile analysts project chicken production to be up 2% to 3% next year.
We plan to continue our buy-versus-grow strategy for Chicken meaning we won't overproduce our demand and we'll buy meat on the open market when it's cheaper than we can produce it.
We'll then turn that meat into higher-margin value-added products for our retail and foodservice customers.
Turning to the Pork segment we had a 5% return on sales and $67 million in operating income.
Volume was down 4.7% and our average sales price per pound was up 4% compared to Q3 last year.
Our Pork results were down slightly as we adjusted our volumes to our supply and positioned our sales accordingly.
Domestic availability of pork was up predominantly from an estimated 6% decline in exports year-over-year.
We focused our attention on mix yields and position in the marketplace for pricing.
Looking into 2014 we assume the industry hog supplies will be flat to this year and sufficient for our needs.
And we expect another solid performance from our Pork segment next year.
Moving on to the Beef segment.
We had a 3.1% return on record sales of $3.7 billion with an operating income of $114 million.
Volume was up 3.8% and price per pound was up 2.9% over the same quarter last year.
Beef demand was good despite higher pricing.
Although the first half of the third quarter was more difficult our performance began to rebound in May due to our improved execution which included product mix and yield.
Our performance relative to the industry improved as well.
Additionally our export market share increased.
Industry-wide exports are down 6% year-to-date while ours are up substantially led by Japan.
In 2014 we're expecting fed cattle supplies to continue their decline by another 2% to 3%.
We have put our focus on export market share to improve our mix realization.
The Prepared Foods segment had a 3% return on sales and $24 million in operating income.
Our volume was up 1.3% while average sales price per pound was up 3% over Q3 of '12.
We are investing in Prepared Foods through consumer and promotional spending and staffing support to build the business in several new product categories in 2014 and beyond.
Now we're making good progress on our efforts to grow value-added sales by 6% to 8% annually.
We acquired Circle Foods in the third quarter to expand on our tortilla and Mexican handheld snack food businesses.
This is in addition to the Don Julio acquisition in the second quarter that is adding retail distribution to our tortilla and chip businesses.
We will continue to explore Prepared Food acquisitions while improving execution in our existing businesses to grow that segment.
Also as I mentioned on our previous call our lunchmeat business is negatively impacting the Prepared Foods segment as we undergo an extensive renovation in our Houston plant which is temporarily causing us to incur higher operating costs to maintain service to our customers.
That project is now scheduled for completion in mid fiscal 2014.
In conclusion I'm pleased with our performance overall but our expectations will continue to increase.
We have to stay focused on driving results and there's more to be achieved.
That is the end of our prepared remarks.
We're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Operator we're ready for questions.
Our first question is from Christine McCracken of Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to touch -- you've had a number of challenges here over the past year with record feed costs and some of the trade-related issues.
Can you talk on the outlook for '14 and maybe the 2 to 3 big catalysts that you see as potential drivers for the next 12 months? It's a pretty complicated outlook.
If you go through some of the drivers maybe you can start there.
Sure so here's the way I look at it.
We'll kind of start with the top line.
We do expect our top line sales growth to be at 3% to 4% and our value-added sales growth to be again at 6% to 8%.
By segment Chicken's having a good year this year.
We've got some tailwinds from the environment we're operating in but we will continue to grow our value-added there.
And as our sales increase there that will improve our earnings with what I'd call a relatively modest supply growth particularly in the first half of FY '14.
Solid demand and Chicken's relative low pricing compared to the other proteins should be a very very good year for Chicken.
By the way probably layer on top of that international improvements as well.
So if you look at Beef and Pork the current supply's set up next year to be as good as this year and maybe even a little bit better.
In Prepared Foods we're investing in growth platforms.
We're investing in the businesses that we bought this year and they should be contributing to our earnings in both the latter part of '14 and then -- mid to latter part of '14 and well on into '15 by the way.
And of course you would expect international to continue to improve in '15 as well.
So if you look at that from the segment view then you layer on top of that we got $40 million in interest expense reduction in '14; we're obviously going to throw off a lot of cash and we'll be paying off the converts; we'll have the cash we need to invest in growth whether it's through CapEx or more value-added acquisitions of course continuing to return cash to shareholders by buying back and dividends -- and so when you add all those things up it looks like '14 is going to be a very strong year.
So why stick with such a I guess on a historic basis a relatively conservative "normalized range" on Chicken if you've got the benefit of lower feed you've got a really tight supply for Beef you've got what now looks like it could be a very tight supply of Pork at least for part of the year? Why is it that you stick with a range that's below kind of what you've hit during kind of the upswing in Chicken? Well we talked about it in our written comments in the Q.
I don't know if all that has been seen yet.
I suppose it has.
But we talked about in or above.
And certainly if you look at grain cost going down a lot of work that we've done in the last year around shifting our pricing profiles to be more reflective of grain inputs while sharing risk with our customers they get an insured supply of quality service and innovative capability and we certainly get more stable returns.
We do have a portion of our portfolio that's supply-driven but we continue to minimize that.
Again as Jim mentioned our buy-versus-grow strategy.
We continue to grow our value-added mix which gives us some insulation.
So you add all that stuff up Chicken ought to have a very good year next year.
Our next question Tim Ramey of Davidson.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like -- I mean we've seen the other side of this trade but you should just generate enormous amounts of cash over the next couple of quarters as we think about the relative input costs rolling down.
Have you -- I assume you have -- thought through what that might look like for just working capital requirements? Good question Tim.
We have seen that.
Remember We do have $458 million of converts to pay in early October.
But we do see good cash flow.
We're going to use it wisely.
We're investing heavily in CapEx over and above depreciation and amortization.
We'll continue to look at acquisitions and continue to return cash to shareholders.
So we're really excited about what's ahead of us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just on China Donnie you've given us some very bullish thoughts over time about the opportunity there to grow your own and to provide a high-quality food-safe product.
Should we read anything into the -- I don't think so.
I think the impairment charge related to kind of the old way of doing business in China.
But anything different in kind of what you're thoughts are on the opportunity in China? No not at all.
As a matter of fact you're absolutely right in the way you're thinking.
And the AI outbreak obviously set us back from where we thought our profitability would be.
It shoved it out front a couple more months.
But the one thing it did do was absolutely validate our business model.
From a long-term perspective our bio-secure facilities and our controlled supply chain are the level of protection that Chinese customer base desires and that really bodes well for us out in the future.
What we've got in -- by the way we're on target on our build-out plans and so we're getting a little better at acquiring land which makes me feel optimistic that we'll continue to stay on target with building out our own houses.
And so that's really the key to our future is the plants are running well and getting those houses built and getting this company-controlled production through our plants as quickly as possible.
So we feel really good about the future.
[Operator Instructions] Next we have Ken Goldman of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> This was the first time if my numbers are right that your Beef volumes were up in nearly 3 years and they rose by a substantial amount.
Can you talk how sustainable that trend might be? And is Beef the main reason you're guiding to a total company revenue number that's well above what the street was maybe looking for? Let me -- this is Jim.
I'll start with that.
If you recall we did have a plant that was shut down in around -- I guess it was February or March when it was announced.
That did take about 4.5% of the daily slaughter capacity and about 10% of the slaughter capacity in that 300-mile region out.
And we do have a couple of plants in that region and we did benefit from an increased flow of cattle to our plants in that particular period which did change the balance.
In the north it really wasn't much different.
Let me remind you we really look at what that forward supply of cattle's going to be 2 4 and 8 weeks out.
We really run our plants with that thought process in mind always trying to position ourselves accordingly and to manage gross margin.
So if it gives it to us fine but that isn't the primary goal that we look at the Beef division to generally look at a volume or capacity utilization.
So it's really much more micro than that the way we look at it plant to plant.
In terms of where the sales growth is coming from -- Ken this is Dennis.
It's coming principally from 2 areas and that's Chicken and Prepared Foods.
And that's a function of the value-added sales growth kicking in and international sales growth kicking in.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> It's helpful.
Next question is Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> So again on that theme of international China recently had a WTO case where they have to possibly take off the tariff they put on U.S.
chicken.
Any impact to your business in China or in the U.S.
as a result of that? Farha our estimate would be that the proceedings -- and let me just say all the things that would happen from this ruling and before a likely appeal et cetera et cetera it could take a year or so for there to be any potential for actual tariff reductions and then we'll have to see what happens.
So yes if and when all that happens it would have a positive impact on our business.
But that will likely be a '14 event and could be a little longer.
Research Division</strong> So a general positive long term supportive to exporters in the U.S.? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 other quick follow-ups.
First one is your volumes overall seem to be more flexible quarter-to-quarter than they have been historically.
Could you just share with us how you're possibly managing those businesses differently today than you have in the past and kind of what that means for gross margins and kind of how steady gross margins are going forward? Farha help me a little bit.
Give me a little bit more detail about your question to respond to.
Research Division</strong> Because we noticed that your volume in Chicken was up quite nicely as in Beef and that's where you had the strongest profitability.
And Pork where it was a little bit kind of more choppy of a market your volumes were down significantly.
And so we were wondering if you're managing your plants differently and if there's anything in your plants that's changed that's allowed you to kind of respond to the market faster.
Got it.
Okay now I understand.
So as Jim has often said in his prepared remarks and in lots of investor communications we manage for margin not market share.
And so when the environment needs us to make adjustments in how we manage through our business we have the flexibility to do that.
And obviously we think it's incumbent on us to do a good job at that.
In poultry this year the market dynamics helped a bit in that chicken is relatively low priced compared to the other proteins and so it just made sense for us to push the poultry volume.
We had a great year -- or we are having a great year at retail and fresh.
We're having a great year at foodservice.
We have a good market share of the QSR volume at foodservice which is clearly winning in foodservice today.
So when you add all that up it gives us an opportunity to push volume where it's meaningful to the customer and us.
If you look at our Beef plants -- I'll wrap this up but if you look at our Beef plants we continue to stay surrounded -- I mean our Beef plants are where there's a good supply of cattle so we have the opportunity to grow our business there because we have a good supply of cattle around us.
So Jim would you add anything? The only thing I'd add is on your observation on the Pork again much like I said earlier on Beef we really pay a lot of attention to what that forward supply looks like it's giving us relative to the consumption.
Now you've got to remember that we had less exports in this quarter and we anticipated some pricing pressure and some supply constriction.
So basically we set our hours up to not try to press that and push the live cost up relative to the revenue put our attention on the mix and positioning our revenue on the product that we have to sell so we weren't long.
And so we gave up market share or didn't really -- I don't look at it that way.
We looked at managing for margin at a greater priority than just trying to fill the hours.
We had plenty to run the hours we anticipated so that was really the play.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question on wings.
Your outlook on wings prices because those prices have been a bit volatile? And your thoughts on QSR promotions for wings going into the fall? Sure.
We would look at incremental demand from QSR promotions as a good thing.
And I think we're seeing a bit more inelasticity in wing pricing.
It looks to us like the wing prices are starting to creep back up and I think what you'll see this fall and winter is a seasonal increase in wing prices much like we see every season.
Next question Ryan Oksenhendler Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Donnie I just wanted to talk I guess about -- get your thoughts on the industry's ability to increase production next year.
It sounded like -- I think you said you're expecting a modest increase in the first half of next year.
But when I look at the USDA data you see pullet placements up 3% in June egg sets and chicks placed have been up recently: egg sets up like 3% to 4% over last several weeks; chicks placed were up 4% I think last week.
Even eggs per layer have been up despite talk about the hen life being extended or holding those birds on longer.
I guess what is the industry's ability to increase production? Because I think there's been a lot of talk about the lack of eggs out there.
Yes.
I'll get to that in just a second but a quick comment about -- I think it's important to bear in mind that as Beef prices and to some extent Pork continue to stay high that really provides a bit of a halo effect around poultry pricing and poultry consumption really.
And so we think that next year will be a year that you will continue to see good robust demand for Chicken.
So back to the supply question.
So if we just look at our ability just Tyson's ability to get our pullet orders filled really the only way that we can see a meaningful increase in supply is to hold our hens longer.
And frankly Ryan we just don't have enough housing to hold our hens much longer than 69 weeks.
So we see that for a few more months out in front of us I don't see that the industry -- I don't see that we would have the ability to push it and that's kind of how we view the outlook.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess -- and then in terms of when you see the outlook for production up next year 2% 3% I guess what does that mean in terms of pricing for Chicken? I mean is there still going to be higher prices next year or do you think pricing might come down next year? It could but what we've done -- we worked real hard and I'm real proud of our folks that we've shifted a lot of our pricing profiles to be a little more reflective of grain input.
So today about -- I'd say about half of our pricing contracts are either cost-plus or have some kind of grain cost adjustment in them.
And it works really well for us and our customers sharing the commodity risk because they get an insured supply of quality service and innovation and we get more stable returns.
We do have some of our portfolio that's supply based but we continue to minimize that.
Only -- we're less than 8% of our total sales now that are 1-year fixed-price agreements.
So we've done a great job of continuing to change that pricing strategy.
And if production's up a little bit our buy-versus-grow strategy will work very well for us because we'll just buy excess breast meat or whatever we need on the market and then convert that and grow our value-added mix with it.
And of course we continue to grow our value-added sales and that provides us some commodity insulation there too.
So even if there is a market that might have overall lower prices we still feel comfortable with our earnings potential because of the way we've structured our pricing arrangements.
I would also add one thing.
Keep in mind that fiscal '12 was a very very steep pullback and so you always got to look at your percentage year-over-year over a longer time frame than 1 year just as a cautionary note and look at that total practical supply.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up just one last follow-up on that.
Like in terms of -- in the press release when you say $500 million of lower feed cost next year given the change in contracts where the grain escalator closes up and down is that $500 million net to Tyson or is that $500 million of lower cost and some of that may get passed through to your customers? You're correct in the last way you said that.
And of course our intention would be for us to capture as much of that as we possibly can.
That's been the focus of working with our customers on these pricing strategies.
Next question Brett Hundley from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Actually I want to stay on Chicken first.
And I think Christine asked it but I want to go back to your normalized range in Chicken.
And Donnie everything you just said regarding your outlook for Chicken it's then very hard to not be above your historical normalized range.
And so maybe -- I'm wondering if you would maybe go through some of the drivers as you see them as to what lands you inside that normalized Chicken range versus what puts you above.
Well I'm not going to try to focus on anything to land me inside of it.
I'm just focused on everything to land me above it right? I continue to be very optimistic about our poultry business.
Obviously grain looks like it will do -- will have a good year but it's not at the end yet and so you don't really know there.
But yes if you look at our outlook for growing our value-added sales those are higher-sales items and higher-margin items and very valuable by the way both to consumers and to the customers.
The guys have done a great job on our pricing strategies.
They continue to do a great job on their operational efficiencies and we'll never lose focus of that.
We're in a good position relative to the other proteins.
Our international business is making good improvements so that will layer on on top of good operational performance domestically in '14.
So yes there's every reason to feel really good about our poultry business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to rotate back over to red meat and talk about Beef in particular from an industry standpoint.
So we talked about how Chicken and Pork might see some expansion in 2014.
And then of course where cattle supplies could tighten.
And so I'm curious to get your opinion on how high-priced beef works its way back through the system.
Do you expect the industry to trim capacity in 2014? Are there regions of the U.S.
that present more of an opportunity as opposed to a concern in your view? If you could just talk to that I'd appreciate it.
Let me add some detail to that.
We expect as we said to see fed cattle supplies drop 2% to 3% and that's nothing more than what we think the '13 calf crop estimate will be and the '12 because that's our future supply chain.
Cattle will be fed where the lowest cost to produce -- or the lowest cost of gain is which centers around the Corn Belt and the High Plains which means there'll be fewer cattle fed probably out into the Eastern Plains et cetera.
And again that overall supply will continue to come down.
Whether we see carcass weights come back up to offset that I don't know.
I mean I've been thinking carcass weights have topped out for a number of years and I don't expect to see a radical increase in weight to offset that.
And therefore if you look at purely the elasticity you're going to see a reduction in supply generally increase the cutout like it has over time.
And we're seeing a stronger interest in particularly Japanese importation of U.S.
beef which is gaining back its share.
So all of that tells me beef's going to continue to increase in price.
We continue to put our focus on our own operations which is managing the mix; getting our international share up which we've done an excellent job of doing particularly in Japan; and focusing on our controllables which are yields cost quality service et cetera.
So that's the overall play.
Research Division</strong> I mean outside of Japan do you see...
That's how we run it.
Research Division</strong> Outside of Japan do you see other export market opportunities in 2014 that aren't being talked about? We've since continued -- our market share in Mexico's gone up even though the country per se has dropped relative to year-over-year.
I expect to see Asia as a whole continue to have an increase.
And the reality is though with the 2% to 3% down in fed supplies you're not going to see overall exports increase just because we'll have a limited supply.
But there'll be a strong interest in acquiring high-quality grain-fed beef around the world.
I don't see that really going backwards.
Next question Tim Tiberio of Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is on the outlook.
Should we expect that the international segment could be broadly profitable for 2014? Oh yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's a short and sweet answer.
And as far as the M&amp;A outlook you've seen some tuck-in acquisitions over the last few quarters.
Are there any regions that you see I guess increased opportunity since the last 3 to 6 months? And if there's opportunities on the horizon what size of transactions are you willing to look at? I'm just trying to get a sense of when you look at your overall capital allocation whether that's a top priority going into 2014.
Sure.
So this year -- well this upcoming year '14 we have opportunity in our business to overspend versus our depreciation so we'll be doing that.
And then -- because we've got some good organic opportunities as well.
Now looking at acquisitions continue to expect us -- we would call them bolt-ons continue to expect us to look at bolt-on acquisitions.
A sweet spot acquisition for us is probably sub-$100 million that fits an important gap that we see in assuring that our consumers and customers have their needs met in the marketplace.
So as we've talked about before value-added whether it's poultry or in a broad -- our very broad range of Prepared Foods items continues to be a great focus in the future.
Not only that type -- those types of products but also we've talked about the c-store channel and alternative channels and those and good opportunities we have there.
So we have both product growth opportunities and gaps we need to fill and channel growth opportunities and gaps we need to fill and we'll continue to be very focused on layering in acquisitions that help us meet those needs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are there any regions that you're particularly focused on or you're pretty agnostic in filling the product and channel...
Yes we've got -- sorry I jumped in a little quick.
But we've got a great -- number one we have great customer penetration.
We have great service great quality that our customers have come to expect and we don't ever expect to let them down.
So good good customer relationships.
And plus we've got a very very broad and a very efficient national refrigerated distribution network that lends itself to moving products around the country very efficiently.
And so that helps us to have a national view of acquisitions.
Next question Robert Moskow Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Donnie I wanted to ask a follow-up to Ryan's question about Chicken supply and how quickly the industry might increase.
You talked about your own I guess limitations as to your capacity to house more hens but you didn't really talk about the rest of the industry.
And my understanding is that a lot of the breeding flock has moved to Mexico.
And maybe if you can kind of start there and talk about how you think that's influencing the industry's ability to -- or inability to increase supplies and then what you're seeing outside of your own 4 walls.
All right.
So no doubt that with the AI issue in Mexico that there was a lot of hatching eggs that went down to Mexico.
What we see today is that the supply on the Mexican market particularly in the live markets but also in the New York dressed is back up to a level now that would indicate that that supply is -- maybe not has been but is well along in being restored.
And so the price of a dozen hatching eggs has gone down in the U.S.
and then here in the last 4 to 6 weeks you've seen industry sets be up a little bit.
But I think their ability to increase is limited.
I know our ability to increase is limited to the -- our inability to hold a hen past 65 weeks because we simply just don't have the housing.
I don't know how prevalent that same issue would have across the industry and I can only speak for ourselves but I don't expect that the supply -- I expect the supply to be in a similar range for a few more months out front and I get that basically from the constraint on our business before an increase in the actual pullet supply could increase which is likely to happen towards the end of the calendar year.
So that's how we see it.
I can only use our business as a proxy for what might be happening but that's the way we look at it.
Now you've got to watch weights too.
I mean everybody get -- we talk a lot about egg sets and chicks placed but slaughter pounds is what ultimately matters.
And as we look forward though we see a relatively modest supply growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a follow-up on that.
Pricing in Chicken it probably will come down at some point.
When do you think you'll start to see it? If nothing else based on your grain contracts you said there's a lag with customers.
So should it be by the end of the year or the beginning of calendar next year or maybe not at all? I think if you looked at typical seasonal patterns adjusted for where we are today you would expect that late in the fall November December pricing would be lower than what it is today I mean just looking at the seasonal impacts.
Now I hasten on to say we'll take seasonal cuts like we have in the last 2 years because we are just not going to get long on supply.
And as we look out at our forward demand we're going to take a seasonal cut.
And then if there's meat out on the market we'll buy.
And what we've been able to do is by working with our customers and sharing some of the commodity risk we get a stable return in up or down grain markets.
And that feels good not only to us but it feels good to our customers.
And so I like where we are.
Our folks have done a great job in the last 12 to 15 months or so of changing our pricing portfolio to give us greater stability.
And that's what we're constantly looking for is more consistent and stable earnings growth and our business model is structured to be less volatile than the pure commodity players.
Next question Diane Geissler CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your comments on the restaurant expectation flat to up of 1% in fiscal '14.
It's been a while since we've been in a deflationary mode.
And every day I watch corn prices come off.
And at some point lower grain prices have to leak into the broader market I would think.
So I guess in sort of a broadly deflationary environment isn't -- is it -- I don't know I guess.
How do I word this? Is it unrealistic to expect that there's a little bit of pent-up demand out there from the consumer perspective given that we've just been in sort of the economic doldrums for 5 or 6 years now that you wouldn't expect traffic in the restaurant channel to be a little bit better than flat to up 1%? Yes as we canvass the marketplace with our customers our comments are reflecting what we're hearing back from them.
And hey we look at Technomic and all kinds of industry sources to try to get a read on what is going on out in front of us.
I do feel like there's pent-up demand.
Demand has moved from foodservice to retail.
Demand has moved maybe from casual to QSR.
And as it moves around we have the flexibility to move around with it.
And so what we really look at is what we think the overall tonnage growth will be and that keeps landing on about 0.5% to maybe up 1%.
And if there is pent-up demand that's good news for us.
If it's not still got a great year ahead of us.
And if it moves around between the different parts of foodservice or different aspects of retail we've got a lot of flexibility built into our production model and our distribution model to be able to reach that demand wherever it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I appreciate those comments.
Can I just ask about this sentence in your press release about the short-term -- rates are shorter-term in nature and that there's a time delay? Am I to read that as grain prices are coming down and we hold our price to the foodservice channel at the higher level? And eventually we reset those contracts lower as grain prices come down so there'll be a quarter or 2 where you maintain a slightly higher margin than the cash market would reflect? Well first of all our grain prices just for perspective -- we pretty much know what our cost of goods are going to be in Q4.
And then you take your cost of goods in Q4 and then move that forward into Q1 and then the receipts in Q1 really help impact Q2.
And so there is some of that I think related in that comment.
And again if it's related to the Prepared Foods remarks those are -- there's generally with the way those pricing structures were set up there's generally a lag a quarterly lag going forward.
So as raw material prices go down then we get the benefit of that in the subsequent quarter.
And I think -- I'm guessing that is probably more likely to be what that comment was -- is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It was really in the outlook section on Chicken where you say "Sales contracts are formula based or shorter term.
It allows you to adjust pricing when input costs fluctuate.
May be a lag time for price changes." I just read that as the margins will be a little bit richer in the early periods of deflation because you'll be holding prices constant with prior period grain prices.
There certainly was as grain ran up because you won't -- this is Jim.
You don't bill them over the real short term week to week so they tend to be over a quarterly trend.
So that's the basis behind that comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that clarification.
Can I just ask where do you stand in your China Chicken operations in terms of vertical integration? You said that your were getting -- I think the quote was you're getting a little bit better at getting the land to build the houses on.
But where do you stand in terms of vertical integration? Are you still going to hit that by the end of fiscal '14? Well we're at 50% -- we'll be at 50% company-owned birds at the end of this fiscal year.
And then our goal is to be nearing 100% in company-owned birds at the end of FY '14.
And so that should help certainly in the profitability of those complexes.
Research Division</strong> Have all of the meat scares and scandals that China had over the winter helped the dialogue with the government there? Yes no doubt about it.
Next question Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to talk about Chicken.
First question is on your Chicken -- U.S.
Chicken performance relative to peers.
So before I ask the question can you tell us what your U.S.
Chicken EBIT margin was for the quarter? We don't break those out Akshay.
Research Division</strong> Was it higher than 7%? Well yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what I'm trying to get at there is in the past we've talked a little bit about when spot margins are peaking what will Tyson's Chicken P&amp;L look like? And one of your largest competitors just posted sort of a 9% EBIT margin in the U.S.
business.
So you guys are lagging that.
And when I look at my numbers the revenue per pound was up 5% according to my estimates but came in below sort of what I was expecting and seems like was somewhat softer.
But how would you rank your U.S.
Chicken performance relative to your peers? Would you have moved down a little bit a couple of ranking points in Agri Stats because these commodity guys are doing better in this environment? Or how do you rank your performance relative to your peers this quarter? So we are involved in a couple of benchmarking services.
And what we typically look at is our rolling 12-month performance and our goal is to always be in the top quartile.
And so we are there so we feel good about that.
In the last month or 2 we don't compare as favorably on the operating margins because the commodity players are getting the benefit of the peak of the commodity markets.
Our goal is to have more consistent and more stable earnings and so our margin -- our model is structured so that we're less volatile than just the pure commodity players.
But we feel very good -- as we look at the cost components and the pricing components relative to our expectations we feel very good that our poultry business is operating very well.
Now Jim made a comment earlier that we continue to have things that we strive for and continue to push for improvements and so we can get better but we're operating very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the next question then is what can -- I mean first of all have margins in Chicken peaked for you quarterly margins? For Tyson? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the rough math I'm doing is you had $0.10 per pound in EBIT this quarter and that was with a $0.05 year-over-year increase in cost per pound.
So you're guiding to if you lock all your needs and corn stays where it is a $0.05 decrease year-over-year in feed cost.
So all else equal that would be a $0.20 EBIT.
Now I know all else is never equal but what I'm really trying to get to here is I think you can get to your 7% EBIT margin next year even if prices decrease by 8%.
So roughly I mean am I thinking about this correctly? I mean I think a lot of people are asking the same question in a different way but it seems like next year should be above your normal range.
I think you're thinking about it right.
I would -- the pricing being down 8% or whatever I'm not going to go to those kind of details.
But I think you're thinking about it right.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I think I heard -- did I hear this correctly that you are expecting an increase in revenues in the Chicken segment next year? Can you just get into a little bit more details on what's driving that? I mean how much -- what kind of percentage increase are we expecting and now much of that is international? And what's your general expectations for U.S.
Chicken revenues right now? Okay so I'll give you as much detail as I can.
Yes we do expect Chicken revenues to increase.
And just like our strategy says we will be doing that by driving value-added Chicken and our international Chicken business.
And so we have every expectation of growing that business and leading it with 6% to 8% growth in our value-added and 12% to 16% growth in our international business.
So those are the key drivers.
We remain focused on that and that's going to be what drives revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> So what kind of underlying commodity market price are you expecting for the remaining part of your business? I mean is the remaining part of Chicken expected in your numbers to be down right now or flattish? Or just any guidance there would be helpful.
Yes down a little bit.
Yes we look at the same industry sources for pricing whether it's Informa or EMI or whoever folks might use as the industry and market expectations.
And so we look at those and then apply a little bit of our own internal intelligence to that to come to our expectations for our plan.
But we think those folks are directionally correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one for Jim on Beef.
So can you just help us understand what on the Beef side what's the underlying assumption for industry economics? I mean you're saying you're going to have a similar year as compared to this year next year in Beef.
What does that assume for the industry margin if I may? Because I'm just trying to get a sense of how you're thinking about how the industry is playing out because obviously we came -- we're coming from a very bad year for the industry last year.
There seems to be a major improvement that's happened in the last 5 months.
I don't know how much of that is seasonal.
I would love to get your perspective.
But what is the underlying industry margin assumption for you guys to have a similar year compared to this year? You're not probably going to like my answer but again the industry margin is the relative greater change of revenue all-in cut out drop et cetera to the cattle price and the adjustment week-to-week and month-to-month relative to the revenue to the supply.
So we did see the slaughter capacity change.
I actually -- we don't place as much emphasis watching the industry margin as you might think.
We really always just pay very close attention to what the forward supply is going to give us what we think the pricing and positioning needs to be what the export markets are and then a whole lot more attention onto what we have under our own control which is mix change international mix change yields term yields et cetera.
So my view is the industry margin should be very -- it should be similar simply because we've seen the adjustment that I mentioned.
But the margin that we focus on is within our control.
So I can't give you any more perspective than that.
Next question Ken Zaslow Bank of Montral.
Just 2 questions.
One is a housekeeping question.
One is more a bigger picture.
In terms of your corn estimate does that include basis or exclude basis? It includes basis.
That's all-in.
And we always talk about cost of good -- what the grain impact in cost of goods sold.
Not receipts not purchased.
It's always cost of goods sold.
Okay great.
And then takeaway from Prepared Foods -- look you made a couple of smaller acquisitions.
You're on the kind of reviewing or restructuring your business.
What is the cadence to which we should start to see the improvement in that business through 2014 and when will we see it kind of hit? I'm assuming in the first half it will be lower margin.
By the back half we may see more representative of what the real margins are.
Can you just walk us through that? You're exactly right Ken.
The lunchmeat deal has been pushed out another quarter or so to get to the full run rate.
And so the front half is a little bit like what we're seeing now but then a lot of this stuff starts really kicking in in the back half.
And then you get to layer on what you would expect is a good year on '15.
So some help in '14 more help is coming in '15 and beyond.
Would you think that that cadence for 2014 is representative of the entire company as well? It sounds like that -- just how you're talking about the corn and the feed cost getting better as we go into the back half of the year it almost seems like you're going to be building through the 2014 as well because you said on average this quarter is representative you times it by 4 or whatever that's kind of the guidance you've given us as an outlay.
But it seems like it's more like you're going to be growing your momentum through the year and you can expect to see the growth continuing into 2015.
Yes that's a good way to look at it.
Our final question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted -- one more question.
If you could talk a little bit about Prepared Foods and what it takes to get back into the normalized margin range for that business.
So we're investing in our Prepared Foods business in a lot of ways.
Some staffing.
We're doing some consumer spend.
We're doing some customer spend.
We obviously have a big operational spend in that business.
And recall that Prepared Foods for us is a broad range of not only products but different businesses at different stages of maturity.
We've got some businesses in Prepared Foods that are mature and that generate great returns and others that we're building and they will begin contributing significantly as we move out front.
So we've got some gas in our portfolio: ethnic handheld snacks.
And we're going to continue to invest in these businesses.
I like to look -- I like to think of Prepared Foods a lot like our Chicken business a couple of years ago.
And we've made steady progress on not only the operational side of that but now driving the value-added sales mix and incorporating more market talent and more map spend into that business to drive it.
And that's the exact same thing that we'll use in Prepared Foods.
We've got great customer penetration.
We've got great distribution capabilities.
We've just got to broaden the portfolio improve the operating efficiencies and then spend against some demand that we feel like we can generate.
So that concludes our call.
Thanks for joining us today.
Thank you for your interest in our company and you all have a great day.
Thank you again for your participation.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now I'll turn today's meeting over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter and 2013 Fiscal Year.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer.
I need to remind you our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read today's press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
As we close the books on fiscal '13 I want to celebrate what Tyson Foods achieved this past year.
We produced record earnings of $2.26 a share or 15% growth over the previous year surpassing our goal of at least 10% EPS growth.
We grew sales by 4% achieving our goal and reaching a new record of $34.4 billion.
Operating income grew 7% or $89 million over the prior year despite $470 million of incremental feed cost.
We grew sales of value-added products by nearly 6% against a very aggressive goal of 6% to 8%.
We made significant progress in building our international Chicken production growing sales by 20% against a goal of 12% to 16%.
We returned $650 million to shareholders by paying out $100 million in dividends and buying back 21.1 million shares of stock for $550 million.
Our stock was up 78% for the fiscal year and we reached a new all-time high stock price.
ROIC continues to be over 18%.
At the end of the fiscal year net debt was $1.3 billion and net debt to cap was at 17%.
We made 2 Prepared Foods acquisitions Don Julio and Circle Foods.
And we had a greater focus on growth drivers while maintaining a steadfast commitment to operational excellence which is carrying us into another year of growth in 2014.
That's what we did.
Now let's look at the macro environment we were operating in.
We continued to see a shift away from foodservice into retail reflecting the overall economy.
Now that's not to say our foodservice business wasn't successful.
In fact it did very well in a challenging year for the foodservice industry in general.
We were nimble to respond as consumers moved among proteins and channels depending on their confidence in the economy and the effect gas prices had on disposable income.
We're also seeing more bifurcation among consumers between those choosing higher-priced value-added products and those moving down the value stream to save money.
According to Nielsen data for the year coinciding with our fiscal year total fresh meat pounds sold at retail were up 1.4% while pricing was up 2.3%.
Ground beef and fresh beef pounds declined 0.3% and 1.4% respectively as price rose over 3%.
Pork pounds increased 5% as price declined 4%.
Fresh chicken was the winner with pounds up 2% even with a 7% increase in pricing indicating that chicken was still viewed as a value relative to the other proteins.
Tyson captured share as the #1 brand of fresh chicken in the United States.
Now let's take a moment to talk about where we're going and how we'll get there.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing several new leadership positions.
This structure is focused on the key elements of our strategy allowing us to accelerate our growth reinforce our operational excellence and create opportunities for our team by deepening our best in class talent.
By separating our poultry and Prepared Foods division we are sharpening our focus on these 2 crucial growth areas.
Noel White a proven leader in our fresh meats business will now be leading our poultry division.
Steve Stouffer a 30-year veteran of our fresh meats business will lead our fresh meats team.
Donnie King will be leading our Prepared Foods division and will create an integrated sales and marketing organization to strengthen our customer relationships.
Hal Carper will lead in the areas of strategy and new ventures.
I'm excited about these changes because they will allow us to capitalize on these leaders' considerable experience and talent as we carry out our long-term growth plans.
As we make these transitions we will minimize distractions and concentrate on customer service product quality and innovation.
This morning we'll also announce Jim Lochner's decision to retire at the end of our 2014 fiscal year.
During the upcoming year Jim will be working with the fresh meats group to ensure smooth transition and he will help us make the move to a new organizational structure.
I personally want to thank Jim for being an integral part of developing our performance-based metrics-driven approach to business.
Operational excellence is a hallmark of our culture.
And as Jim makes his transition he will help us sustain this mindset for long-term success and growth beyond 2014.
He will continue in an advisory role for several more years.
I'm happy that Jim will get to enjoy the rewards of his 4 decades of hard work and dedication.
I just said a lot about growth and strategy in the future.
But I'd like to give you some specific examples that illustrate how we're executing on these broad concepts.
So we study consumers' needs and behaviors and we have identified opportunities to grow retail value-added sales beyond center-of-the-plate chicken.
Breakfast emerged as a high-potential category.
Wright brand Breakfast Sausage is a natural follower to Wright Bacon and a category that makes perfect sense for us as a leading pork processor.
We recently rolled out Wright sausage starting in the Southeast where Wright Bacon has the strongest following.
And we're supporting this premium product line with highly targeted media.
Another breakfast category frozen handheld is also a good fit for us.
At nearly $1 billion in annual sales it's a large category that grew more than 20% over the last year.
Consumers told us they think a good breakfast should include protein and Tyson is the brand they trust to deliver high-quality protein.
48% of consumers who buy frozen breakfast items also buy Tyson frozen value-added chicken.
So we have a base of familiarity and positive perceptions as we enter this new era.
We're launching 7 products under the Tyson DAY STARTS brand that will include biscuit sandwiches flatbreads and wrapped omelettes.
After consumer taste testing 93% of consumers who already buy in this category said they would buy Tyson DAY STARTS and 89% said our products were better than anything currently on the market.
Sell-in is underway now and we've received a great response from our customers.
We'll begin shipping in January and we'll support our entry into this category with significant MAP spending.
DAY STARTS is a great example of our push for innovation as we set a goal to have 20% of our domestic poultry and Prepared Foods sales coming from new product innovation.
We define that as something that we've developed within the past 3 years.
And in 2013 we exceeded our goal with 21.5% of our sales resulting from innovation.
Turning to another growth area international.
This time last year projections for improvement in our international performance would be around $80 million but due to avian influenza in China and a weak fourth quarter in Mexico we improved by only $45 million.
I'll quickly add that I'm still confident in our business plans in China Brazil Mexico and India and believe that we're headed in the right direction for long-term success.
Before we go to Dennis I'd like to give you an indication of what to expect from Tyson in 2014.
First on the list is paying off the $458 million in convertible notes which we did in early October in cash.
It should be another very good year of growth and we're off to a strong start especially in the Chicken segment.
On our last call we said overall 2014 would look a lot like the back half of 2013 times 2.
We still see it that way meaning we should over-deliver on our EPS growth goal of at least 10% a year.
And like 2013 we think earnings will be more weighted to the third and fourth quarters.
As a reminder our other annual goal is for 3% to 4% top line sales growth 6% to 8% value-added sales growth and 12% to 16% international sales growth.
We expect an ROIC that continues to grow and drive shareholder value.
With AI and China hopefully behind us our plan is to reach breakeven profitability and processing almost 100% company controlled birds by the end of fiscal year.
As I just explained we'll roll out several major product launches including Tyson DAY STARTS and Wright brand Breakfast Sausage.
We'll stay focused on our strategy investing in growth and setting ourselves up for a great 2015 and beyond.
Now let's go to Dennis for the financial update followed by Jim with the segment results.
Thank you Donnie and good morning everyone.
I also want to personally thank Jim publicly for his great leadership role and our turnaround and ongoing success.
Jim I thoroughly enjoy working with you and I'm glad you're still going to be around to help us achieve our long-term strategic plans.
In this morning's earnings release we reported fourth quarter earnings of $0.70 per share up 23% compared to $0.57 per share a year ago.
As a result of another strong quarter I'm pleased to report a record year of earnings from continuing operations of $2.31 or $2.26 after excluding the currency translation adjustment in the second quarter.
This $2.26 adjusted EPS compares to $1.97 adjusted EPS in 2012 up 15% year-over-year and beats our previous best of $2.22 in 2010 despite $1.4 billion in increased feed costs and many other significant challenges since 2010.
Pretax return on invested capital for the past 12 months was 18.5%.
Over the past 3 years pretax ROIC has averaged just over 18% again in the face of considerable challenges.
Our operating cash flow for 2013 was $1.3 billion and is consistent with our 4-year average.
We have shown the ability to sustain high levels of cash generation and this should increase as we continue to grow our earnings.
Capital expenditures were $133 million for the quarter bringing the 2013 total to $558 million.
During the fourth quarter we acquired 9.9 million shares for $300 million under our share repurchase program.
Since May 2011 we have repurchased 43.3 million shares for $950 million.
Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 32.5%.
For the full year the effective tax rate from continuing operations was 32.6% or 33.1% excluding the currency translation adjustment in the second quarter.
Net debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months was 0.7x.
On a gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 1.3x.
Including cash of more than $1.1 billion net debt was just under $1.3 billion.
Total liquidity was $2.1 billion well above our targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt was just over $2.4 billion.
I'm pleased to report that our $458 million convertible notes matured 2 weeks after our year end and we paid the balance with cash on hand.
Our diluted average shares for the fourth quarter was 370 million.
This included dilution of 12 million for our convertible notes 6 million for the warrants and 5 million for stock options.
As we previously reported we had call options for the convertible notes which will cancel out its dilution starting in Q1 of 2014.
As a result our diluted shares will decrease in Q1 by the 12 million shares from these convertible notes.
Additionally in Q1 we should realize a reduction of another 4 million diluted shares versus Q4 of 2013 as we benefit from the full impact of the Q4 share repurchases.
Now looking forward here are some additional thoughts on 2014.
We expect revenues of $36 billion up almost 5% over 2013.
Net interest expense should be about $100 million down $38 million from 2013 primarily due to the payoff of our convertible notes.
The effective tax rate should be around 35%.
Our preliminary CapEx plan is around $700 million up $140 million from 2013 and $180 million greater than our depreciation and amortization expense.
Based on our average share price in Q4 we expect our diluted shares in Q1 to be around 354 million prior to considering changes in our stock price which would impact the dilution from the warrants and stock options.
This also does not reflect the impact of any additional share buybacks.
And finally this morning we reported our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend from $0.05 to $0.075 per share on our Class A common stock a 50% increase payable on December 13.
Over the past 4 years we have made a lot of improvements that have provided us with a balance sheet that we believe is a competitive advantage and is a solid foundation for our strategic growth plan.
During this time we have generated $5 billion in operating cash flows and that is after funding $700 million in working capital increases.
We invested $2.5 billion back into our business including acquisitions which is $0.5 billion greater than depreciation and amortization and is a further reflection of our growth plans.
We also paid down over $1 billion in debt and returned $1.3 billion back to our shareholders via share buybacks and dividends.
Our priorities for excess cash remain the same which include additional capital spending to improve and grow our existing businesses acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products and our international footprint and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while ensuring we maintain plenty of liquidity at our disposal.
As Donnie mentioned earlier we are off to a strong start in 2014 and we still expect it to look like the back half of 2013 times 2 with the strongest quarters in Q3 and Q4.
This would be well ahead of our annual goal to deliver at least 10% EPS growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Jim for a closer look into our operating segments.
Donnie Dennis I appreciate your kind words earlier.
I've always had a goal to retire at 62 and we have worked on the development of the team and the organizational structure which allows me to accomplish this.
I feel very fortunate to have worked with some really great people over the last several decades.
I'm excited to begin the next chapter of my life and I'm also very excited about the future of Tyson Foods.
I really like the new organizational structure and the senior leadership changes and I look forward to supporting this great team over the next year and beyond.
I am confident Tyson is poised to move to the next level.
The new structure processes people and strategy are aligning in such a way that the earnings power of this company can move to a higher plane and I'm looking forward to watching it happen.
Now let's talk about the segments.
Starting with the Chicken segment in the fourth quarter we reported $175 million in operating income and a 5.5% return on sales.
Volume and pricing increased 2.4% and 4.3% respectively over Q4 last year.
Through operational mix and price improvements we offset a $30 million increase in feed costs for the quarter.
For the fiscal year the Chicken segment produced $646 million in operating income and a 5.3% return on sales.
Volume for the year was up nearly 2% while price per pound was up over 6% which partially offset the $470 million incremental feed costs for the year.
Our buy versus grow strategy continues to work for us.
By keeping our production short of demand we can make opportunistic purchases on the open market for breast meat used and value-added products while keeping our late quarter inventories in check.
We will maintain this strategy into fiscal 2014 as it allows us to be responsive to customer needs and market shifts.
Seven weeks into the new fiscal year the Chicken segment is off to a strong start.
We expect Chicken supplies to be up 3% to 4% for the year but we also expect demand to be up as well due to the relative strength in beef and pork pricing and chicken features at both foodservice and retail.
We will continue to diversify to a more value-added product mix in total particularly focusing on dark meat products for domestic customers.
We currently project our feed costs will decrease approximately $500 million in fiscal '14.
However the cost of grain is only 1 factor in our pricing conversations with customers.
Chicken supply and consumer demand along with the value we provide through quality service and innovation are all part of the pricing dynamic.
They are important factors in the growth of our domestic Chicken business as well as we continue on a path to develop more value-added chicken products in addition to increasing chicken production in our international locations.
Turning to the Beef segment.
In the fourth quarter we generated $162 million in operating income and a 4.3% return on sales.
Volume was up 4% while price was up nearly 5%.
For the fiscal year operating income was $296 million with a 2.1% return on sales.
Volume for the year was down nearly 2% while pricing increased 6.6%.
Our beef exports increased while overall industry exports declined.
2014 will have challenges similar to those we experienced in 2013.
And like last year we'll concentrate on being a best-in-class producer growing exports increasing revenue through premium programs and brands such as Star Ranch Angus Open Prairie Natural beef Reuben brand Corned Beef and our Case Ready program.
And we'll continue providing our customers with options by adding value to wholesale cuts such as our closely trimmed subprimals.
Moving on to the Pork segment.
Operating income for the fourth quarter was $68 million with a 4.9% return on sales.
Pricing was up 12.6% on a 5.6% decrease in volume.
For the fiscal year operating income was $332 million and return on sales was 6.1%.
Price was up approximately 2% on 3.6% fewer pounds.
A ban on ractopamine limited total U.S.
exports to Russia and China.
We are working with our customers in both countries especially China to meet their specific needs.
We adjusted by keeping our supply in balance with demand which accounts for some of our volume decrease.
Additionally we adjusted our mix to increase price realization.
The effects of the PED virus started showing up this month although we are not expecting shortages in our plants the overall reduced volumes should be favorable for wholesale pricing.
As with Beef we continued to increase revenue in the Pork segment through product mix and premium programs such as case-ready pork and the high-quality Chairman's Reserve and Supreme Tender brands.
We think 2014 will be another solid year for the Pork segment and we will work to maintain and build on our reputation as a best-in-class producer.
In the Prepared Foods segment we generated $16 million in operating income for the fourth quarter with a 1.8% return on sales.
Price was up nearly 4% and volume increased 5.2%.
For the fiscal year Prepared Foods operating income was $101 million and return on sales was 3%.
Price was up less than 1% and volume was up almost 2%.
Our Prepared Foods segment is a mix of strong profitable businesses growth platforms and businesses in the early stages of turnaround and startup.
While not in the normalized range there are numerous factors that led to these results including conscious decisions we made.
Because we view Prepared Foods as a growth vehicle we have been investing heavily in new product categories and expanding existing categories.
In addition to the frozen breakfast and raw sausage Donnie mentioned we're entering the smoked dinner meats category as well.
As we've discussed before we're investing to make a push to expand our highly value-added offerings in all channels.
We expect our Houston lunchmeat plant to come back online in December.
We have invested in that location to allow us more packaging and mix flexibility because we see it as a longer-term higher-margin play.
As we work to become a low-cost high-quality lunchmeat provider we expect steady improvement in this business over the year.
Although investing in turnarounds and startup businesses along with MAP spending have diluted Prepared Foods segment profitability in 2013 we're building a foundation for future growth.
If we added these investments back in profitability would have been in the historical range.
Looking 2 to 3 years out our model suggests strong returns for the products and categories we're working on now.
In closing I'd like to thank the Tyson management team for their attention to details starting with taking care of the customer taking care of our team members and driving a spirit of continuous improvement.
Their enthusiasm to take on new challenges has been very gratifying.
That's the end of our prepared remarks.
Candy we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ken Zaslow of Bank of Montral.
Jim I just want to congratulate you on your retirement.
It is well deserved and we will definitely miss you.
Thank you very much for all your help throughout the years.
So we will miss you.
I appreciate that very much.
Let me just go to some questions as well.
Look Tyson's free cash flow has accelerated over the last couple of quarters to like new levels.
So my question is at these current run rates are these the current -- is this the current run rate of cash that you expect at these current levels? Or can it even accelerate to new levels? And your share repurchases clearly have accelerated in the last quarter.
Is that the new run rate of how you're thinking about cash -- deployment of cash for the next year or 2? Thanks Ken.
Multipart answer.
First I want to say that yes we are on a new run rate as we continue to grow earnings like we said back half times 2.
That would certainly mean more cash flow and so more options for us to deal with that cash flow.
So we want to just reiterate that it's first on growth CapEx over and above depreciation for our existing businesses acquisition activity and then returning it back to shareholders.
But you're right cash flow is growing.
Okay.
But what about share repurchases? Because I think you did 300 going from 250 -- it was 550 for the year.
You're at 300 for the last quarter.
I don't know if the 550 600 is the new run rate on an annual basis that we could start thinking about it.
Is that the way to think about it? It certainly would be more Ken.
But it depends on what might come in front of it in terms of growth opportunities.
Okay.
And then my second question is when I look at your numbers I get that you've committed to doubling the back half of 2013 throughout the year but if I actually take your numbers and use your quantitative guidance I get a much higher number than what you're saying.
I'm not saying that you do not want to be conservative here but is there something wrong with my math of how I'm doing it? Because the numbers that you're saying with the share count where it is plus the Chicken margins being at the higher end or above Beef being the same I'm getting to more -- numbers -- at least $0.10 $0.15 ahead of what you're implying on the double.
Can you talk to that? Sure Ken.
Like we said we're off to a good start particularly in Chicken in this fiscal year which feels really good.
I think the things you can have in mind we feel good about our top line sales growth.
We feel good about our value-added sales growth being in that 6% to 8% range.
In Chicken we are heading into a lower-cost environment.
A little bit higher supply but we also think that will be offset with some call it pricing halo effect from really high-priced beef and pork this year.
So we like the way that the chicken supply and demand fundamentals are setting up.
We'll continue to get some tailwinds from grain moving on through our Q1 and then into Q2.
And as Jim said in his comments we've done a great job with our quality service and innovation and we think that will pay off in our pricing conversations with our customers because they view our product offering as one that has additional value because of those attributes.
If you look at Beef and Pork it looks like to me that the supply dynamic is set up next year or 2014 to about like 2013.
Jim talked about Prepared Foods certainly with Houston coming on -- our new technology coming on in December.
We expect that business our lunchmeat business to get better through the year.
So that has the potential to be additive.
In our international business Mexico has been a little difficult for us in the pricing so far this quarter.
But that deal seems to be -- the market seems to be firming up a little bit.
The supply seems to be -- giving us an opportunity to get our pricing up on top of us a little bit.
China is still -- we're still getting better in China as we get more of our housing in our company-controlled housing our costs will get better.
So as we ramp through the year we anticipate that part of our business being profitable by the tail end of the year.
So it feels like to us we've got some early tailwinds and some possibilities to gain momentum through the year.
So that's how we feel about it.
Next question Brett Hundley of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jim let me offer my congratulations as well.
If I can even offer congratulations on your retirement I don't know if you can call it that.
It sounds like they're going to hold on to you pretty well but congratulations.
Yes.
We'll be [indiscernible] to that though don't worry.
But thank you.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with Pork.
Jim I thought your comment was very interesting on not expecting shortages at company plants related to PED.
And I wanted to work through some of my calculations with you and see maybe if this is how you're thinking about it or just to get further clarity.
But when we heard about PED expanding like it has been in North Carolina we were thinking maybe anywhere from a 3% to 5% potential reduction in headcount call it February through April May June kind of a thing.
However we're also noticing increased weights increased litter rates increased gilt retention.
We think there could be stronger demand in periods going forward potentially related to demand from Asia for U.S.
product.
And so I had thought that we could see some offsets there.
But I just want to get a to see if you agree with that; but b what you're really talking about when you state that you don't expect big reductions at your plants.
Let me start with some of the swine veterinarians that we've talked to around the country would suggest that about 10% of the sows in the U.S.
somewhere a little -- on the 550 -- 550 000 zone might be impacted.
And generally it's thought it might impact 10% productivity on the effective herd.
So that quickly equates to about a potential on an annualized basis of 1%.
So the key will be just kind of at what points and what locations.
But it seems that Oklahoma and North Carolina zones were early impacted haven't heard yet.
Although I'm sure that we expect to see some impact the upper Midwest and the Corn Belt.
But again if I base it on that we kind of expect to see that 1% impact could be greater but we also -- it would maybe just negate the productivity increases we've been seeing.
And we -- and I agree with you I think particularly on the wholesale pricing side that I think the export demand in total will probably start to increase for 2014.
And so a combination of containment of potential increases in pounds produced with exports should be fairly favorable for wholesale pricing increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And then my follow-up is related to pork but it has implications for other proteins.
And certainly Donnie you talked about the picture and the outlook for chicken and I certainly agree with you on the demand side.
My only worry would be on supplies potentially building greater than expected.
But back to the demand side we've noticed some recent featuring of Pork items at QSR.
And a lot of times the featuring tends to be temporary.
Do you worry at all that this recent activity shows some consumer fatigue surrounding all the chicken featuring that's been done? Or how do you view the demand dynamics going forward through fiscal '14? I appreciate it.
Sure.
Yes.
Well its great to have a diversified portfolio because we can take advantage of whatever they're featuring.
But here's how we view it: Beef 50s and Beef 90s look like they're going to have another really really strong year.
So if you're a QSR in the last couple of years you've been running chicken promotions it's going to be really hard to comp a chicken promotion with a beef promotion.
So -- and that's more likely than not that would dominate the feature activity.
So the great thing about chicken is it carries a lot of flavors shapes and forms and I don't see any fatigue at all at QSR for chicken.
So here's kind of the way we think about it: So beef and pork prices ought to be pretty high beef prices particularly which sets up a pretty good halo in chicken relatively speaking is a very good value when compared to those high beef prices.
So we continue to think you'll see a demand shift.
In some of the numbers that we talked about you got chicken pounds up 2% on 7% increase in pricing year-over-year.
And what we saw was the beef pounds kind of struggled a little bit as they reached some pricing elasticity.
Now the key thing about us in the beef and pork deal has been around where the animals are.
And we're very well positioned from a supply base around a lot of the feedlots -- that are high-volume high-capacity feedlots.
So we like the way our Beef business is set up this year.
We view it a lot like we did last year.
Did that help? Research Division</strong> Very much so.
Next question is from Farha Aslam of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Jim congratulations on a very very successful career.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> And my first question is on Chicken Donnie you had mentioned that you're really managing Tyson's U.S.
business for earnings consistency as well as growth.
Could you just highlight how Tyson approaches Chicken that will -- might help the company manage through the ups and downs of the commodity volatility better than possibly the rest of the industry? Sure Farha thanks.
A couple of principles that are really important to us is maintaining a manageable minimum of inventory and then the second thing is we never want to get long chicken.
We all -- we don't want an excess supply.
So our buy versus grow strategy plays into part there.
As we look back a couple of years ago it seemed apparent to us that we needed to use our pricing structure as well as a way to manage the commodity volatility.
Though when you think about our business we're probably not going to hit the highs during the summer high peaks in the commodity markets.
We're certainly not going to hit the lows during the wintertime dips in the commodity markets.
And we're going to have a more consistent profile because our pricing profiles are a bit different.
In the last couple of years we've moved about half of our pricing contracts to adjust to either the grain costs or the parts markets.
And what that would allow us to do is protect our dollar margins and give us a more stable return in up or down grain markets.
That's really our focus is to present to our shareholders a stable return I'm going to say almost regardless of what the commodity markets are doing.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on Beef there's considerable concern right now about the tight supply of cattle and notably commodity beef margins just registering negative.
Does that mean Tyson's Beef division is running red right now? Or is there programs that you have that can help you outperform that commodity average? Well let me answer that by saying we are not red right now.
They've compressed.
But as I said in my remarks and before we put a tremendous amount of focus on really the -- beating the revenue components through mix through pricing through yield through a variety of other product management.
And then we know one thing the market won't let us buy cattle any cheaper than the market.
So we put all our focus on driving revenue and staying in position.
We really kind of watch very carefully what the forward demand for cattle -- or excuse me what the forward supply for cattle availability are and we keep our product sales in reasonably good alignment with that so that we can manage margins by plant as best we can.
And again all our focus has always been on the execution components within our control.
So that's really kind of the play.
If you look forward I think '14 will be very similar to '13 but with a gradual decline in some periods where the supply is very adequate and some periods where the supply is a little bit more challenging.
And that's the essence of margin management to really see what's out in front of you and make your adjustments accordingly.
Next question is Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Jim.
Hopefully you're still going to be teaching some classes that maybe someday we can join.
But congratulations on a great career.
I'm teaching a long time.
I plan on continuing to do so.
So...
Research Division</strong> Great.
Well I wanted to talk a little bit about Chicken if I may.
So in the fourth quarter at one point I don't know if it was last quarter or the quarter before we expected margins to be at that high end.
Can you just talk a little bit about what happened this quarter? I'm having a hard time understanding why margins were down sequentially perhaps it was Mexico and China.
So maybe you can tell us how the U.S.
business did.
Can you just help me understand that? Why were margins down as much as they were sequentially? Yes that was it was Akshay.
It was China and Mexico.
With the commodity markets -- I think what happened is maybe the supply rebounded in Central and Southern Mexico perhaps a little quicker than what others expected and certainly did more than what we expected.
And so we faced some pretty cheap commodity markets down in the Mexico City area.
And that hurt our Mexican numbers too.
We continue to struggle through the rebound in the markets in China.
What happened in the spring there was evidently a lot of chicken that went into the freezer in China.
And that's been coming out.
And it's kept the commodity markets softer than what we thought they would be.
Our volume rebound -- we're probably around maybe back to 80% of our pre-AI volume.
But the markets haven't responded like we thought we would.
And we think that has to do with some excess inventory.
So domestic business is running great.
And you have to remember too that there's a significant -- well I'll say significant there's about an 8 week or so lag in the commodity costs.
And so we still had really really high grain prices into mid-August.
In the last half of August and then September we started taking a little truck grain in which is -- we hedged it up.
It was typically cheaper.
But it was really like the second week of September before we really got into heavy truck grain.
Well by then you're really looking at mid-Q1 of FY '14 for a cost drop.
And so it was really the way the commodity market -- the futures market looked cheap the basis levels looked high but that drop really gets shoved in to Q1 and Q2 of '14 in your Chicken cost structure.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> Okay.
It makes sense.
But -- so can you give us like a -- I think you had said for fiscal '13 you'd get 80% of the $100 million in losses back right? So there was going to be an $80 million improvement if I may in international? So I guess we didn't end up with that number.
The only reason I'm asking is...
You're right Akshay.
We only got $45 million.
And that's part of the -- that and coupled with what happened in Mexico is the money you're looking for in Q4.
Both China and Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So what's the expectation embedded into '14 for international on the same operating income number? Yes we're -- we should get consistently better quarter after quarter but China probably won't reach profitability until our Q4.
But overall it will be profitable for the year slightly [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you said Chicken's off to a good start.
I mean can you help me understand what a good start means for you in terms of operating margin? That would be helpful.
And then I just have a follow-up on supply.
No.
Other than saying we're off to a good start I really can't give you any more help than that Akshay.
We're off to a good start.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on supply you increased your supply estimate for '14 3% to 4% I mean why did you do that? Have you seen something in the pullet placement numbers? Or what's the reason for the higher supply? And why doesn't that impact your margin guidance negatively? Okay.
So head up a little bit.
You're right the pullet supply for '14 it is what it is.
But we think weights.
We're particularly heavy this quarter and we think weights are going to continue to increase next year driven of course by cheaper grain costs.
The reason it's not impacting our results negatively is that we've planned for it.
And our buy versus grow strategy will have us buying cheaper raw materials and then upgrading those into value-added sales.
And that's our model.
The other thing you have to really look at Akshay is Oct Nov Dec period here year-over-year is up and we're talking about fiscal.
So you're starting with this period with a fairly high increase in pounds.
So you've got to get yourself adjusted to the fiscal versus the calendar as well.
And next question is Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jim congrats as well.
I hope this doesn't mean you've gone vegan on us here.
Let me put the probability of that happening it's 0% to negative 100%.
Research Division</strong> Good good.
Well I appreciate your comments on packaged meats and some of the opportunities you have to turn that business around.
But based on your comments from around a year ago maybe a turnaround has taken slightly longer than you initially [Audio Gap] a different set of categories to compete in.
So I guess I'm just curious if the turnaround eventually doesn't work the way you hope what would it take for you to potentially turn to some acquisitions right to get some brands that are maybe more established in some categories call it lunchmeats whatnot in order to kind of solidify and accelerate your growth? I mean Ken Zaslow made a good point I thought you have a lot of cash and you're generating even more cash every year.
So I'm just curious about that sort of make or buy proposition in packaged meats.
Certainly and this is Donnie.
We absolutely have our eye on multiple ways to grow our Prepared Foods business.
With our cash flow it's obvious that acquisitions are within our view.
We did a couple of small acquisitions last year to try to fill in some gaps.
And we obviously have capacity and options now with our great balance sheet to be more aggressive if we need to if there's a right fit.
Dennis and I have done -- have talked a lot over the last couple of years about how we view acquisitions.
We approach them fairly clinically.
We want to make sure that an acquisition can be accretive to our ROIC within a fairly short and reasonable period of time.
We try to target something that can -- if our total ROIC is going to be at 20% or better we want to target an acquisition that can get there within a 2- or 3-year time period that type of thing.
And so that's the math we use whenever we're looking at an acquisition target.
But we're also committed with our current facilities to continue to improve.
I'm extremely confident that the moves we're making particularly in our lunchmeat business will have us very well positioned by say this time next year in our lunchmeat business.
And again our Prepared Foods business is a broad range of categories.
Some of those businesses are doing very very well with great margins and we'll continue to drive those.
They're very important to the customer targets that they focus on.
So we feel really good about our Prepared Foods business.
And if you noticed in our organizational changes we're doubling down.
We've got great talent against our Prepared Foods segment and we're going to put a lot of focus on Prepared Foods going forward.
Jim you want to add anything? Yes.
The only thing I'd add is we -- as I said in my remarks we made a lot of conscious decisions.
And I think some people sometimes underestimate the startup cost and investment in G&amp;A putting the right organizational structures the MAP spend.
They don't accrete earnings right away.
You've got to bet on them going forward.
So that's part of what we saw on the dilution this year and particularly this quarter as we look at multiple categories.
We've got our eye on a lot of things and this area has a lot of potential and we put a lot of manpower and good talent around it.
Ken this is Dennis.
I'd just add that Prepared Foods were it not for all these turnaround expenses and startups it would have generated about a 4.5% return on sales which is as you know within our range.
We think next year we're going to continue to improve the business.
And the real fruits of this labor will come in '15 and beyond as these businesses build out and fill out I think they'll be nicely profitable.
Next question Tim Ramey of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> And let me add my great wishes to Jim.
I just threw open my 1988 initiation on IBP and he was there jumpy fidgety had this demeanor of a commodities trader superbright and nothing's changed really.
So congratulations Jim.
It's been fun to be hanging around you for 25 years.
That could have been due to working for Bob Peterson at the time though.
I'm not sure.
I did have hair in 1988 I think.
Research Division</strong> That's true.
So you made a comment Donnie on profitability in the fourth quarter by -- in China fourth quarter of '14.
But I mean you featured China kind of right up there in your first paragraph.
And so I'd love to have you kind of dream a little bit more publicly about what that might look like in '15 and '16 just to kind of re-satiate our appetites on the outlook on that one.
So the tough thing about FY '13 was the financial impact on our business.
We were -- about half of our production is in company-owned -- or company-controlled birds now.
And our cost structure in those houses is really effective.
So we can't get our land-use rights and can't get these farms built fast enough for our taste.
And we're doing pretty good.
Our initial plan if you go back maybe 2 2.5 years ago was to be completely built out by FY '14 by the end of FY '14.
We're probably going to miss that by a few weeks.
But still the vast preponderance of our chickens will be in company-controlled housing.
So I guess it's a cost advantage and the uses of marketing advantage.
The thing we have seen is the importance of the supply chain that we're developing.
And what we've seen in '13 although it's not been great for us financially it has validated our business model.
So we think having a supply chain that is from pullet to plate is very consistent with a lot of cost controls and a lot of bio-security controls is going to be very good for us in '15 and beyond.
So what we would see is going into '15 we'd have an advantaged cost structure we'd have a very unique and very differentiated selling story.
And I tell you I think we've got a great opportunity.
Yes we deal with foodservice QSRs and that kind of thing but we have a great retail offering in China as well.
And we've got the ability to take the Tyson brand across more areas of China and to expand that geographically and have a really strong branded presence.
Because as you well know Tyson Foods has meant trusted food and great quality for years and years in America.
We want to bring that as well to China.
So we're very optimistic about what happens in '16 and beyond and really looking forward to getting there.
Research Division</strong> And just to kind of restate the focus on food safety and bringing it all in-house leads you to believe that pricing will be such that you can charge premium prices as well as get your cost under control.
I think you originally said that it could have twice the margins of the domestic business.
Is that still kind of roughly your thought process? Absolutely in a mature complex.
We intend to grow China pretty aggressively.
And so we may have 2 mature complexes that are at those levels of margins and then we may have an immature complex or partnership or that kind of thing that's still coming onstream that would be in the mix as well.
But when these complexes get full just like there's U.S.
complex today we're still confident that they'll carry a very aggressive margin structure about twice of what we see here.
Next question is Michael Piken of Cleveland Research.
Congratulations Jim on your retirement.
Just wanted to make sure that -- on that Beef side a couple of quick questions.
You guys have talked about a 2% to 3% decline in fed cattle supplies.
And if we look at USDA's numbers which are more on a pounds basis they're kind of suggesting beef production for calendar '14 will be down more like 6%.
Was that 2% to 3% more for the cattle supplies in your area? Or is that sort of an industry-wide outlook? And then secondarily if production is really down about 6% do you think that the industry as a whole might need to take down another packing plant? Let me -- I saw the USDA pounds estimate you have to factor in the probability of beef cattle slaughter being down appreciably.
We're thinking more in the fed steer and heifer was what we referenced because we don't participate in the other category on the process side so we don't process cows.
And I'm just really basing that off of looking at the prior year calf crops on '11 '12 and '13.
And being in that 2% last year in our fiscal year '13 versus '12 we were down 1.5%.
So we're thinking that trajectory is down.
If heifer retention starts to accelerate which it hasn't shown signs of yet that number changes.
If heifer retention doesn't happen that number could actually lessen.
So we're just really basing everything always off the calf crop going forward.
And to answer your question yes as supply is based on the beef cow and the dairy cow herd and the calf crop going forward yes we'll still have overcapacity.
There is probably some peripheral plants outside the feeding zones that will struggle.
Again our plant's set right where the bulk of cattle feeding occurs.
And so we're fairly comfortable and we pay very close attention always to the forward supplies and try to keep ourselves in very good balance.
Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up on that I know you had mentioned earlier in Farha's question that you guys are profitable kind of right now and this is typically this quarter and into your second fiscal quarter the weaker time for beef.
I mean if you guys are sort of profitable now when the industry margins are lower like I guess could you explain sort of why you think your margins could potentially be below your normalized range? Currently now we expect -- we're -- like Q2 normally would be the tougher quarter.
We are fairly pleased as we look back at '13.
And we sat here a year ago during the Oct Nov Dec period and then went into the Jan Feb March period and we felt like we were struggling.
But we came back strong in our last 2 quarters and I expect pretty much a repeat of that.
If we continue our emphasis on controllables which I'm very pleased that the team there is extremely focused on those it could be better than that.
But we're factoring in some periods that we think that the cattle will be a little bit tighter and the industry margins as a whole could compress.
But we certainly think there's times that they can expand.
So that's why really we said we think '14 will be very similar with the similar challenges that we had in '13.
That's the way we look at it.
Next question is from Tim Tiberio of Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I want to add my best wishes to you.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just 2 very quick questions on your outlook for 2014.
Do you feel that the country of origin labeling that the supply chain has fairly well adjusted to that event? And are the potential for higher costs reflected in your outlook for the Prepared Foods segment in 2014? Let me address country of origin labeling.
Yes we factored that in.
And maybe that will change.
There's still an opportunity for the farm bill or adjustments to take care of that.
If it doesn't we fully adjust.
And we're in compliance today.
We made the adjustments we need to.
And looking forward on this -- on the long-range supply activity to accommodate that.
And then I'm not following your second question.
Was that jumping into the Prepared Foods segment or related to cattle or beef? LLC Research Division</strong> Well I guess cattle and beef and whether you think that you've got a good handle on the cost structure.
Obviously you're bringing in more feeder cattle from Canada to the U.S.
So just wanted to get a sense if you feel like the supply chain is prepared for that impact? And it sounds like that is the case.
Yes.
Totally definitely and we did announce that we would curtail at least for a while any direct importation of Canadian cattle.
And we can always reevaluate that and adjust our SKU count accordingly.
But in the interim we're going to try to simplify the product mix out there.
But as a whole I'd say that the adjustment has happened.
And we'll just have to see and that does take some supply potentially out of the U.S.
beef.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just secondly on the international outlook does your outlook include the potential for increased supply in Brazil as soy milk prices come down? There's obviously the potential for production in that country to grow.
They are obviously a large competitor in the export markets.
Just want to get your thoughts with regards to Brazil.
As beef -- yes as Brazil imports -- excuse me exports more beef to more countries and has an increase of supply that puts a little more pressure on the manufacturing meat.
It might indirectly work where we see more 90 or imported lean beef coming into the U.S.
that could potentially offset some of the cow slaughter reduction that's there.
So those are always balances that you're walking -- watching very carefully simply because they do impact raw material costs they impact the pounds and they impact the utilization of particularly manufacturing beef.
And that's why it is a global market.
U.S.
beef and Brazilian beef don't necessarily compete in like markets for like causes and uses but they are all in that balance.
So thank you.
And by the way on the Chicken side very much intend to grow our business in Brazil not just in terms of the number of heads processed but also in our value-added offerings so very much a growth vehicle there.
And our last question comes from Rachel Nabatian of Crdit Suisse.
First off I just wanted to say congratulations to Jim.
Now your Beef results came in a little better than we were expecting.
So I was just wondering if you got a short-term benefit on cattle bidding from the USDA shutdown.
And this is particularly when the outlook and the conditions were weak.
And then I also wanted to know if the LFTB issues have those turned back into a positive? And are you now monetizing LFTB again? Let me start with -- no we did not have any benefit.
We just used alternative pricing mechanisms.
We gave both buyers and sellers alternatives.
If they didn't want to use the alternative formulas non-USDA reported markets skilled [ph] negotiated did that on beef and pork as well; did create some disruption for a period of time but both buyers and sellers all did adapt and we used traditional or old market reports or negotiated.
So had no -- really no impact from that.
Lean finely textured beef now the volume is still not utilized anywhere close to the same percentage.
And quite clearly going forward we and others will clearly label its presence in ground beef.
So that that issue cannot be attacked again.
So that's kind of the play on that.
Really again -- in the margin scheme that's also probably neutralized itself now probably it has neutralized itself and we're not seeing any impact one way or the other from it at this stage.
Well before we go I want to thank our team members for all you've done to make 2013 such a great year.
And I also like to thank our investors for your continued support of Tyson Foods.
Hope you'll have a happy Thanksgiving.
And hey eat some chicken beef and pork instead of turkey this year would you? Thanks everybody.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Tyson quarterly investor earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I'll turn the call over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods conference call for the first quarter of the 2014 fiscal year.
On today's call is Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; Dennis Leatherby Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Lochner Chief Operating Officer.
I need to remind you our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read today's press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.[Operator Instructions] As you are probably aware our Annual Meeting of Shareholders is this morning and we will need to stay on schedule.
I hope we get to all of your questions but we'll have to put a hard stop on this call to get over to the shareholders' meeting on time.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Fiscal '14 is off to a strong start with earnings of $0.72 a share in the first quarter which is a 47% improvement over Q1 of last year.
Operating income grew 36% quarter-over-quarter and our overall operating margin was 4.7%.
Sales were $8.8 billion the highest Q1 sales we've ever reported up 4.7% over Q1 of FY '13.
Chicken Beef and Prepared Foods all had record Q1 sales and Pork had its second-largest Q1 sales.
I'm really pleased with those results but I'm even more pleased with what I'm seeing from the team to manage for the long term and invest in future growth.
As an example last week we acquired Bosco's in Michigan which was our third Prepared Foods acquisition in less than 1 year and another step in our effort to grow sales in our Prepared Foods segment.
Bosco's is a great fit with our pizza toppings and crusts and it aligns nicely with our K-12 school foodservice business.
We have to look at a variety of options and avenues for growth.
It goes back to being nimble and responsive to consumers and their changing needs.
One of the first places consumers adjust their spending is on food purchases not just what they buy but where they buy it.
As you know our business model is to offer a broad portfolio of products spread over multiple distribution channels so we're able to shift with the consumer and give them what they want where they want it.
Consumers today are expanding their food purchases beyond the traditional foodservice and retail channels creating opportunities for us in dollar convenience drugstores and even online.
In spite of historical high prices Nielsen data for the 52-week period ended December 28 indicates that total fresh meat volume at retail was up 1.3%.
Pork chicken and ground beef pounds-sold increased while whole-muscle beef held steady.
Fresh chicken was the leader with dollar sales up 8% versus the previous year.
And once again Tyson was the #1 brand of fresh chicken in the country.
Record high beef prices should continue through 2014 meaning fewer beef promotions in retail and foodservice.
Pork prices will also remain high due to lower supply.
Chicken should continue to be the winner.
As consumer confidence rebounds people are becoming less defensive in their spending but I don't know of anyone who thinks that consumers will go back to their pre-2008 spending habits anytime soon.
Expectations are different.
The definition of value is different and it isn't limited to price.
The consumer is asking what am I getting for my dollar? What are the ingredients? Is it fresh? Is it good for me? All those factors are part of the consumer's new value equation.
They're willing to pay for convenience but the product must legitimately fill an unmet need or solve a problem in a unique way.
Our insights-driven approach to new product development is focused on those unmet needs.
Better For You foods are becoming mainstream.
People want clean labels and transparency in ingredients.
They want to know where their food comes from and that we're being responsible in how we produce it.
They're uncompromising about food safety and rightly so.
But they also want only a few ingredients on the label.
So that's our challenge and an area of focus for our R&amp;D and innovation.
Another challenge is the cut to the government's Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program.
This could reduce total food sales growth by 1%.
Shopper card data shows that SNAP shoppers' spending has dropped 4 points more than other shoppers since their benefits were cut.
We're developing consumer insights into those shoppers to retain them as consumers even though they have less money to spend.
So that's how we're thinking about the market dynamics domestically.
And now let's turn to our international business.
It was a disappointing quarter with a $28 million loss.
While China certainly wasn't the only source of the negative returns it was the largest and we've been making significant investments to build a fully integrated poultry business.
I said on our Q4 call that I thought our China operations would reach breakeven by the end of the fiscal year.
But I don't think -- I think it will take longer.
There's been a change in the market dynamics in China over the past year following widespread food safety concerns an avian influenza outbreak and economic slowdown.
Previously I told you that demand would return about 3 months after the initial AI problem was over but I was wrong.
Demand hasn't recovered which has led to a substantial oversupply of chicken.
And now there are new concerns about avian influenza.
Because of these factors we've decided to slow down on building more chicken farms beyond those currently planned for this fiscal year until market conditions improve.
Now I want to be clear we're not changing our path just our pace.
We are not backing off our long-term commitment to produce quality chicken from a controlled supply in China.
We're simply slowing down until the supply-and-demand dynamics get back in balance in order to protect our margins.
We'll move forward with our planning processes and when the markets improve we'll be able to resume construction of company-owned chicken housing.
I think one of the characteristics that makes Tyson Foods a great company is our ability to be flexible and to reassess and that's what we're doing to grow our business and optimize shareholder returns.
I remain confident about 2014.
I think it's going to be another great year for us.
There's still a certain amount of seasonality to our business and Q2 is typically our softest quarter and the hardest to predict.
It was last year and it certainly appears that this quarter won't be an exception.
We still feel confident that the back half of our year will be strong and that this will be a very good year for us.
Overall we've got a lot of momentum and we're anticipating healthy growth this year next year and beyond.
We feel really good about where we are as a company.
There are always challenges in this business but we don't see anything on the horizon that we can't overcome.
And now I'll hand it off to Dennis for the financial update and then Jim will talk about the segments.
Thank you Donnie and good morning everyone.
As Donnie mentioned this morning we reported first quarter earnings from continuing operations of $0.72 per share.
This represents a 47% increase over the $0.49 we reported a year ago.
I would also like to note that on an adjusted basis our rolling 4-quarter continuing EPS is $2.49 as compared to $2.26 for fiscal '13.
Pretax return on invested capital for the past 12 months was just under 20%.
Operating cash flow was strong in the first quarter at $361 million.
Capital expenditures were $140 million for the quarter as we continue to invest in projects for both our domestic and foreign operations that result in improved productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix.
During the first quarter we acquired 4.6 million shares for $150 million under our share repurchase program.
Since May 2011 we have repurchased 47.9 million shares for $1.1 billion.
I'm also pleased to announce yesterday our Board of Directors increased the authorized shares under this program by 25 million and we now have 34.6 million shares available for repurchase.
Our effective tax rate for continuing operations in Q1 was 34.3%.
Net debt to EBITDA for the last 12 months was 0.6x and on a gross-debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 1x.
Including cash of $825 million net debt was $1.1 billion.
Total liquidity was $1.8 billion remaining well above the targeted range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
Gross debt was nearly -- was down nearly $0.5 billion from Q4 '13 coming in at $1.9 billion.
As we reported in the last call we paid off our $458 million convertible notes in October with cash on hand.
Additionally we issued 12 million shares at maturity for the conversion feature.
And at the same time we received 12 million shares under our bond hedge.
This had the impact of finally canceling out the negative dilution impact we have been experiencing the last few years associated with convertible notes.
However we still have warrants outstanding related to this transaction that we'll exercise from January through April which are already included in our diluted share count.
For the quarter our diluted shares outstanding were 354 million which included dilution from warrants of 8 million shares and stock options of 5 million shares.
Now here are some thoughts on the remainder of fiscal '14.
We expect revenues of approximately $36 billion for fiscal '14 up 5% over fiscal '13.
Net interest expense should be about $100 million down $37 million from fiscal '13.
The effective tax rate for continuing operations should be around 35.5%.
And our CapEx plan remains at $700 million up $140 million from fiscal '13 and $180 million greater than our depreciation and amortization expense.
Based on our average share price in Q1 we expect our diluted shares in Q2 to remain around 354 million prior to considering any changes in our stock price which would impact the dilution from warrants and stock options.
This also does not reflect the impact of any additional stock buybacks.
Our priorities for excess cash remain the same which include additional capital spending to improve and grow our existing businesses acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products in our international footprint and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while ensuring we maintain plenty of liquidity at our disposal.
As Donnie mentioned earlier we have a lot of momentum going and we feel great about where we are as a company.
Fiscal '14 is off to a fabulous start with a 47% EPS improvement over prior year in Q1.
And Q2 while softer and seasonally more challenging should beat last year and the third and fourth quarter should be really strong.
Although we don't normally provide guidance the last couple of quarters we referenced the back half of fiscal '13 times 2 which implied about $2.78 earnings per share for fiscal '14.
While it is still early in the year we are confident we can deliver at least that number which would be in excess of 23% EPS growth for the year and we are poised for at least 10% EPS growth in 2015 and beyond.
I'll now turn it over to Jim for a closer look into our operating segments.
Thank you Dennis and good morning.
Starting with the Pork segment in the first quarter we reported $121 million in operating income and an 8.5% return on sales.
Volume decreased 2.1% compared to Q1 '13.
The available supplies of hogs were lower year-over-year and we adjusted our weekly volumes accordingly.
Sales prices are up 6.7% due to mix changes and price increases associated with the lower total pork supplies.
This helped to offset the lower U.S.
total exports.
We're now 1/3 of the way into our second fiscal quarter and we're about where we thought we'd be meaning we're performing well and on track managing revenue drivers such as mix yields and pricing.
This fiscal year we expect the PED virus to impact domestic hog supplies by 2% to 4%.
In our plant locations we'll see the effects in the summer months.
Heavier weights will offset some of the headcount reductions but we do expect to see wholesale price increases.
We do not anticipate any issues running our plants.
In the Chicken segment we generated a record $225 million in operating income with 7.5% return on sales for the first quarter.
Excluding international losses Chicken margins were 9.5%.
Volume was up 3.6% compared to the first quarter of fiscal '13 due to increased international production outside buy and rendered product sales.
In aggregate pricing was down 1.4% year-over-year predominantly from export sales rendered products and international operations.
Q2 is off to a good start but this is typically our most challenging quarter.
Looking further out Chicken supplies for the last 3 quarters of our fiscal year are projected to increase around 2% over last year reflecting the production cuts in 2013.
We will continue our buy versus grow strategy in Chicken to make opportunistic open market purchases and value-up those sales.
Currently we project lower feed cost for the fiscal year to be around $600 million.
As we discussed in previous calls less than 10% of our contracts are annual fixed price and our focus is on helping our customers drive their businesses and generate category growth.
So our pricing conversations lean more toward what our portfolio of products are worth to the customer and to the consumer.
Turning to the Beef segment.
In Q1 we generated $58 million in operating income and a 1.6% return on sales.
Volume was up 4.1% over Q1 '13.
Price was up 2.9% reflecting higher beef wholesale cut pricing from reduced supplies and stronger overall exports.
So far in Q2 we've seen historically high wholesale beef prices and the cutout has set records each week.
Low production volumes relative to demand particularly in ground beef trim and the chuck and round cuts have driven the rapid rise in the overall cutout and Beef revenue.
As a result consumers will see higher retail beef prices.
And as Donnie mentioned we'll likely see fewer beef features at retail and foodservice this summer.
We expect to have adequate supplies for our Beef operations as our plants are located close to the fed cattle supplies.
In the Prepared Foods segment operating income for the first quarter was $16 million with a 1.8% return on sales.
Sales volume increased 3.5% versus the same quarter last year due to an improved demand and the additional volume associated with the Don Julio and Circle Foods acquisitions.
Sales prices were up 4.2% as a result of mix improvements and price increases associated with higher input costs.
Pricing gains however were not sufficient to fully offset increased inputs and additional cost associated with the investment in our lunchmeat business and the other Prepared Foods growth platforms in the quarter.
In our Q4 earnings call we talked about a couple of those growth opportunities including Tyson DAY STARTS in the Frozen Breakfast category and Wright Brand Breakfast Sausage.
And although they started shipping only a few weeks ago we're already pleased with the customer acceptance and the volumes for both product lines.
We'll continue to put MAP spending behind them and other Prepared Foods as we look for growth in the long term from this segment.
In closing I'd like to say thank you to our team members for their commitment to continuous improvement.
Tyson Foods has made tremendous strides in recent years and I still see a lot of runway ahead.
As we announced in November I've begun transitioning into retirement.
And as a result this will be my last earnings call.
It's been a great experience getting to interact with investors and analysts over the years.
And I've appreciated your willingness to learn about our business.
That's the end of our prepared remarks.
Shirley we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Brett Hundley with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Donnie I just have a question for you.
I'd love for you to give some just further overall color on the balance of fiscal '14 and then the outlook into fiscal '15.
I think you made some -- or you guys made some interesting comments on both years.
And Donnie I think one of the things that has really helped to kind of re-rate your stock and support your stock is you guys coming out on the last call and on this call and reiterating segment guidance in the face of a number of challenges.
And certainly there's a lot of factors impacting you guys PED tight cattle supplies cold weather propane issues oncoming chicken supply now we have a resurgent bird flu in China and your slowdown there.
And so I'm just kind of wondering how all of these plays out and affects earnings potential going forward particularly as you guys mentioned at least 10% earnings growth in 2015.
Sure Brett.
So let me start with kind of reiterating what Dennis said in his comments.
We're off to a very solid start in this year great Q1.
Our Q2 is typically softer and it's certainly harder to predict.
But it looks like to us that the back half of the year ought to be really strong.
And so we're going to have a really good year and take a lot of momentum by the way into FY '15.
So from where we sit today we're confident in our ability to deliver at least that $2.78 or so.
So let me talk about each segment just a little bit.
Obviously the Chicken segment is off to a strong start.
We're headed into a lower cost environment with a little higher supply 2% to 3%.
But we're also going to see I think a halo effect from high-priced beef and pork.
So it feels like to me that the Chicken segment is just going to have a really super year.
Most of the issues in international for the year are behind us and we'll be getting continually better there and taking more positive momentum into FY '15 there.
Beef and Pork looked to be very similar to last year.
So be thinking of that equal too.
And if either one maybe a little better.
In Prepared Foods obviously we're investing in our growth platforms and it looks like that we're going to be about like where we were 1 year ago and could possibly do better there as well.
So feel good there.
When you look at the overall balance sheet debt's low we're at a point -- our net debt is 0.6x EBITDA.
So we've got a lot of dry powder we're going to throw off a lot of cash this year.
Plenty to do the CapEx we need to do we'll be well above depreciation and amortization again this year.
So we've got opportunity for more value-added acquisitions that fit.
And we'll continue to return cash to shareholders.
So if you take the new acquisitions that we've made in Prepared Foods they'll start contributing in -- well they're contributing now and good opportunities for growth in those businesses and they'll be contributing in FY '15 and beyond.
Like I said we're taking our foot off the gas a little bit in China but we're still on the road.
And when the market dynamics give us an opportunity we'll certainly continue to press forward there and we'll gain more momentum in our international business in '15.
So feels real solid we've got a great future.
Obviously with that laundry list of stuff you mentioned we always have challenges to our business but we really don't see anything that we're not going to be able to overcome now.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's very helpful.
And then I just have a follow-up on Chicken.
You guys did very well during the quarter.
And I would expect given your business make-up there for you guys to continue to do well.
I just wanted to ask you about this polar vortex that's gripping the nation in predominantly the Midwest and Southeast.
And as it relates to your Chicken business a do you guys hedge forward on natural gas? And then b if your growers are having -- and of course that natural gas is at the plant level.
But b if your growers are having issues with propane would the company step in or be able to step in and would that affect margins at all? Yes great question.
We stay fairly close in natural gas.
We might have natural gas purchased a couple of months out in front of us that kind of thing.
So as we do in grain we take a fairly conservative but sensible approach to how we manage our commodity purchases.
On the propane issue for the growers I'll tell you we have a great team of people that came together and we've actually been buying propane down in Houston and transporting it into the areas where our growers had need.
So I'm not aware of any grower that's growing for Tyson Foods that doesn't have the propane they need to be able to take care of those chickens.
And I'd tell you it's just been a heroic effort by a large group of people.
I'm really proud of them for jumping in there and frankly coming to the rescue for some of our growers.
And yes we will be making some adjustments in our grower pay to make sure that we take care of our growers during all of this.
So we've got a great live production team.
And by the way we have great growers.
And so they've worked together to make sure that we've mitigated the risk of this to our business.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in PEDv right now? I assume it's not very constructive since you just took your expectation down for hog availability so dramatically.
And also you did take your estimate for chicken supply for the industry down this year as well.
If I'm not mistaken it was 3% or 4% last quarter now it's officially 3% and on the call you're talking a little more like 2%.
Can you just add a little color what you're seeing there to maybe drive that decline in your forecast? Sure.
Jim you take that one.
Yes.
When I referenced that Chicken supply as I said the last 3 quarters annualized would be the same.
And I just took the first quarter which was behind us.
So I said going forward all the analysts I looked at and the data we looked at implies around 2% for the last 3 quarters.
And now referencing the PED that's a very fluid situation.
It seems like either at least weekly but sometimes even daily new evidence comes out.
And we do expect that it might be influencing up to 30% of the sow herd with 10% or so impact on the available pigs impacted.
So there is where the 3% comes from.
Now if that increases to 40% or decreases because a lot of that data is still flowing in that will have some influence.
So that offset -- that would offset any of the productivity gains of the balance let's say it is 30% the 70% would have some productivity gains and we probably are likely to see some increase in carcass weight to offset at least some of the pounds lost from the head loss.
But I do want to emphasize information does come out fairly regularly and it's being assimilated.
And we're just staying very on top of it region to region producer to producer.
Research Division</strong> Best guess Jim is PED better in terms of less spread or worse than what most media reports have come out with? I'm not sure -- is it spread to a greater degree or lesser degree? Research Division</strong> Yes I didn't ask that very deftly.
But is it -- I guess is it spread to a greater degree or a less degree -- lesser degree than what most people think? I don't know what most people think.
So I'm hearing it's spreading in states and what we're really tracking is: how many sows are impacted when.
Because it impacts the baby pig mortality.
So then 5 to 6 months out there would be fewer pigs available.
So that's how we're tracking it.
But some people believe it's -- well it has spread into more states.
So it's the extent in the number of sows impacted that we're really monitoring.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> National Beef announced the closure of the Brawley California plant this morning.
How do you anticipate that impacts service supply-demand in the beef market? And will that impact or benefit Tyson's facilities in particular? Well we just found that out this morning and we're familiar with their daily head capacity.
That plant's in California and there's generally a feedlot supply around.
So it will take daily capacity out.
Our best guess is around 2 000 head per day.
So that obviously means those cattle will have to be marketed somewhere else so they'll flow I guess east and potentially north to different packers.
And it is consistent I guess with what we've been saying all along as the calf crop declines and the noncompetitive feedlot areas or noncompetitive plants or the combination thereof we'll probably have to curtail production.
So we were a bit surprised to see it this morning.
But I guess to some extent we've always felt that -- and anticipated something like that would happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up on Prepared Foods.
You've done 3 sort of tack-on acquisitions in that space.
Could you just share with us combined what the sales of those 3 acquisitions are and kind of your vision for Prepared Foods longer term into 2015? Because clearly you're taking hits in terms of the plant et cetera.
What's the potential and outlook in 2015 for that division? So no particular specifics on the 3 acquisitions.
But our Prepared Foods business is really a broad mix of different types of businesses that are frankly at different stages of maturity.
We've got some businesses that are mature and have -- generate great results and then we've got some that we're building and we talked about lunchmeat before and continuing to fix that business.
And we're investing a lot in those businesses as Jim referenced a couple of new product rollouts.
And Farha if we just -- I don't want to get too specific here but if we took off the MAP spending that -- which we won't but if we just kind of adjusted back the MAP spending our Prepared Foods segment would be above 4%.
So we're spending a lot we're investing a lot in this business.
I view Prepared Foods a lot like where we were in Chicken 4 5 years ago where we just had to -- getting the basics and build a strong foundation under that business.
And you can see kind of the results 2 3 4 years later about doing all of that work.
We're working on our footprint.
So anyway if you just look forward into our vision in Prepared Foods continue to think about a broad portfolio of items that meet changing consumer requirements.
We've got very broad capabilities.
We've got access to raw materials.
Obviously we've got a great sound capital structure and the ability to invest in those businesses and we'll continue to do that.
And you should expect to see strong growth in Prepared Foods.
Research Division</strong> In 2015? Right.
I mean and again think of this year at least equal to last year maybe a tad better.
But as we go forward that segment should continue to improve as we see the benefit from the investments that we're making today.
The next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
This is Rachel Nabatian in for Rob.
So I just wanted to get an update on the annual negotiations with foodservice customers that you recently had and pricing.
With the benefit of lower grain at $600 million now do you think that you would be able to maybe hang on to half of that benefit in pricing and then pass the rest of it onto your customers? So very pleased with how let's call it contracting season went.
Our customers recognize that we grow their categories and we grow their businesses and we spur their demand.
So we're being recognized for the quality and the service and the insights-driven innovation.
And as Jim mentioned in his comments that keeps our conversations with customers much more focused on what our products and our offering and our service to their business is worth than rather just what it costs.
Again let me remind you our fixed annual price exposure is less than 10%.
Now getting to the how much of the grain question we'll hang on to.
I don't want to answer that specifically but let me answer it this way.
Remember that we've talked about our pricing profile as today is much more reflective of the inputs and we've made that change over the last 2 3 years.
Over half of our pricing contracts today either adjust for grain cost or market value.
So that helps us protect our dollar margins and gives us a lot more stability in up or down grain markets.
Remember chicken is still the best valued protein relative to all the other competing proteins.
I guess third thing is again our quality our service our innovative capabilities make us a go-to supplier for our customers and we're getting paid for the value that we add to their business.
Again we mentioned this too our buy versus grow strategy we continue to keep our supply short of demand and we'll capitalize on buying less expensive raw materials as we continue to supply more breast meat per capita.
So we'll continue to buy those cheaper raw materials.
And then the last thing I'd say is we're going to continue to grow our value-added mix and of course that provides us some protection from the underlying commodity markets.
So if you tie all those things together that gives us a great opportunity to hold on if you want to call it that to the grain benefit.
Our next question comes from Michael Piken with Cleveland Research.
Just wanted to circle back on a couple of things.
With respect to your outlook for exports in the upcoming year if you could kind of break it down sort of protein by protein what your expectations are for the U.S.
exports for beef chicken and pork? Let me start with beef I think we'll continue to see an increase probably not at the same rate that we saw last year because Japan's entrance and expanded to 30 months and down certainly was a boost.
But again we continue -- we think we'll see U.S.
beef exports continue to grow probably in that 2% to 3% and that's aligned with most people's expectations.
Pork this year is down '13 versus '12 it was down about let's see I think around 7% or 8%.
But I don't think we'll see that same decline this year.
In fact I'm one who thinks it will probably increase.
Although I can tell you there's a big divergence of opinions on most analysts to what they think pork exports are going to do this year.
And then chicken exports I consider -- I expect it will continue to grow at the 2% to 3% year-over-year.
So -- and overall again domestic availability of protein's probably going to come down which should be supportive of the wholesale pricing as a whole.
Obviously we'll see less beef right now the way PED is going to impact pork we should see less pork than anticipated.
Prior to that most people were thinking it would be up.
But I think that will be down.
And then if chicken exports continued to improve and we don't think -- and we think we're beyond the year-over-year major increase so again I think we're going to see very supportive prices for all the wholesale meat cuts and poultry cuts this year.
Okay great.
And just as a follow-up on the Chicken side if you can break it down a little bit more in terms of which markets you see growing.
Because obviously last year we the Mexico AI outbreak in the second quarter.
Just if you could sort of break it out market by market and kind of is it your belief that commodity like order [ph] prices could start to rebound off of the declines we saw in the first quarter? Actually we'd say that there won't be any market that's probably going to go down.
We don't see any softness in Mexico we see Russia having to come back in Angola Canada et cetera.
We don't really see any market that's acutely going to go down.
In fact some of them we don't see where that supply is going to come from.
So that's where the modest increase.
And I think potentially it could be stronger than what I just said.
But really we don't see any country at this point as a threat.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is on Chicken.
And Donnie you mentioned it's shaping up to be a good year and thanks for breaking out the U.S.
margin.
So my question is really how good can it get? The way I'm thinking about it so help me if I'm thinking about it correctly your cost came down sequentially it seems like $0.07 or $0.08 a pound.
I would expect those to be sort of stable sequentially for the rest of the year unless grain prices change.
And I would expect revenue per pound to continue to increase as the fiscal year progresses.
So I would think that your U.S.
margin at 9.5% is biased upward sequentially unless I'm thinking about that incorrectly.
And then you mentioned on the international side things should continue to get better.
So am I thinking about that generally correctly where your margins should improve from where we've seen them in 1Q? I think you're a tad strong on your revenue growth for the balance of the year.
We don't see it -- I guess the right way to put it we don't see it deteriorating markedly.
But I think continued growth in price per pound through the rest of the year is probably a little bit unrealistic.
But still hey don't let that mean that we don't think this is going to be a really great year in Chicken.
And I think you're right on our international business it will -- the worst seems to be behind us and it's getting better.
And it will continue to improve some through the year.
Research Division</strong> So the price per pound my comment was sequentially.
Did you mean that sequentially as well or you meant year-over-year? Got it.
Yes yes yes.
Yes sequentially it will be better.
Yes.
I thought you meant from Q1 getting better into Q2 getting better into Q3 getting better into Q4.
So yes but sequentially yes you're correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up would be on the comment you made about 2Q being the most unpredictable.
I would think that relates more to Pork and Beef and less so to Chicken.
It just seem -- can you give us a little bit more on what you meant by that? Should it be higher or lower than $0.70? And what were you really trying to indicate by the comment on 2Q being a little bit difficult to anticipate? Well so I'm not going to give quarterly guidance.
We struggle enough an annual.
But our Q2 is not generally as strong as our Q1 I started -- that's what we mean by that.
And in our Beef and Pork markets coming out of the holidays there's just typically a bit more volatility.
It's a little harder to predict how things are going to turn out than when you get into high-demand seasons post-Memorial Day right? So it's just a difficult quarter.
I guess it's a more difficult quarter to predict.
But I'd say our guys are on top of it.
They're doing a great job managing our supply they're doing a great job on our pricing.
I feel really good about where we are.
I didn't mean to over-imply anything scary about our Q2 comments it's just Q2 is generally a little softer than Q1 and it will be this year and it's a little harder to predict.
So -- but still going to have a great back half of the year and this will be a good year for us.
Jim do you want to add anything about Beef and Pork? Beef is -- the Jan Feb March period is always very difficult.
And this year's really extreme with record cutouts and they topped out at a choice cutout of 240.
But in 2 weeks they gave $10 of it back up.
So it tends to be extremely volatile.
And I feel really good about how we're navigating through this January period particularly in Beef and Pork.
So -- but the general statement is historically this is usually our most challenging quarter and typically less than Q1 and Q3.
But I personally have a lot of optimism 4 weeks into it.
The next question comes from Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a very brief question around some of the trends that we're seeing on the natural organic side.
We've been seeing some of the national foodservice companies talking about sourcing more non-GMO ingredients.
I know that you've launched a line in the last 2 years.
But looking forward I wanted to get a sense of whether you think that your current investment level is sufficient there? Or whether this is a segment that we should expect you investing in going forward over the next year or 2? Yes so last summer or I guess late spring we launched our no-antibiotic-ever line NatureRaised Farms.
As a total -- as a percent of the total meat sold let's lump things into natural I'm going to call it that.
It's a pretty small percentage versus our traditional lines but it's growing at a pretty healthy pace.
And so it's something that we can't ignore.
The category's big enough that a national player can make some difference in.
So yes we will continue to focus on the category.
In terms of our investments we've got a lot of things that we can invest in in our business to continue to grow.
That would be one of them.
Feel good about our opportunity in that category.
And so expect it -- expect to hear more of this in the future.
But I don't look for any disproportional investment over the next year or 2 I would say in our no-antibiotic-ever line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one follow-up question for Jim.
With some of the supply constraints with the Australian drought how are you thinking as far as imports of 90- or 50-CL trim? And how is Tyson positioning for potentially lower trim imports during 2014? Lower trim imports are generally favorable to wholesale -- to domestic prices.
But as always the market likes to do its job.
And we've seen very low cow kills so therefore low 90 beef manufacturing supplies in October or in this -- particularly October November and December more acute in December which is extremely supportive to the trim and ground beef and chuck and round pricing coming into January.
So the question will be how fast can they get it in the pipeline and will it neutralize some of this rapid price increase we've seen.
But generally speaking if you have lower imports it's favorable to wholesale prices.
And I think as we've seen these record-high ground beef prices et cetera that's part of that whole complex.
So that's part of the big contributor to the beef cutout right there.
So -- and it's a nice number you can watch when it's coming in and look at it and its contribution to total domestic availability.
Our next question comes from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Question on Chicken.
Clearly the performance this quarter was a record.
The outlook for the rest of the fiscal year is good.
Supply's pretty contained and the pricing environment pretty healthy.
And I guess a little bit of thinking about 2015 as you start to see kind of maybe some more pressure on supplies the breeder flock kind of gets rebuilt and one of your competitors has a new plant coming on stream.
How confident are you in the 10% EPS growth in '15 if you start to see some cyclical pressures in Chicken? Well very.
We manage the supply and the commodity risks through a variety of approaches.
One is growing our value-added sales.
Our value-added sales in Q1 grew by 6%.
I think the total sales for the company was close to -- right at 5% right? So we're going to make sure that we focus on growing our value-added sales in that 6% to 8% range.
And then when you combine some of the other pricing things that we talked about a little bit earlier plus our buy versus grow strategy we have the opportunity to continue to grow our sales at a very good pace whether we increase our production or not.
So I feel great about our continued opportunities in 2015 to expand really our Prepared Foods business our Chicken business getting better in exports.
So yes feel very good about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then maybe just one more for me.
In the quarter SG&amp;A about 15% year-on-year it's the highest level both on absolute basis and as a percent of sales since 2010.
Is that just really accelerated MAP spending in Prepared Foods? Or anything else there that you could comment on? No it's predominantly MAP spending in our growth categories.
So we're intent on growing that business and we needed to increase our MAP spending to be able to get to the category growth levels that we have to have to meet our objective.
So that's what it is.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Scott with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on China.
When you say that you'll continue to plan for expansion do you mean that you'll continue to get permits from the China government and just not build the chicken houses? Or do you mean that you're going to hold off on everything? No you're exactly right.
We intend to continue to get our land-use permits and to have all of that in place so that when we get the demand signal that we're looking for that we can begin construction on our houses.
We will be -- at the end of this year we will have both of our processing plants in China 1 shift full of company-controlled birds.
Now we were planning on being -- in the last half of this fiscal year continuing the house build to be able to grow past that early in the first half of the year on company-controlled birds.
But we're going to back off buying market birds and be at a single shift full at both plants with company-controlled birds at the end of this year.
And our planning and everything we're doing is focused on that with continuing to acquire the land to grow in the future.
And if we get a demand signal that something is changing we'll be able to put our foot back on the accelerator and go again because we fully intend to fill those plants out with company-controlled birds.
And our final question comes from Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montral.
I have a couple of questions.
Your 2014 outlook was always back half of 2000 run rate -- back half of 2013 run rate.
But this quarter -- and then also that it was going to be more back-end loaded this year as well.
But this quarter you obviously kept the run rate actually a little bit above the run rate.
So my question is what exceeded your expectations? I mean is there any change to the back half outlook for 2014? Yes.
I think for me Beef probably outperformed a little more than what I was expecting it to.
Prepared Foods was right where we thought it would be.
Chicken is right where we thought it would be.
Pork was pretty close.
So it was probably Beef is what surprised us a little bit -- well maybe not surprised us but we're pleased with the performance.
I'd tell you Ken coming in I would have never predicted a 240 cutout in beef right? So this is just an unpredictable quarter that we're in today.
But yes we feel very good about the rest of our year and carrying a lot of good momentum into '15.
So just to go back so you don't have a change to your back half look.
Because you basically said all you said was we're going to be at least at what we thought.
But you and I'll use your own words it was a fabulous start.
So I'm assuming that that fabulous start should be incremental to the full year when we think about the full year.
Hey it could be.
The door is open for us to do better.
I'll tell you what if we -- we will not miss an opportunity if one presents itself to increase our earnings I promise.
So -- but hey it's January and there's a few things that make it a little hard for us to predict.
But I feel very comfortable about where we have been with the opportunity to get better and we're certainly looking for every chance we get to do that.
I apologize for laughing but we never miss an opportunity to do better.
But -- and then also I don't even talk to the beef packer margin this -- the Jan to March period of time is usually a pretty rough period for beef packer margins.
Obviously you have the closure and then on top of that you've had beef packer margins that -- I mean look in 25 years of history we've never seen a $200 change per head in beef packer margins.
Again granted it's what we see.
But again beef packer margins seem pretty solid.
So this quarter you keep on saying hey look obviously we don't know the predictability.
But clearly the beef packer environment seems better.
Can you talk to why it's better and the duration to which that should stay better? I always remind everybody that it's the relationship of revenue to cattle cost that's where we make our money.
So I always go back and say we do make our money in the slope of change.
And prior to that run-up to the cutout cattle ran up and the cutout clearly there was insufficient supply relative to demand the pipeline or the cupboard was bare.
And to replenish the pipeline prices really inflated very rapidly.
So we've had more volatility and we've navigated through that slope of change very well.
And that's -- and we're coming through January much better than we did 1 year ago.
So that's -- but what we really watch is again trying to make sure that we manage our mix our price relative to fair market value and keep our cost in line work on saving everything we can.
And the only thing I know we have no influence over is what the live cattle are going to do.
So I mean if they're tight they're going to go up and beef will follow it up or precede it up depending upon what the circumstances are doing and that's the nature of the market.
So again a very volatile January unprecedented both in incline and probably will be in decline.
So it's an interesting time.
But you can probably tell we feel pretty good about how we came through it.
And then my final question is you're slowing down -- this is probably more for Dennis you're slowing down the CapEx spending on China but you maintained your CapEx spending at $700 million.
What are you spending more on? That's a great question and we have still many great opportunities both in Prepared Foods and even in our Chicken segment.
So we're just moving it to a domestic bucket high return projects that we feel really good about.
So your pipeline of CapEx projects obviously China being a big one to slowdown the pipeline must be pretty substantial.
Is that a fair statement? It sure is.
Well thanks for your time everyone and certainly your interest in our company.
I'm sorry to wrap this up so quickly but we really do need to head off to our Shareholders' Meeting.
So I want to ask you all to have a great weekend.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your line.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Conference.
For todays call all parties will be on listen-only.
(Operator Instructions) Todays call is being recorded.
If you have any objection please disconnect at this time.
I will now turn todays call over to Mr.
Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods conference call for the second quarter of the 2014 fiscal year.
On todays call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I need to remind you our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read todays press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
(Operator Instructions) Ill now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks John good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
With $0.60 a share Q2 was a record-setting second quarter and we achieved it despite some significant hurdles.
Q2 is typically our most challenging quarter and we expect that that to be the case again this year.
Now that is in the books I feel like were in a really good position for the back half of the year.
But before we comment on the balance of the year lets look at what went on in Q2.
Winter weather affected us in several ways some positive some negative.
Although we saw a dip in our sales to school cafeterias from weather related closings we saw an increase in our retail sales because mom went to the grocery store and stocked up on chicken strips when she heard another round of bad weather was coming.
Our multichannel business channel allows us to serve the consumers needs wherever they are which is one of our streams as a company because of weather conditions we had more issues than normal getting order to our customers and to the members to our plans cold temperatures affected livestock productivity and our propane shortages that resulted in price hikes of that important fuel sources for our growers.
We expect this sort of thing every second quarter at least in some locations but this season winter storm started earlier where more large spread and were more frequent.
Now switching to the consumer demand picture pounds of fresh meats sold at retail were up a little over percent or nearly 3% higher prices.
However if you look at the most recent four-week data for the period ending March 29 total pounds sold were about flat or dollar sales rose a little over 4% driven by a 4.6% increase in pricing.
Fresh meat volume is down nearly 7% on a 7% price increase Pork volume is down nearly 1% or 5% gone up 5.5% and as expected chicken pounds were up 3.5% even though chicken pricing was up 3% indicating a definite ship towards the relative value of chicken.
On the food service side not additional traffic NPD is forecasting traffic growth beyond the 1% which so far in the calendar year were seeing predominantly a small change.
Technomic restated its forecast for the year to reflect the winter storm and its now projecting 2.5% to 3% dollar sales growth down from 4% earlier.
On both retail and food service we continue to see the bifurcation of consumers.
Food spending is leaning towards either a value priced product or a premium option and the middle is getting squeezed.
But again Tyson Foods is serving all of these consumers and whatever channel price points or tight products they are looking for and thats one of the reasons we continue to be successful.
Im really pleased with the 7% growth in sales of our value-added products in all of our channels and this is a key part of our strategy.
So the takeaway for Q2 is that despite bad weather our prices that affected demand and sluggish food service traffic our volume was up nearly 3% over Q2 last year and we had a 4% return on sales.
Now lets see how that looks at the segment level and what we expect going forward? The Chicken segment had an 8.2% return on sales in Q2 volume was up our pricing was up slightly as a result of lower feed ingredient costs and we expect to be down about $500 million for the year.
We expect overall domestic chicken production to be up only 2% to 3% in fiscal 2014 given continued type premium supplies.
We think that strong consumer demand for chicken can easily absorb the small supply increase and it should be a strong year for the Chicken segment.
The Beef segment has just under a 1% return on sales.
We had to deal with the considerable amount of volatility throughout the quarter with temporary supply and balances due to an extreme run up in cattle prices.
It was difficult to maintain the spread but we stayed positive for the quarter.
One of the ways we managed our spread was to run fewer head which is why our volume was down but we effectively maximized revenue and controlled cost to continuous attention to detail and execution of the fundamentals.
Although we may see more of these temporary imbalances in some regions going forward our plans are strategically located near the cattle supplies and we expect to have adequate cattle to run a plant.
as always were managed through margin and we expect these segment results for 2014 to look similar to last year.
In the Pork segment we had a 7.2% return on sales in the second quarter volume was up on strong demand of course the big concern in Pork is the PED virus and its impact on hog supplies.
We did begin to see a supply reduction in our Q2 although heavier weights partially offset fewer heads and we were able to make up some by improving yields as part of our continuous improvement efforts.
The impact of PED is expected to further affect our hog supplies beginning around the June 1 peaking in August and then beginning to ease in October.
Hog weights are expected to be higher and offset some of the head reduction.
So we anticipate industry pork production to be down as much as 4% for the year.
We need to adjust our operating hours accordingly but we think the pork segment will still perform well this year despite these challenges.
The Prepared Foods segment had a 2.4% return on sales for the quarter.
we have strong sales volume but the rapid run up in raw materials and our formula pricing mechanisms created a pricing lag although we expect to recoup the difference later in the year.
Now I want to leave you with the impression however that were satisfied with these results because were not.
Were working on product innovation maximizing the opportunities from our leasing acquisitions investing in our operations and putting mass spending towards product launches to improve the long-term profitability of the Prepared Foods segment.
Id like to update you on one of these launches that we previously told you about which is Tyson DAY STARTS.
The initial rollout went better than planned and were exceeding all our pre-launch objectives.
These products had an ACV of 60% by mid-March which is the fastest growing ACV of any product launch in our industry.
Bacon is another bright spot.
Despite value markets that pushed retails higher we didn't see any demand erosion in Q2.
When you combine our three-tiered branding strategy of Wright Tyson and Corn King Tyson Foods holds the number two market share in sales dollars and when you add private-label to our three branded bacon offerings were the biggest seller of bacon in retail.
And well continue to be aggressive with ACV goals especially with the Wright brand our premium offering.
Bacon is a strong performer and I think there are several other businesses at varying stages of development within the Prepared Foods segment that cant perform as well as our Bacon business in the future.
Admittedly we have room for improvement but I think our Prepared Foods segment is better than the 2.4% return on sales we showed you this quarter and were determined to prove it.
And our final segment to discuss is our new International segment.
Ill give you the highlights and then Dennis will give you the particulars of why we created this new segment and what it comprises.
International had a negative 9.1% return on sales.
China is still the biggest portion of the loss due to the demand destruction.
As I said on our Q1 call we slowed the pace in China as we wait for demand to return.
We think the worst is over and that it should get sequentially better from here but well need to see demand recovery before we can predict when we'll reach profitability in China.
Our operations in Brazil also struggled in Q2 but weve restructured our team there to improve the operational focus.
And speaking of focus back in November we announced several leadership changes for the company and a new organizational structure focused on the key elements of our strategy to accelerate growth reinforce our operational excellence and create opportunities for our team members.
We recently completed the reorganization and now have the teams in place under Hal Carper in Strategy and M&amp;A; Donnie King in Prepared Foods and Customer and Consumer Solutions; Steve Stover in Fresh Meats; and Noel White in Poultry.
Now that we have this important step behind us we can turn people loose to do their best work in the areas that have the most impact.
And now let's go to Dennis for the financial update.
Thank you Donnie and good morning.
As Donnie said earlier we had a record setting second quarter.
Our top line revenue growth was 7.7% over the prior year and quarterly sales surpassed $9 billion for the first time in our history.
We continue to execute our growth strategy as evidenced by increased sales volumes in Chicken Prepared Foods and International.
Total company return on sales was 4% and operating income was $361 million up 53% from Q2 2013.
Our earnings of $0.60 per share is a record for our second quarter and represents the 58% increase over adjusted EPS of $0.38 in Q2 2013.
Year-to-date EPS was $0.32 or a 52% increase compared to last years $0.87 adjusted EPS coming from operation  continuing operations.
Our rolling four quarter EPS is $2.71 from continuing operations on an adjusted basis.
This compares to $1.95 for the same period a year ago.
We achieved a 12-month pre-tax return on invested capital of just over 20% compared to 16% for the prior year period.
This 20% ROIC goal is an important metric for us and one were proud of attaining.
Operating cash flow through two quarters was $265 million after funding $367 million in additional working capital as we grew our business.
This compares to operating cash flows of $230 million for the first two quarters of fiscal 2013.
We spent $153 million on capital expenditures for the second quarter and $293 million for the first six months of fiscal 2014.
This outpaced our depreciation and amortization by $39 million as we continued to invest their projects for both our domestic and international operations.
These projects will not only result in improved productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix but will also increase our ability to innovate and introduce new products to our customers.
During the second quarter we repurchased 2.5 million shares for $100 million under our share repurchase program.
Since May 2011 we repurchased 50.4 million shares for $1.2 billion.
Our effective tax rate in Q2 was 38.3%.
Net debt to EBITDA for the past 12 months was 0.7x and on a gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 0.9x.
Including cash of $438 million net debt was $1.5 billion.
Total liquidity was just under $1.4 billion remaining above our goal of $1.2 billion and gross debt remained as just over $1.9 billion.
Year-to-date net interest expense was $48 million down 30% from a year ago.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 356 million.
This reflects the dilutive effect of options and warrants of 13 million.
The impact of 2.5 million shares repurchased during the quarter will not before you realized until subsequent quarters.
Now here are some thoughts on the full year for fiscal 2014.
We now expect revenues of approximately $37 billion up $1 billion from our previous estimates and almost 8% over fiscal 2013.
Net interest expense should approximate $95 million down $5 million from our previous estimate and down more than $40 million from a year ago.
Effective tax rate should be around 35.5%.
CapEx is expected to be in the $650 million to $700 million.
We expect diluted shares in Q3 to remain around 356 million and because our convertible notes and warrants are behind us there should be less volatility in our diluted shares.
We still think well generate at least $2.78 EPS per the year and at least 10% EPS growth in 2015 and beyond.
Our priorities for excess cash remain the same which are capital spending to improve and grow our existing businesses acquisitions either small bolt-ons or larger strategic acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products and international and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while maintaining we maintain  while ensuring we maintain plenty of liquidity at our disposal.
As Donnie noted earlier we beginning with the second quarter we are now reporting our International operations as a separate segment.
The International separate segment which has been included in our Chicken segment includes our Chicken processing operations in Brazil China India and Mexico.
International became a separate reportable segment as a result of changes to our internal financial reporting to align with executive leadership changes and reorganization Donnie previously mentioned.
We believe this will provide better transparency into our business to enhance understanding of our financial performance.
I would also note that our Beef Pork Prepared Foods and other results were not impacted by this change.
To wrap up we delivered solid results in a seasonally soft quarter and adjusted earnings per share are up 32% for the first half of the year.
We continue to think the back half of the year should be strong and we are confident we can deliver on our targets.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Denise were ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And I do have today first question from Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hi good morning.
Hey Donnie your expectation for chicken production levels are up 2% to 3%.
It's higher than most of the industry that we're hearing from including future.
With lower production in the first half of the year does that imply a fairly rapid expansion in the back half of the year? And what are you thinking about 2015 on that? Can you just help us out with that? Sorry the 2% to 3% is driven mainly on weight continuing to increase of what we think placements will be about flat to maybe up 1% or so in the back half of the year.
I dont see a meaningful change in poultry production until probably the back half of our 2015.
So I dont think there's anything that's going to get away from us.
But I also think Ken theres going to be a very strong demand pull for chicken and the industry is going to try to respond as much as it can.
The relative value of chicken at both retail and food service is going to make for a very very strong chicken back half.
So thats kind of what were seeing.
I dont think the 2% to 3% is anything that would change our margin outlook for the back half of the year.
And my follow-up question is this is more of a technicality.
I just want to  making sure I understand you're now obviously excluding international from your business and you said that your chicken outlook is to be above your normalized range.
If I net those together did the net of those to change to the upside downside or hasnt changed relative to your initial expectations? To the upside if you look at our domestic chicken business for the first half were just under 9% on sales and there is no reason going into the back half of this year for us not to expect our earnings in chicken to be at least that good or better.
So yes I think in general it's the total range if you put the two back together to the upside.
Great.
I appreciate.
Thank you.
You bet Ken.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Farha Aslam.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Just continuing on the Chicken discussion could you just give us a read your pricing was down in the March quarter.
And weve seen spot pricing for chicken improve.
Kind of your outlook for pricing and profitability and a little bit more detail on the U.S.
chicken business for the second half would be helpful? Yes certainly over the last say 30 40 days or so the chicken market has responded.
If you look at I think the beef cut out topped out around 240 or so and pork ran up to 130 or so and that provided a huge Halo for chicken prices to continue and increase because chicken pricing looks relatively cheap compared to those beef and pork numbers.
So we expect to see another strong year of chicken pricing for the summer.
And think that the outlook for the back half of our year should be better than  the earning outlook for the back half of the year should be better than the front half.
Okay thanks helpful.
And then when you look at capital allocation clearly you have significant liquidity available to you yet youve said that your share count should be relatively flat for the rest of the year.
Can you share with us your thoughts on M&amp;A and the environment you're currently seeing? Sure Farha.
Let me take this one by one.
First as far as the share count thats where we are as of now so were not projecting where were going to go from here.
In terms of the M&amp;A environment its a very attractive environment.
Over the past 12 months our EBITDA was about $2.1 billion and so we can put some pretty good leverage on that.
And so  and have the ability to both go after small bolt-on acquisitions or larger more strategic acquisitions.
And just on transactions any color on what you're seeing out there right now? Were seeing a variety of opportunities and value-added and International or just looking for the right strategic fit right now.
Great.
Thank you so much.
The next question comes from Brett Hundley.
Your line is open.
Hello Mr.
Hundley your line is open.
Would you like me to move on? Yes please.
Thank you.
Up next is Michael Piken.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
Just wanted to shift over to the beef side of the business and if we can start on the Pork side I see you've taken your production down 4% to 5%; you mentioned in the prepared remarks that you think the supplies are going to be tightest kind of from June to October.
But where's the industry in terms of finding a vaccine or something to stop the spread of PEDV at this point as best you can tell? Im not aware of any vaccine that has been developed.
I do know in working with our pork suppliers we have a very close very good relationship with the farmers from which we purchase hogs.
And there has been a noticeable increase in biosecurity throughout the areas where we draw our hogs from but as far as we know there is no readily available vaccine.
Okay.
So I mean do you think at this point I mean it seems like at least the spread of the disease has been a little bit contained.
How much of that is weather versus just the improved biosecurity and how confident are you now that sort of we may  the down 4% or so is probably what we're going to see now and that it might not get worse? Let me approach the back half of that question first.
Although its difficult to be completely confident and I'll explain that in a second we work very closely with our farmers.
And we know in the regions where we operate when which farms were affected and we work closely with them to understand how much they are affected.
We also work closely with them to know how much longer theyre trying to hold their hogs to put a little bit more weight on I mean that kind of thing.
So we stay pretty dialed in say within a three or four-week period of what the hog supply is going to look like coming into our plans.
Now the things we cant tell is for example with the increased biosecurity around PED how much improvement is that having on PRRS for example on these farms.
So there is a little bit of movement in that number.
But in general as we just look at the case sections and how they reflected to farmers that we draw hog from.
Were pretty confident that between June and then probably dipping the deepest in that August set period and then trying to start recovering or so in October is the right way to plan our business.
And we work not only with of course our plants in making sure we've got a good plan dialed in as efficient as we can be and move also around where we need to but weve also been working with our customer base to make sure that those products that are sold by the each for example ribs or bellies or whatever are that we understand what the dip is going to look like and how we can help them merchandise through that.
So we think weve got a good plan.
We think we're as dialed in as we can be.
Okay great.
And then just shifting over to beef it looks like the catalog field numbers are supportive of relatively good supply availability over the next two quarters but if you think about fiscal 2015 could you talk a little bit about your outlook for beef margins do you think we can get back to a normalized level it looks like the cattle supplies might get a little more tight as you head into the early half of fiscal 2015 any thoughts there in terms of how we think about your beef business next year? Little more comfortable in the back half of 2014 certainly and we agree with you assessment there that there should be adequate cattle certainly around us the drought in the South West continues and that tends to push a few more cattle up in the Midwest where the predominance of our processing base is.
So we feel good about having adequate cattle around us.
As you get out into 2015 I think you can  looking at the calf crop you can already say that 2015 numbers will be down another 2% to 3% or so.
And it looks like that the cattle are going to continue to concentrate in the Midwest creating some of these regional disparity with cattle supply out there.
But we feel very comfortable that were going to have good cattle around us.
And at this point there is no reason for us not to think of our beef business at least as good as last year or better this year and now a lot of reason to think about it very differently going into 2015 from where we stand today.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
The next question comes from Diane Geissler.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Diane.
Good morning Diane.
I just wanted to put together a couple of these comments that youve made about production into 2015 to get more of a holistic view on total protein production in 2013.
It sounds like to me youre saying that given the constraints of the hen flock you might see a little bit more production in chicken later in 2014 but it wont really ramp until later in 2015.
I dont know if anybody really has a clear call on hard numbers because until we get on top of the virus itself Im not sure where its going to go so I would look at maybe on the hog side flat to up slightly next year and then it sounds like the cattle supply should be down again because of either drought and/or retentions.
If you kind of put that altogether are you looking for sort of flat to up slightly in terms of total protein supply next year or do you have a view on that at this point? The big if for us is whats going to happen with pork.
Id like to think were going to see a herd expansion Id like to think were with biosecurity we'll get on top of PED but its just too early to tell.
I think the rest of it Diane youre dialed in very well on what to expect from a supply standpoint.
So I don't think I'd change your outlook very much and if anything flat to up maybe a little bit would be a pretty decent call in May.
Now well know a little bit more as we get down into the fall but I think youre dialed in pretty good.
Okay.
And then maybe just to move to the demand side of the equation some of the drivers between the DAY STARTS and the light sausage some of the recent eliminator youve done or sort of the best and better growth in the legacy portfolio.
Yes.
We have  our Prepared Foods business is really a broad mix of different types of businesses some other different stages of maturity.
we had several of our segments that responded very well this past quarter and frankly continue to see good  good opportunity all in front of us and we continued to invest in that business as we move forward.
were investing pretty heavily in our max spending not only in the DAY STARTS but also in our breakfast sausage line and we look for those businesses to respond well to that.
And so really we do have some strong businesses in that portfolio that are doing very well and weve got some others that are a bit more immature that were investing heavily in and we give the whole segment  we give that whole segment up to its normalized range.
and I really think looking forward what you should expect we pay for that Prepared Foods segment to be in its range next year as we see these investments come to provision in these next two quarters.
Okay thats helpful.
And maybe just a follow quick one from me in the prepared remarks you alluded some poor operational execution in poultry in Brazil and you said you had restructured that business and maybe elaborating a little bit on whats going on that? Yes we had some folks make some poor decisions around how we handle the part of our processing that  what we had was we had a freezer that made it some repair our folks down there frankly did not do a very good job in that it also backed up into the field and infected our law production.
And so basically we changed that out our country manager in Brazil.
we changed out the plant manager in that location and the law production manager and we have a firm grip on the situation from this point forward.
so that behind us and were looking forward now to  two much better quarters coming ahead.
All right.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And the next question comes from Akshay Jagdale.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
Thanks.
Hi Akshay.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
So my question is on chicken first on fiscal 2015 obviously chicken being a largest business you may  you reiterate it 10% EPS growth.
But at the same time you did talk a little bit about production in the sense that you think that the industry is going to respond to the margin that were seeing right now so can you just help us understand in a scenario where the industry is increasing production which I understand may not happen next year.
but in a scenario where thats happening and youre coming off a year where you have above normal margins can how can Tyson still grow earning the 10% so first Kenneth and whats the strategy to execute on that? So let me take the kind of the part B side of your question can we grow EPS 10% absolutely you should see significant improvement in Prepared Foods next year international off to get better this thing in China is not going to last forever.
I cant tell you today Ive been wrong two quarter to put forward and when we though that thing would return so I cant tell you today but I cant tell you the current situation is not sustainable and that it will and for you  and were doubling down on our cost efforts particularly in China.
So you should see improvement in our international results.
We think Beef ought to be every bid as good next year it is this year same story on Pork if we get any kind of production expansion maybe a little bit better.
And so then kind of back in and then the first part of your question it really pulls back to our buy versus growth strategy Akshay.
We dont have to necessarily grow the Chicken to expand our business.
Weve got two areas for our current Chicken business.
We were just about out of capacity and thats our case-ready fresh chicken which we are the number one brand at retail and thats a very very important segment to our customer and to the consumer.
And so weve got to expand our capacity there and they dont be thinking necessarily production just think capacity.
So it may mean a capacity move from one process type into another to capture a more value-added segment.
And then speaking of value-added we are tapped out on our further process and fully cooked capacity as well.
So we have two lines under construction now and were thinking about another two three lines because our  the consumers responding to our value-added poultry and as the weve grown about 7% I think so far this year in value-added and see no reason off to believe that we wont sustain at 6% to 8% growth in fiscal 2015 as we move forward.
And Akshay this is Dennis I would add to that.
We have a considerable pipeline of projects in the queue around capital spending.
We talked about $650 million to $700 million this year.
We fully expect next year to be quite a bit more and as weve talked about capacity aggregate MIRR our projects over the last four years have been just shy of 25%.
We fully expect that to continue to be the case in fiscal 2014 and 2015.
So there is every reason to believe we can add to the margin structure even through CapEx.
Inc.</strong>  Thank you.
Thats very helpful.
Good segue into the next half of my question which is so what do you expect in terms of supply for the industry next year? So this is live obviously the live part of the industry.
What are you expecting for supply next year? And do you expect industry margins to sustain themselves on the spot level? I would expect on the supply 2% 3% or so driven primarily in the back half as weve said earlier.
And then yes I mean with cattle numbers coming down call pork flat up a little bit.
There is no reason not to expect chicken to not have another good year in terms of its demand if for no other reason than the relative price versus the other proteins.
So yes I think demand for chicken will continue to be strong next year sure.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And then just the short term  and again sorry to ask so many questions on chicken but youve clearly proven that in the bottom of the cycle you can outperform the industry.
The question Ive always had is when things are good how good can it get for Tyson? So things are pretty good.
They have been for the industry now for over a year.
Youve put up a 9.5% margin last quarter but you would expect that the next two quarters would be the best environment from a margin perspective for Tyson is that for the U.S.
Tyson business in Chicken.
Is that a fair assessment and can you give us some insight into how the quarter is shaping up one-month into it? No reason to expect the back half of our year do not be at least as good or better than what the front half was from an earnings perspective.
But remember I would say we dont respond like pure play commodity guys.
Our business model is much more smoothed out through the year.
So we wont necessarily hit the peeks in the summer time like the commodity players will but we also wont see the dips in the lower part of the market to our consistent earnings over time is what our business model is shooting forward and thats what you should expect.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And just one last one following up on some of the questions on M&amp;A.
What I've been sort of impressed by your discipline on M&amp;A as it relates to the price with your ROIC metric the 20% return that you talked about.
So can you just remind us again about the filter and sort of the priorities of that filter? So I mean there's obviously the M&amp;A environment is very good right now.
But the type of prices being paid I would argue are also pretty rich especially let's say for Michael Foods to get a 20% ROIC pre-tax would imply I think doubling the EBITDA on that business in five years.
So can you just help us with your filter and the discipline and put that into context with the environment you're seeing?  Dennis.
Sure.
Akshay this is Dennis.
As far as the filter goes first and foremost they need to be strategic and fit within our goals to grow in the value-added categories around Chicken and Prepared Foods and for that matter possibly even Beef or Pork to the extent they are available.
Internationals obviously a priority as well.
From a disciplined standpoint you are right our goal is to achieve a 20% ROIC with an acquisition.
To the extent that the M&amp;A environment requires higher prices to be paid for companies.
That means we have to work that much harder to get there and we can  we do that through looking at synergies how we can expand the business within our existing distribution framework and just be very disciplined and get there.
That might mean we have to push it out for three to five years to get that return But we think ultimately those kind of acquisitions still would be very accretive from an EPS and then ROIC standpoint over time.
So really nothings changed.
Inc.</strong>  Great.
I will pass on.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Ken Goldman.
Your line is open.
Hey can you talk a little bit about what's going on in Mexico with avian influenza at the moment? There's some reports it's worse than what the Mexican government and some companies that operate there have stated publicly.
I'm just curious to what degree you might expect Tyson to actually benefit from the virus you might see some more industry exports of meat or polis to Mexico? From time to time this is an issue in Mexico.
We dont have any flocks that are affected by right now.
You should know we are taking all of the necessary steps and all of the biosecurity measures to ensure the viability of our supply pricing has improved in Mexico and were reaping the benefit of that.
Certainly as far as eggs moving down there we dont have any plans to move any eggs to Mexico.
And you talked about  separate question  the strength in DAY STARTS beyond your expectations.
Can you talk a little bit about to what extent your success in generating your own brand makes you less likely to buy something in Prepared Foods? I guess to put it another way DAY STARTS has had success so why buy something if you are finding that you can make it yourself? Its an old make versus buy conundrum I guess.
It is as Dennis said on the previous question what were really looking for is strategic fit and the ability to make an acquisition that will be accretive to our earnings.
and so were always looking for opportunities to be able to use the insights we have about whats the consumer needs to find a way to fill that need and grow our business.
We feel great about our organic opportunities we feel great about our opportunity to invest in our current business but were also going to be out there looking for strategic opportunities to fill in the gaps where we need to or to create a little bit more aggressive headspace in a category where we maybe able to buy as long as the purchase make sense and then accelerate growth in that  that particular category whichever category that might be.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
And the next question comes from Farha Aslam.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Just continuing on that M&amp;A question front do you feel like you need more chicken capacity? Would you build that with CapEx or via acquisitions? And in terms of M&amp;A is there a geographic preference or is there a protein preference that youre looking for? The answer to your first question is yes and the answer to our second question is gone with its a strategic fit whether its an International acquisition Poultry value added or Prepared Foods those are the areas of our business where we believe our growth potential loss and where we can have the most value to the consumer and the most value to the shareholder and so our acquisition targets will be focused in those three areas.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one just on the base business when you look at the Texas facility that the lunch meat plant you took down and are ramping back up could you just give us some color on what that can do for earnings in the second half of the year now that its starting back up? In the second half of this year marginal improvement but sequentially in 2015 it ought to make a more meaningful difference it takes a while to get that backed up frankly weve got to get some more business around us to get the revenue side moving thats going to take us at least couple more quarters but we think certainly as we move into 2015 well see sequential and meaningful improvement in that part of our business.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
That concludes the call.
thank you for interest in our business.
And I hope you have a great day.
Thanks.
And thank you for joining in for todays conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
And you may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
I would like to remind the parties that their lines have been placed on a listen-only mode until today's question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you do have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And I'll be turning the call over now to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods conference call for the third quarter of the 2014 fiscal year.
On today's call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I need to remind you our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read today's press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
Today we announced the launch of public offerings of Class A common stock and tangible equity units.
We will not be commenting on these offerings and will not answer any questions regarding those offerings on this call.
To ensure we get to as many of you as possible please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in the queue for any additional questions.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon and good morning everyone and we appreciate you joining us a little early today.
As you saw in our press release we had a record third quarter with an adjusted $0.75 a share.
We did have some one-time issues that I'll talk about when we get to the segments.
But otherwise our results were in line with our expectations.
We're pleased with the quarter.
We're ramping up what will be our best year so far and we're looking forward to starting 2015 which looks to be an outstanding year even before we add Hillshire Brands' great products brands and people to Tyson Foods.
Before we get to the third quarter commentary I'd like to say a few words about the Hillshire acquisition.
Several of us had the opportunity to spend some time in Hillshire in Chicago and we're beyond impressed with their team.
We're excited about taking their expertise and combining it with ours to create a Prepared Foods business with strong stable margins and steady growth.
As we execute our Prepared Foods strategy we're estimating the impact of the synergies with Hillshire along with the cost savings and production efficiencies associated with the plant closures that I'll say more about shortly that will be more than about $225 million in fiscal 2015 and should exceed $500 million by the end of year three.
We expect the acquisition to be accretive in fiscal '15 and substantially accretive thereafter as we generate synergies.
We plan to continue to delivering on our 10% EPS growth target in 2015 and we want to use our strong cash flows to delever the balance sheet quickly.
While I'm excited about the prospects of Tyson and Hillshire coming together we must stay focused on the fundamentals that got us in the position to make this acquisition.
So let's take a look at our segments because we had some issues and there's room for improvement.
The Chicken segment had a 6.9% return on sales in Q3.
Pricing was down 1% due to the untimely and unfortunate events that resulted in the loss of volume in our high-margin value-added products.
In February of this year we experienced a fire at one of our fully cooked processing plants.
Fortunately no one was injured.
But the damage to the infrastructure was more serious than we had originally thought.
And our ability to supply products suffered.
The mechanical repairs are now complete and the plant is back to producing normal volumes.
Additionally in Q3 a second sizeable fully cooked processing plant experienced a series of operational issues and the volume in supplies has been significantly impacted.
New equipment has been ordered and is being installed and we expect to be back at full production volume in the early weeks of our fiscal Q1 of '15.
On our Q2 call you'll remember that I mentioned that we're completely out of fully cooked capacity in our Chicken business which is why we weren't able to move production to other facilities following either event.
So we've endured for long sizeable production shortfalls in one of our highest revenue most profitable business during a time when high-priced beef and pork accelerated the demand for chicken.
These temporary disruptions and the resulting actions we took with customers have and will cost us between 1.5% and 2% return on sales in Q3 and Q4 in our Chicken segment.
In FY '15 we'll be back to our full productive capability and we'll have additional fully cooked capacity coming on line in the spring.
So our Chicken segment is expected to fully recover and deliver a 10% return on sales in 2015.
Moving on to the Beef segment which had a 2.4% return on sales.
The quarter got off to a slow start but finished strong as the summer grilling season brought robust demand despite record high pricing.
And even with those high prices we were successful in promoting our premium branded beef programs.
Our commitment to operational excellence and revenue-enhancing programs continues to work well.
People often forget that a business with the 2% return on sales can still generate a pre-tax ROIC of 15% if you maximize the efficiency of your assets to turn your capital quickly which is what we do.
Looking on to 2015 we expect next year to look a lot like this year from a cattle supply and an operating margin perspective.
Heavier weight cattle are expected to continue to come into market and we're starting to see signs of heifer retention but we're seeing adequate supply of cattle in our regions.
The beef industry is becoming a combination of several small geographic marketplaces.
Cattle continue to be moving to the feed lots in the grain belt.
So it makes sense to have plants close to the feed lines as we do.
Turning to the Pork segment we had a record third quarter with a 7.2% return on sales.
We've managed the supply challenges created by the PED virus very well.
We were able to move supply among our facilities adjust orders and maximize revenue.
In fact our volume was up 5% versus the same quarter of year ago and demand remained strong as indicated by pricing that was up 26%.
Looking ahead into fiscal '15 four factors indicate that we should have an adequate supply of hogs portending another solid performance from that segment.
Futures prices indicate the industry is expecting more hogs later this fall.
Hog weights are already very heavy and we would expect that to continue.
PED seems to have slowed through the warmer months but of course may reappear as we head into winter.
And finally lower price corn may incentivize some level of expansion into 2016.
In the Prepared Foods segment first let's address the negative return on sales of 5.5%.
We incurred a $49 million impairment charge related to the three plant closures we announced Friday.
Although it's always a difficult decision to close a plant let along three it was necessary to improve our capacity utilization and streamline our cost structure.
We aren't eliminating any sales volume from the closings.
We're simply shifting the mix to more efficient facilities because it's imperative that we are cost competitive in these predominantly private label and foodservice categories.
Also in the Prepared Foods Q3 results were higher raw material cost of $95 million.
Although this is typically recovered in future quarters we're working on reducing the lag in our formula pricing to help our earnings correlate more closely with moves in the input cost.
Parts of legacy Prepared Foods segment are performing extremely well and the outlook for 2015 shows considerable improvement.
Additionally we expect to realize substantial synergies from the combination of our Prepared Foods business with Hillshire.
Synergies are expected to come from operational improvements purchasing and distribution.
And when combined with the plant closure cost savings and efficiencies it will be more than $225 million in fiscal 2015 and should exceed $500 million by the end of year three.
We'll be looking at revising the normalized range for the Prepared Foods segment after the transaction closes.
Finally the International segment had a negative 4.1% return on sales.
Sales volume has improved and operating losses were cut in half from Q2 to Q3.
Demand in China is in the early stages of recovery but it's slow and as indicated by the recent news of another food scandal still vulnerable to food safety concerns.
While a negative short-term demand these events continue to reinforce the validity of our business model in China which emphasizes biosecurity supply chain integrity and food safety.
We're currently seeing better supply balance resulting from a drop in grandparent stock imports which will be supportive of pricing in 2015.
As for our business we're now processing 100% company-controlled birds and have eliminated market birds entirely from our supply chain.
Also regarding our International segment we announced this morning that we're selling our operations in Mexico and Brazil to JBS for $575 million.
Although these are good businesses with great team members we haven't had the necessary scale to be a market share leader in either country which is our preferred position.
The sale represents an attractive price and the proceeds will be used to pay down debt associated with the Hillshire acquisition.
Now to wrap up my thoughts on Q3 and fiscal '14 despite the challenges in our Chicken segment and Prepared Foods segments we believe we'll still generate an adjusted EPS of at least $2.78 a share in FY '14 which is more than a 20% growth over last year.
Just to clarify that excludes any earnings or costs associated with Hillshire.
FY '15 is setting up to be another record year for sales operating income and EPS.
We'll have a better idea of how we'll look on our November call but initially we expect Chicken margins to be at or above 10% as we get past the issues in the two value-added plants I told you about and we see the benefits from around $400 million in lower feed ingredient cost.
We think these import margins would look similar to FY '14.
Prepared Foods margins should be much stronger as we run a sound legacy business and integrate Hillshire into Prepared Foods segment.
We're excited about the synergy prospects as we execute our Prepared Foods strategy and anticipate more than $225 million in synergies in 2015 and $500 million by the end of the third year.
The International segment's operating income should improve by about $50 million.
We're expecting to continue our trend of at least 10% EPS growth.
And we anticipate Hillshire being accretive to earnings next year and substantially accretive thereafter.
And now let's go to Dennis for the financial update.
Thanks Donnie and good morning.
We had a second setting third quarter.
Our topline revenue growth was 11% over Q3 a year ago and quarterly sales again surpassed the $9 billion mark.
We continue to execute our growth strategy as evidenced by increased sales volumes in Chicken Pork and Prepared Foods.
Total company adjusted return on sales was 4.2% and adjusted operating income was $407 million or $351 million prior to the adjustments described in our press release.
Our adjusted earnings of $0.75 per share is a record for our third quarter and represents a 9% increase over adjusted EPS of $0.69 in Q3 of '13.
Our GAAP earnings this quarter were $0.73 and we also provided a reconciliation in our press release.
Year-to-date adjusted EPS is $2.07 or a 33% increase compared to last year's $1.56 adjusted EPS coming from continuing operations.
We achieved an adjusted 12-month pre-tax return on invested capital of just over 20% compared to 17% for the prior-year period.
Operating cash flow through three quarters was $543 million after funding $479 million in additional working capital as we grew our business.
We spent $144 million on capital expenditures for the third quarter and $437 million for the first nine months of fiscal '14.
This outpaced our depreciation and amortization by $55 million as we continued to invest in projects that not only result in improved productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix but will also increase our ability to innovate and introduce new products to our customers.
During the third quarter we did not repurchase any shares under our share repurchase program.
This was a conscious decision to maximize liquidity for the upcoming Hillshire Brands acquisition.
As a reminder since May 2011 we have repurchased just over 50 million shares at an average price of about $24 per share.
In order to facilitate deleveraging we currently do not plan to repurchase shares other than to fund obligations under our equity compensation programs.
Our effective tax rate in Q3 was 16.8%.
On an adjusted basis this rate was 31.2%.
Net debt-to-EBITDA for the past 12 months was 0.6 times.
And on our gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 0.9 times.
Including cash of $587 million net debt was $1.2 billion.
Total liquidity was just over $1.5 billion remaining above our goal of $1.2 billion.
And gross debt remained at just over $1.8 billion.
Year-to-date net interest expense was $72 million down 30% from a year ago.
Average diluted shares for the quarter were 356 million.
This reflects the dilutive effect of options and warrants of $3 million settled earlier in the quarter.
Consistent with our Prepared Foods strategy we will close three plants to improve capacity utilization and streamline our cost structure.
We expect the closure of these facilities will result in significant cost savings and production efficiencies but will be revenue-neutral as the sales volumes of these closed plants will be absorbed by capacity at existing facilities.
Additionally our Prepared Foods segment will benefit from the addition of a great business in Hillshire Brands.
We will achieve significant synergies from operational improvements purchasing and distribution.
For fiscal 2015 we expect the impact of the Hillshire brand synergies along with the cost savings and production efficiencies associated with the plant closures will positively impact our Prepared Foods segment by more than $225 million and should exceed $500 million by the third year following the close of the acquisition.
Additionally as announced today we've entered into an agreement to sell our chicken operations in Mexico and Brazil for $575 million.
This transaction is expected to close in the next few months and we plan to use the sales proceeds to delever following the Hillshire Brands acquisition.
Now here're some thoughts on the full year for fiscal '14 and some thoughts on fiscal '15.
Please note the outlook for fiscal '15 does assume that the Hillshire acquisition will close in fiscal 2014.
Additionally the fiscal '15 outlook also factors in the sale of our Mexico and Brazil operations along with the synergies expected from the Hillshire acquisition and the closing of the three Prepared Foods plants.
We expect revenues of approximately $38 billion for fiscal '14 which is 10% growth over fiscal '13.
Revenues for fiscal '15 are expected to grow 11% to $42 billion.
Net interest expense should approximate $130 million for fiscal '14 including the financing for the Hillshire Brands acquisition.
For fiscal 2015 we expect net interest expense of $290 million reflecting the full impact of the financing.
The adjusted effective tax rate should be around 34.5% for fiscal '14 and is expected to be around 36% for fiscal 2015.
CapEx is expected to be $600 million to $650 million for fiscal 2014 and for fiscal 2015 CapEx is expected to approximate $900 million as we not only look for projects that improve productive capabilities labor efficiencies yields and sales mix but to also implement projects that drive efficiencies between Tyson and Hillshire Brands for future growth.
We expected diluted shares in Q4 of approximately $356 million prior to the equity offerings we launched this morning.
You can refer to our pro forma information filed earlier today for the potential additional shares.
We still believe we'll generate at least $2.78 adjusted EPS which is more than 20% growth over fiscal '13.
This excludes any earnings or costs associated with the Hillshire acquisition.
Fiscal '15 is setting up to be another record year for sales operating income and EPS.
Chicken margins should be at or above 10%.
Prepared Foods margins should be stronger as we integrate Hillshire and realize the benefits of the significant synergies and other operational improvements within our legacy Prepared Foods business as we execute our Prepared Foods strategy.
The International segment should improve by $50 million.
And as a result we expect at least 10% EPS growth and the Hillshire acquisition to be accretive in 2015 and substantially accretive in future years.
Our priorities for excess cash are significant deleveraging from the strong combined cash flows of Tyson and Hillshire capital spending to improve and grow our existing businesses acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies around value-added products in International and returning the cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while ensuring we maintain plenty of liquidity.
To wrap up with the operational disruptions and other significant challenges we faced throughout the quarter we still maintained focus and delivered another record quarter with adjusted earnings per share of 33% for the year.
We believe the fourth quarter should be almost as strong and we are confident we can deliver on our targets.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Kelly we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Diane Geissler and she is with CLSA.
I wanted to ask about the US chicken operations and the operational issues that you had during the quarter.
When you look at that in particular the second plant where you said you had to order machinery it's not going to be back up online until I guess the first quarter of fiscal '15 did that cause you to go back and look at all of your other facilities because I know you went through a period when grain prices were very high that you had cut CapEx et cetera? Just a little bit nervous about being so close to complete capacity utilization that if you have one outage it causes such a problem.
And then the second question I have is just relating to the new segment reporting where you're stripping out International.
Can you give us an idea about what you think the domestic business should carry on a normalized basis in terms of the margin there? Yes we have been through all of our facilities.
And a couple of things that we'll do differently we'll move some of the retail fully cooked capacity among other plants which will add a little bit of buffer in preventing these types of things from happening again.
Also we have pinpointed all of the locations where we can and should over the next few incremental quarters put in fully cooked capacity.
We'll have two more lines that will come on right after the first year so call that about Q2 of FY '15.
And frankly we need that capacity early in that fiscal year.
Also on your second question when you carve out international in the Chicken segment I think for '15 we feel very good about being at or above 10%.
And we're at the point where we're rethinking our normalized range for chicken.
It's a little bit early with all that we've got going on in that segment in this quarter till we get all of our productive capability back up and all of that to do that.
But we're rethinking that and we'll be talking about that in subsequent quarters.
So maybe just as a follow-up to that I think your previous range was 5% to 7%.
I guess what I'm trying to ask here is your guidance for fiscal '15 at 10%-plus would be above a normalized range for the US operation? Yes certainly.
And our next question comes from Brett Hundley from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
My first question is just on the Prepared Foods segment and the language that you guys gave for 2015.
Can you discuss at all the synergy portion from Hillshire? Does that take up a majority of that $225 million? Is it half? Can you just speak to that and also speak to whether you're taking into account rebound in Hillshire business if in fact PED comes off and some of those costs abate? So your second question first is no.
And on your first question think about the legacy Tyson Prepared Foods synergies being a little over half of that $225 million.
So you can see it's fairly balanced.
There's a lot of opportunity there.
And those synergies are around operational efficiencies purchasing supply chain efficiencies those types of things.
So we feel really good about our ability to capture those.
And then just my second question is back to your legacy Chicken business.
Donnie with the drop in feed can you just talk a little bit about your approach going forward? Do you think that you guys would become a little bit longer as it relates to your procurement of feed and just again going back to the confidence that you have that Chicken margins can be even up again year-on-year for 2015? I appreciate it.
Yeah.
So two things.
Number one on our commodity procurement strategy we really won't change that very much.
I mean we always look for opportunities when they present themselves to use options to help us with some of the commodity volatility.
But we're pretty conservative when it comes to grain.
We want to make our money growing processing marketing and selling chickens.
So on the other part I'm going to say how to think about chicken going forward so we're leaving a good bit of money on the table in Q3 and Q4.
So that then will be captured.
And then as we continue to grow value-added our case-ready chicken business is doing very very well as breast chicken at retail becomes much more popular with consumers particularly in light of the really high beef and pork prices so we've got to expand that part of our business and we'll be working on that as well.
So we feel very comfortable with our '15 outlook in terms of what we're doing with our mix and how we view our underlying cost structure.
The one question that some investors want to know about is okay what about chicken supply.
And as we look at that we don't see that there will be a meaningful increase in chicken supply until around the 4th of July or so next year.
So if you look at all of that combined that sets us for a very good '15 for us.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam from Stephens.
A quick question about your 10% earnings guidance growth for next year.
Is that kind of off of that $2.78 base that you're discussing because Donnie your comments were that you're very confident about 10% growth? And Dennis your comments about the fourth quarter implied about a $2.78 $2.80 year.
But consensus is at $2.90.
I just want to clarify the outlook that you're providing.
We keep saying we expect to do at least $2.78 so be expecting the 10% growth over that.
And then in terms of the Hillshire synergies I mean that step-up versus your initial $300 million comment is pretty material.
And I was just wondering in particular as you got under the covers basically on Hillshire and got a deeper read what makes you confident about that significant bump-up in synergies? So when we look to combining our legacy Prepared Foods business and Hillshire together the businesses are very complementary and the more time that we now have gotten to spend with some of the Hillshire folks as we begin planning the integration it's pretty easy to see that there's going to be significant synergies in supply chain arena and logistics and operational efficiencies and those kind of things.
Plus we had an early conversation about latent capacity and the footprint.
And so as we work through that what it made sense to do is to unfortunately close those three locations and then move that production into more efficient facilities that frankly had better supply chain cost as well.
So when you combine all of that together that's how we got to at least $225 million number.
We feel really good then about adding to not just the legacy deal continuing to improve after that but certainly with the Hillshire synergies combined being able to build that on up to at least $500 million range.
And will some of those $500 million be captured in your Pork division as you source that product internally more and more that supply? No we do believe there's great value end-to-end in Pork and Prepared Foods.
But we're just talking about the synergies that will be reported in the Prepared Foods segment.
Our next question comes from Adam Samuelson from Goldman Sachs.
A little bit more detail on the forward chicken supply outlook.
And Donnie I was hoping you could comment on your own order book at Cobb and how you see that order book playing out over the next year year-and-a-half in relation to kind of future growth in pullets and chickens in US.
As I said on one of the previous questions what it look like to us in terms of the pullet supply coming to the market as far as the building the breeder herd or flock it looks like to me the increase in broiler meat on the market would appear at about somewhere mid-summer so call it 4th of July.
And I think that before that it's just physiologically impossible to get a whole lot more supply on this market.
And then on the confidence in the Chicken margins next year I mean excluding some of the operational issues that you had this year looks like fiscal '14 would have been somewhere in the 8% to 9% range for the whole year.
Is the improvement then just solely on feed with stable pricing or is there something else there beyond the feed costs that give you the confidence in the margin expansion? As you look at the environment you got to believe that beef prices in terms of price situation you're going to have a similar environment next year as this year.
As you get into pork it looks like to us that more hogs are going to be coming to the market in the fall.
With grain prices coming down you're likely to see a little bit of finished hog expansion perhaps in the latter part of our fiscal '15.
So that's just a great environment there in the pricing structure.
The parts of our business where the demand is growing are in profitable parts of our business our fresh chicken business.
And unfortunately because of the operational issues our value-added business is seeing great demand.
As you saw during the school season in the winter a lot of demand for fully cooked retail products so as we get our capacity back on line that looks like it will be another great year for us.
So you're really talking about three things.
Yes you're going to have a favorable grain environment.
You're also going to have a favorable market environment structurally in terms of chicken and its relative pricing to beef and pork.
And the parts of our business where we're seeing the greater demand are the parts of our business where we have good margins.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
So first question is on the '15 guidance.
I'm trying to reconcile two things.
One is at least 10% EPS growth implies around I think $3.06 or $3.05 in EPS if you take $2.78 as the base.
And then if I look at your operating income guidance for Chicken and the other segments I'm getting to much higher consolidated EBIT growth.
Obviously the interest expense is going up.
But when I factor all of that in including the estimate that you've given on the share issuance this morning it looks like 10% EPS growth is very conservative.
I'm getting to closer to 20%.
I mean can you give us some help? I know there's some things you can't comment on.
But the EBIT guidance seems to be well in excess of what you're calling sort of 10% growth.
So can you just help me out a little bit there? It's early for us coming out of Q3 right? I would agree that our earnings guidance is conservative but that's because we're early.
So here's how we think about that.
So let's just talk in ballpark terms okay? If you look at how you view where this year is going to end up if you look at the last 12 months it's like a 1.6% in operating income-wise.
You can back in using at least the $2.78.
And then if you take 10% return on sales on our Chicken business that's going to be worth an incremental $200 million or so.
If you look at Hillshire's earnings you got to be thinking about an incremental $400 million or so.
The Prepared Foods synergies will be $225 million.
International will improve by about $50 million or so.
You're right on the interest expense and it's probably a little early to talk about that in too specific a detail other than we're estimating pro forma is about $2.90.
So then you use 36% tax rate and adjust for the new shares.
And I think you got the math.
And second question is just a follow-up to I guess what Farha was saying.
The $500 million synergy number is impressive in itself in terms of just increasing it from $300 million so fast.
But can you just help us understand eventually what impact might this acquisition have on your Pork business? And also does it have the potential to positively impact the Prepared Foods portion of the Chicken business? And ultimately are those two factors that will really in your mind make this a really successful acquisition versus an okay one? Well we certainly believe this is going to be an extremely successful acquisition.
If you look at the Pork segment end-to-end and we look at end-to-end value creation we see a lot of opportunity there.
I would hasten on to say it's a little bit too early.
We see Hillshire a little bit today but not very much.
So we'll need to get through the deal itself and then be able to drill down on that a little bit more.
But that certainly seems like that there should be two benefits one a stabilization of earnings between the two segments and then there should be some opportunity end-to-end to capture even more savings.
So that's how we're looking at that.
Can you give us some guidance on D&amp;A for '15? And I'm assuming a share count of between 405 million and 410 million.
Is that roughly correct? Akshay I can't comment on the share count.
That's related to the equity offering.
As Jon said upfront we can't comment on that.
But if you do have the information out there help you with the calculation.
As far as D&amp;A goes think about $700 million or so.
And our next question comes from Michael Piken from Cleveland Research.
Just want to get your thoughts on what your expectations are for the industry in terms of taking the normal seasonal fall cuts.
Do you expect people to sort of take the normal levels? Or do you think with the margins being as strong as they are that we might see people hold on their pullets a little bit longer? I can only comment on what we're doing.
Typically we'll pull out a couple of days in the fall for placement cuts for the holidays.
This year because frankly we've dug a pretty deep hole in our value-added business.
We are going to need to back off what we typically do just a hair to make sure that we've got the raw material supply to be able to run what then will be all of our fully cooked lines running full because we've got to build back the pipe and we've got to build some incremental inventory for promotional activity next year because of the situation that we've caused with our customers this year.
So I can only talk about what we'll do.
And that's not a significant increase in production.
What I just said is just we're going to need some incremental particularly breast meat to keep running our FP lines full.
And then you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you're no longer buying breast meat the open market.
Is that sort of a long-term strategy or would you expect to kind of switch back once you get everything ramped up back to the old strategy of buying on the open market? I don't remember that being said.
And if it was said it was said by mistake because we're still buying not only breast meat but we're buying some tenders.
And frankly Michael one of the customer-related issues is if you're shortened on the FP you sure don't need to have full service and full order fill in their fresh offering particularly as important as that is today in light of how beef and pork prices.
And so frankly we've been buying some whole birds and we've been buying some other parts to take into our tray pack plants and frankly run that on overtime.
Now that's not a favorable economic position but we're going to fix our fully cooked issue.
And when we do we don't want to make customer any angrier than they already are about not getting their orders.
So we've made a decision to take very good care of them in all other lines of business so that we can quickly recoup from the FP side.
So yes we're very much out in the marketplace buying raw material.
And then lastly just shifting over to the Pork side of the business obviously you did very well in the face of PEDV.
I mean I guess if you could just talk about sort of some of the factors.
Has this been sort of all demand-driven or was this some operational things you did right and sort of what are your expectations for kind of going forward? I know you said PEDV it's too early to call but it sounds like you're expecting supplies to alleviate.
Any other color you can provide on how you're able to do so well in pork would be helpful.
We think that what we'll see about for the year will be about 5% less hogs.
Now we're at the point where we are seeing I guess the biggest supply dip.
But I also want to say that on the national numbers if you take out North Carolina and Oklahoma then the supply dip for the industry is really only about 3%.
And so most of our hog operations are in Eastern Nebraska and Iowa.
And so we have a very good grasp of the supply situation around us.
What our team did to manage that number one we worked very closely with our customers on those items that are sold off-site by the each instead about a pound knowing that with a little bit cheaper grain basis in the Midwest hog producers were going to be able to put a little bit more weight on the hogs which thankfully they put considerable more weight on the hogs which has offset some of the volume in things like hams and that type thing.
But now with bellies or ribs we've worked with our customers very closely to manage those promotions.
Secondly we have very good relationships with our hog producers most of whom we've been doing business with for years.
We've stayed very close to them.
And we're able to dial in the supply fairly specifically at least to the point that we can move hogs between facilities in order to spread out the production runs and give ourselves the best opportunity to service our orders.
So when you combine those two things our team really really did a great job.
In terms of fresh pork supply and demand the demand for pork is up significantly.
We know the pounds are going to be down just because we're not producing them.
But in the last four weeks ended in May pork pricing just in that last four weeks at retail was up 23%.
So the demand for pork is very strong.
Frankly the demand for beef and chicken is very strong.
It's just chicken has been the only one to really be able to supply some portion of the demand.
So if you look at ground beef pricing for the four weeks ended you're up 12.5%.
Fresh beef was up 10.5%.
Chicken was up another 4.5%.
And like I said fresh pork was up 23%.
So the demand for protein is really strong.
Our next question comes from Ken Zaslow from Bank of Montreal.
Just starting off just so I understand the guidance for a second you have about $100 million less chicken profitability and you have higher interest expense and less share repurchases.
Is that kind of what I'm hearing? When we said $130 million for '14 that was inclusive of the initial Hillshire financing.
When we talk about the $2.78 though it's still up the old run rate that we described before of about $95 million or $100 million.
But still you're keeping your guidance.
So you did stop your share repurchases which is probably another $0.02 to $0.03.
And you had about $100 million that you're going to lose in your chicken profitability because of operational issues.
And you're still hitting the numbers? And the other thing to perhaps not miss there is in Q3 we absorbed $95 million in incremental Prepared Foods raw material cost that we did not recapture all of that in our pricing structure because of the way our pricing works.
By the way that's up $160 million for the year.
And so there was the $50 million write-off in Prepared Foods but there was also the inability because the markets were still going up to capture any raw material costs.
So if the markets will stabilize then that capture will happen in future quarters.
Now we're doing what we can to shorten the lag.
But it takes a while to work through that.
So I think that's another important thing to keep in mind.
So your base number is actually higher than what you're saying and then you expect to grow 10% off that.
Is that a fair way of also thinking about it a little bit? I think the easiest way to look at that is what we've said was our EPS guidance would be off where we land this year.
But I think we can see that there's upside potential to that.
We're just talking about this now in our Q3 which normally we don't talk about that too much until November.
So I think what we're trying to say is we've got a pretty conservative baseline of growth with upside to that.
Then my two follow-up questions.
One is you obviously have a better clarity to the cost savings.
What did you find out that gives you any confidence or change your view on that? Obviously you probably had one or two meetings with the Hillshire folks.
Can you talk about that and exactly why you came up with a different synergy number? You're exactly right Ken.
We would have this assumption about a particular category and let's say some category and purchasing.
And so we have a quick conversation and you find you know what that's probably not right.
But here is another category where we didn't think there might be very much savings there ends up being more.
When we look at capacity utilization when we look at transportation and logistics savings around we have a different basic tenet around our distribution model.
And so being able to combine that and get fuller trucks and both refrigerated and frozen been able to shorten the distance of the raw material travels to the manufacturing plant that we can figure out how to do a network optimization model to streamline that all the way to the customer those are some of the things as we started these conversations that get popping up that makes us feel really good about what we see going forward.
And two our very use in our synergy number is really let's call them hard synergies.
Call it savings and supply chain savings and purchasing savings and that kind of thing.
When you start thinking about the innovative capability new product development sales growth efficient map spending and brand spending there is a lot of incremental value that will be created through this acquisition.
On the front end especially before the deals are even closed we want to only talk about those hard synergies that we can report back on every quarter.
And then my last question is you didn't talk about hog supply and impact.
Again I guess PED virus.
But I'm actually thinking about the hog production margin.
I know you're not in the business of hog production.
It seemed to be pretty great if not at near-record levels.
I would assume that there would be some expectation of expansion over the next two to three months.
What's your take on that? And then how is that factored into your expectation because I'm assuming you don't expect (inaudible) prices to be at $90.
So here's the way we're thinking about that Ken.
First a hog producer that did not have PED is having an outstanding year.
Unfortunately many have had PED and obviously that's a devastating loss to those farms.
If you go back into the early spring there was a potential to lock up really decent margins hedging.
And so a lot of guys put on hedges and their margin calls have been significant.
And so frankly the farm banks have been I think a little hesitant maybe so far until these producers are able to clear that hedge in Chicago the margin issue in Chicago by selling out the hogs.
They've been a little bit hesitant as we understand it to talk much about expansion.
But in my opinion as you get on into the fall assuming of course that we don't (inaudible) that we have a decent corn crop there's going to be a compelling financial case for a lot of these hog producers who have healed in a lot of their balance sheet to be able to add some finishing capacity and move forward.
And I think the finishing capacity is probably the capacity to spend on is probably the cheaper to spend.
And so that gives us confidence that with the biosecurity precautions that producers have taken they're seeing incremental benefits in other diseases that they typically work with during the year too.
So that gives us confidence that we're going to see the hogs up about 2% or so next year.
And our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
First one is on Chicken.
So there's two questions.
A 10% margin would be obviously the highest.
Not only annual margin but I think even on a quarterly basis we haven't seen 10% from your Chicken business at least in a while.
So help me understand why that's not only possible but perhaps conservative and something you're confident in.
And secondly what happens when chicken supply does pick up? In terms of the range where are we now in terms of bottom of the margin range for Tyson because we could argue and debate what the top end is because you haven't really pushed that up as much as we would have thought? But certainly I think you've proven that the bottom end is higher.
So when chicken supply does pick up maybe in 2016 what's the worst we could see from the Chicken business? So let's think about '15 first.
Obviously we're leaving money on the table with our production issues.
Then so if you just pull that $100 million or so in and then we're going to have grain down say $400 million and remember the parts of our business where we're seeing the greatest demand is the parts of our business where we have the best margin structure rightfully so.
And so when you put all three of those things together I think it's pretty easy to see that if you do 10% on $11 billion business that's pretty easy math.
Now let's think about going forward into the latter part of '15 and on into '15.
So because we are working hard to maintain our investment-grade rating to keep a grade capital structure we're going to have the available cash flows to be able to keep spending on our business and we intend to do that and we've got several projects in chicken where we can continue to spend money and generate cost efficiencies.
And I think we've done pretty well over the last three or four years proving that we can do that.
I think over a four-year average it'll probably be like 25%-ish on our CapEx all in.
So we know how to spend efficiently to gain cost improvements.
Second thing we'll continue to grow our value-added business.
Frankly the only thing keeping us from selling a whole lot more value-added is our productive capability.
So we're getting all of that fixed more case-ready.
Case-ready chicken is growing at retail because we have decent pork prices.
I think that will continue for several years and we'll continue to add capacity into that offering.
By the way we'll grow our no-antibiotic-ever line of predominantly fresh chicken.
So we've got opportunity there.
What we strive for Akshay is a more stable business model.
We have birds in all of the major bird-size classes.
And we strive for variable pricing models to be able to deliver consistent growing earnings over time.
And we spend a lot of time getting this business under us.
Unfortunately we've had that production issue in the last half of this year.
But once we get that behind us I think we've got a great future going forward.
Then if you look at the rest of the business our case-ready beef and pork offering will continue to grow.
Of course we're adding Hillshire great capabilities there plus all of the synergies there.
We should see adequate pork supply.
We'll start seeing some improvement in our international business.
We'll see benefit from our legacy Prepared Foods benefits as we get the production footprint right and stabilize the raw material.
So when you combine all that that's a great story going forward that will carry you beyond '15 on into the '16-plus.
And besides that keeping that investment-grade rating and then rapidly delevering this debt we have multiple growth options open to us in the very not-too-distant future.
And that's important to continue the Tyson story upfront.
Thank you.
And I'd like to turn the conference call back over to Donnie for any closing remarks.
Thanks Kelly.
Hey before we go let me just reiterate a few key points.
Number one we expect to continue our trend of at least 10% EPS growth next year.
We anticipate Hillshire being accretive to earnings in 2015 and substantially accretive thereafter.
We think our Prepared Foods segment synergies will be over $225 million as we execute our Prepared Foods strategy in 2015 and $500 million by the end of the three years.
So thanks for joining us today and we hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may all disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Tysons Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
All lines will be on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections disconnect.
Id now like to introduce Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods conference call for the fourth quarter and 2014 fiscal year.
On today's call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read today's press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
To provide a framework for our commentary fiscal 2014 included one month of Hillshire results but for the purposes of looking back on the year we will speak to adjusted results that exclude Hillshire.
For GAAP results and adjustment reconciliations please refer to this mornings press release.
Id also like to point out that our accounting cycle will result in a 53-week year in 2015.
To make comparisons easier the projections in our outlook have been adjusted to a 52-week year unless otherwise noted.
Following our prepared remarks well go to Q&amp;A.
To ensure we get to as many of you as possible please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in the queue for any additional questions.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Well Q4 was a record quarter with adjusted earnings of $0.87 a share which is a 24% year-over-year improvement.
2014 was an outstanding year.
So lets look at some of the highlights.
We have record adjusted EPS of $2.94 a 30% improvement over last year.
Sales were a record $37.6 billion.
Adjusted operating income was also a record at $1.65 billion a 20% increase over last year.
Our overall adjusted operating margin was 4.4% and most important in 2014 we completed the acquisition of Hillshire brand a watershed event that will take Tyson to a new level as a branded food company.
It was a great year one in which we structurally improved the earnings power and reduced the volatility of the business.
But I dont want to spend a lot of time looking back because we have so much more to be excited about in 2015 and 2016 and for years to come.
So lets take a look at the segments and see how the events of Q4 lead us into 2015.
In Q4 the Chicken segment reported on an adjusted basis a 7.4% return on sales with volume up 2.3% and average pricing down 4%.
Youll remember on our last call that I told you about temporary disruptions in two plants that would affect our return on sales in the third and fourth quarters.
We have corrected those issues and began bringing production back on line in Q1.
Well be adding much needed value added capacity in the spring for fully cooked and tray-packed chicken.
Demand for tray-packed is growing as retail consumers seek fresh healthy options.
Its important to understand that were not increasing supply but rather shifting capacity to a more value-added product mix.
Also to support growth in fresh chicken we very efficiently used a small amount of MAP spending to generate over 800 million consumer impressions and it's helped widen the gap over our competitors as the number one brand in the country.
We're also experiencing double-digit growth in our NatureRaised Farms brand of no-antibiotics-ever chicken.
Although it's only a small piece of our branded chicken business we're pleased with the demand for these products and the premium consumers are willing to pay for them.
As you probably saw in our press release this morning we have raised the normalized operating margin range for the chicken segment to 7% to 9% but we expect to exceed that in fiscal 15 with more than a 10% return on sales.
With consumption shifting away from high priced beef we expect chicken demand to increase by at least 3% in 2015 which should support our pricing expectations given that chicken supplies are projected to be up about 3% for the year.
Additionally our domestic feed cost should be down by about $350 million.
An important report to remember about our chicken business is that we have a diversified value-added portfolio and we don't require record chicken prices and cheap corn to do well.
We use our buy versus grow strategy to take advantage of pricing when there is more chicken on the market and we do expect more supply in 2016 but we'll need it to meet demand.
Our strategy is steady growth not a commodity roller coaster ride.
With our business model we don't view increased supply as a problem.
I'll move on to the beef segment which had a 3.5% return on sales for the quarter.
Volume was down only 2.6% and I say only because pricing was up 21.5%.
Our team did a great job of managing the spread in times of record high cattle costs.
We anticipate fed [ph] cattle supplies to be down about 4% in 2015 but that should be the worst of it.
There are indications of heifer retention to rebuild the herd.
Supplies are expected to be flat to down about 1% in 2016 and as a positive for Tyson the cattle population continues to move closer to our plants in the Midwest.
With good export demand domestic pricing in 2015 will test how much people really want beef but it's clear that demand for beef is very strong and will provide support for chicken and pork pricing.
One of the things thats really impressed me over the past few years is our ability to manage through a low volume environment.
We continue to find ways to become the high revenue low cost player in the regions we compete.
How we run a commodity business is more important than the commodity volatility.
A good example of our margin mentality is our continuing success in producing more case-ready beef which drives incremental sales margins and consumer occasions.
Turning to the pork segment which had a 6.1% return on sales in the fourth quarter volume was about flat to Q4 last year on a 16.5% increase in pricing.
The PED virus reduced hog availability and our pork team did a good job of hog procurement in a time of tight supply which kept our capacity utilization well above industry averages.
As the supply of hogs tightened this past year it demonstrated the relative inelasticity of certain type of our pork bellies [ph] for bacon.
From an end-to-end perspective we find ways to reduce volatility and improve our margins.
While I expect global beef and pork supplies to remain tight and to keep pricing at higher levels the structural shift towards increased global protein consumption will continue to driving incremental demand for our products.
Looking at fiscal '15 we expect a 2% to 3% expansion in hog supplies and it appears there will be fewer instances of PEDv coming off of reduced numbers last year.
In addition to constrained beef production we think consumer demand will support a 2% to 3% pork supply increase.
So 2015 should be another good year for Pork segment margins.
In our International segment as previously announced well use the proceeds from the sale of our Latin American businesses one of which is expected to close by the end of this month to pay down debt.
We made these decisions to generate better long term ROIC.
I want to emphasize that we're committed to doing business in Mexico and supporting our customers growth there.
China remains in somewhat of a holding pattern.
We are in position to take advantage when demand improves and will continue to assess the situation with an eye towards the best long-term shareholder return.
In fiscal '15 we expect to cut operational losses to $50 million for the International segment.
And finally in the Prepared Foods segment our legacy Tyson business reported an adjusted 1.8% return on sales for the fourth quarter.
Volume was basically flat with average pricing of 5.5%.
Weve taken measures to right-size our operations by closing three plants and we're getting our SG&amp;A in line.
We continue to be ROIC focused in our decision making and good allocators of capital for our shareholders.
Looking forward the new Prepared Foods segment including Hillshire is starting 2015 in a good position with the plant closures our capacity utilization is improving to the desired levels and our operations are becoming more efficient.
We recovered pork and beef input pricing but well have to stay on top it as we anticipate a $140 million of incremental raw material cost in 2015 primarily from increased beef prime [ph] and turkey pricing.
With the price increases weve implemented so far pro forma volume has been about flat to a year ago.
Investing in brand building and innovation are vitally important to our branded CPG business and I can assure you that we are not slowing down the Hillshire innovation pipeline.
They are speeding us up.
Were not only launching on-trend consumer driven innovation this year were supporting our past innovation launches a critical part of ensuring long-term success.
In our last quarter of fiscal 14 Hillshire launched the line of Jimmy Dean frozen sandwiches and bowls for lunch and dinner taking the brand beyond breakfast.
This expansion into a new day part has achieved very good incremental distribution of 16 premium priced items thanks to our retail partners.
We have a strong innovative marketing program for this launch including television digital and shopper marketing support.
Another big platform carrying over from 2014 is Hillshire Farm Naturals lunch meat.
It provides the cleaner label consumers are looking for without sacrificing taste and quality.
While we are in the early end of the launch the results are extremely positive.
Its growing incremental purchasers and 80% of consumers who bought the product reported its even better than they expected.
In addition to those two big platforms we are extending and supporting our innovation launches from early in fiscal 14.
In retail were launching new extensions to expand Ball Park Park's Finest franks.
These premium hot dogs deliver a flavor adventure and nothing artificial and they are a growing category.
Were also extending our Hillshire Farm American Craft line of handcrafted small batch smoked sausage with new products featuring authentic ingredients in bold flavors.
And at food service we are extending our Chef Pierre Luxe Layer pies.
Well invest in MAP spending to continue growth in the second year of these success new platforms.
In the back half of the year our focus will be around two new snacking platforms.
We know that shift to snacking is here to stay and believe that we have the right to win with our brands in protein snacking.
One of those launches Hillshire Snacking has been in the test market since Q4 and looks to have a lot of potential delivering incremental sales and growing the category.
You will hear a lot more about innovation at Investor Day on December 10th where you will get to try some of these products.
To wrap up my thoughts on the Prepared Foods segment although its going to take three years to fully realize all of the synergies we expect the segment to earn a 10% to 12% return on sales on a normalized basis after couple of months of working together and really drilling down on the synergy target were more confident than ever that well capture more than $225 million in the first year and more than $500 million by the end of year three.
I need to clarify that not of the synergies will fall within the Prepared Foods segment.
Synergies within shared services for example would be allocated across all the segments but the majority will be in Prepared Foods.
So now that I have given you our outlook for each of the segments lets take a broader look at some reasons we are so optimistic.
First were disciplined in our approach towards managing our business.
The understanding of the consumer-centric demand and overall supply fundamentals allows us to make decisions that are ROIC-based and provide the least volatility and best prospects for long-term growth.
When we assess the demand picture we are uniquely positioned to deliver against changing consumer needs with a portfolio that delivers against every meal occasion throughout the store and across the menu.
Its not just the breadth of our portfolio thats exciting its the depth along with our innovation that delivers against increasing consumer demand for naturally occurring high quality protein snacks and meals.
Consumer behavior at both retail and food service reflect this change.
At retail growth is occurring at the perimeter of the store and in a few frozen categories with two of the biggest being chicken and protein breakfast which favor our portfolio.
Were also entrenched with the leading quick service full service and fast casual restaurants at dressing [ph] this year.
If past consumer behavior remains the same and we believe it will the recent drop in gas prices will put more money back into consumer wallets which will result in increased meals away from home.
So in a macro sense Tyson has the right brand and the right products in the right places for todays consumers.
But lets take a look at some more specifics for fiscal 15 and why we feel so good about it.
With six weeks under our belt its already off to a great start.
We expect adjusted earnings in the range of $3.30 to $3.40 a share.
That's more than 12% growth over fiscal '14.
We'll gain momentum throughout the year as we integrate Hillshire and cash the synergies.
Our beef and pork prices will be supportive of pricing throughout all of our segments.
We'll grow our value added chicken much needed fresh tray pack and full through the fully cooked chicken capacity will be becoming online in the spring.
We have a series of new product launches in the pipeline.
We're investing in brand building and innovation and we're investing disproportionately over depreciation throughout our business as part of our culture of continues improvement.
And lets keep looking ahead in 2016 it's unusual for us to talk about our business more than a year out but we see a lot to be confident about.
We'll be in our second year of capturing synergies and improvements as we maximize the benefits of combining of Tyson and Hillshire.
If chicken supply allows we'll buy more that in the open market add value to it and sell it at a higher margin.
Elevated beef and pork prices should continue to provide an umbrella for chicken pricing and consumption.
We'll have a full year of the new tray-packed and fully cooked capacity in our results.
There should be adequate supply of cattle and hogs with growth coming in the regions where our plants are located.
We'll be generating a lot of cash which well use to pay down debt thereby reducing interest expense.
We'll continue to spend CapEx well above maintenance levels with high value return projects that will continue to set us up well for the future.
The share count at the tangible equity units will drop as the stock price goes up.
We should all be in a position to buy back stock in 2016.
We have leading brands at market share that will allow us to grow faster than our peers and we're not finished growing.
There is more to come.
So yeah we feel really good about 2015 and 2016.
It's Tyson 2.0 and we're a different company.
And finally Id just like to say how pleased I am with the progress of the integration.
Tyson has integrated a lot of companies in its history and I have been involved in many of them and this has been the smoothest I've ever experienced.
We love having an office in Chicago and we are keeping key members of the team there and in many cases expanding their roles.
We have two like-minded groups coming together to unlock the value that we know exists.
[indiscernible] goes in the way people aren't being territorial they're just getting it done.
We've been using the expression one plus one equals three a lot because we see Tyson and Hillshire together as more than the sum of the parts.
So thank you to the team for working so well together.
And now let's go to Dennis for the financial update.
Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
Fiscal 2014 was another record year.
We delivered strong overall operating results and used our cash flow and balance sheet to make a significant acquisition in Hillshire Brands to further deliver and execute our value added strategy for years to come.
As a reminder we acquired Hillshire brands in our final months of fiscal 2014.
This morning it's important for us to demonstrate that legacy Tyson delivered on results we had previously described over the last several earnings call to give you a good base line.
As a result I will be referring to our fiscal '14 adjusted operating income and EPS for legacy Tyson only which exclude one month of Hillshire brands results the equity and debt financing impacts as well as a few other unrelated items.
Please refer to our press release issued earlier this morning for a full reconciliation of our GAAP to adjusted results.
We had a record setting fourth quarter and fiscal 2014.
Fiscal '14 revenues were $37.6 billion representing over 9% growth compared to prior year as we continue to execute our growth strategy as evidenced by increased sales in chicken pork and prepared foods.
Total company return on sales for 2014 was 4.4% and adjusted operating income was more than $1.6 billion representing a 20% increase over fiscal '13.
Our adjusted earnings of $2.94 per share represents a 30% increase over our previous record of $2.26 last year.
We achieved an adjusted pretax return on invested capital of just over 21% compared to the 18.5% for the prior year.
Operating cash flow for 2014 was $1.2 billion which is consistent with our five year average.
We have shown the ability to sustain high levels of cash generation while still funding significant investments in working capital as we grow our business and absorb higher input costs.
We spend $195 million on capital expenditures for the fourth quarter and $632 million for the full fiscal year.
This outpaced our depreciation by $138 million in fiscal '14 as we continued to invest in projects with a focus on delivering high ROIC.
Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2014 was 31.6%.
On an adjusted basis this rate was 33.4%.
Net debt-to-EBITDA for the past 12 months was 4.1 times.
And on a gross debt-to-EBITDA basis this measure was 4.3 times.
On a pro forma basis including Hillshires results of the past 12 months net debt-to-EBITDA was approximately three times.
Including cash of $438 million net debt was $7.7 billion.
Total liquidity was just over $1.6 billion remaining above our goal of $1.2 billion.
Year-to-date net interest expense was $125 million down 9% from a year ago.
Adjusted net interest expense was $98 million representing a 29% decrease from fiscal 2013.
Our adjusted EPS reflects diluted shares outstanding of 356 million similar to last quarter which excludes the impact of the issuance in August of common stock and tangible equity units.
As Donnie pointed out we will close on the sale of our Brazil chicken operations later this quarter and we expect to close the sale of our Mexico chicken operations in the second quarter of fiscal 15.
The sale of both of these operations will result in more than $500 million of additional cash we planned to use to de-lever.
We moved the assets for these operations to assets held for sale in our fiscal 2014 balance sheet.
Now looking forward here are some additional thoughts on 2015.
Please note our accounting cycle results in a 53-week year in fiscal 15 as compared to a 52-week year in fiscal 14.
Accordingly this outlook is based on a 52-week year for comparative purposes.
We expect revenues of approximately $42 billion for fiscal 15 which is 12% growth over fiscal 14.
This is driven primarily by full year of Hillshire brands offset by a reduction from the sale of our Brazil and Mexico chicken operations.
We expect to capture more than $225 million in synergies in fiscal 15 from the integration of Hillshire brands and improvements in our Prepared Foods segment.
Net interest expense should approximate $285 million for fiscal 2015.
We currently estimate our adjusted effective tax rate should be around 35.75%.
CapEx is expected to be $900 million which represents approximately $300 million or 50% more than our depreciation expense as we continue to focus on projects that will create long-term shareholder value.
Based on our share price at the start of fiscal 15 we expect diluted shares Q1 15 to be around 416 million.
This includes the August 2014 issuance of common stock and tangible equity units.
This morning we reported our Board of Directors increased our regular quarterly dividend from $0.075 to $0.10 per share on our Class A common stock payable on December 15.
We expected adjusted EPS in the range of $3.30 to $3.40 representing an increase of over 12% versus fiscal 14.
FY15 is already setting up to be another phenomenal year for sales operating income and EPS.
As we look beyond 15 we expect to realize annual synergies of more than $500 million by fiscal 17.
Were excited about the tremendous value we will realize from our collection of iconic brands and look forward to growing them even further.
We believe return-focused capital allocation and our diversified and balanced portfolio will be the engine to deliver a constant growth year-over-year and we are raising the long-term profitability expectations for our chicken segment to 7% to 9% and for our Prepared Foods segment to 10% to 12%.
Our priorities for the significant cash flows that our operations will continue to generate are for rapid deleveraging and strengthening our balance sheet a continued return-focus on capital allocation to drive long-term shareholder value funding acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while ensuring we maintain plenty of liquidity.
And finally I want to remind you that on this call in 2012 after coming off two years of more than $1 billion in incremental fee cost and facing another incremental $600 million of fiscal 13 we surprised some by saying we would at least hold EPS flat in 13 and grow EPS by around 10% or more in 14 and 15.
This was based on our belief that continued improvements in operating performance in many areas of our company was accelerating and would enable these goals ought to be achieved.
Two years later we are pleased to look back and note that we're delivering with 15% EPS growth in '13 and 30% EPS growth in '14.
But we're not finished our new EPS range calls for at least 12% growth in '15 amidst a game changing acquisition of Hillshire brands.
When achieved this means our three year compounded annual growth rate since the 2012 call would be almost 19% reflecting the efforts of a great team that just keeps getting better.
As we continue the integration process we see the tremendous opportunity that Hillshire business and team brings to the combined company.
As we execute our prepared food strategy we're even more excited about our future as we look to create strong shareholder value along with this acquisition that will be accretive in fiscal '15 and highly accretive in future years.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Robin we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks for the question.
I have one and then a follow-up.
The first one is Donnie; I am hoping you can detail for us some of the synergy targets maybe if you can fill in the blanks how much is expected in COGS versus SG&amp;A some of the pacings of savings anything you think is important for us to know as we model numbers out here?  Okay.
Sure Ken.
So let me start with the types and then we will fill in the gap a little bit around maybe some of the amounts and when they will come.
And I also want to clear up a little bit about what's not in the synergies that we have been talking about so far.
So there is early days there are some low-hanging fruit; things like procurement some of the redundant functions that are eliminated some of the service contracts those kind of things; and longer term things like how we optimize and improve the operational efficiencies and the manufacturing plants how we continue to optimize the network some of the logistic savings.
There will also be some savings we think in trade spend.
So there is several broad categories that we think we will find more and as you know kind of increasing savings in overtime.
Let me give you quick example.
An early example that we'll see this year is freight management.
So we've been able to reduce the rate structure by lowering the rates on some of the Hillshire legacy business and then capturing additional discounts from having a much larger freight base.
We expect that alone to be somewhere in the $15 million to $25 million this fiscal year.
So at this point I feel really good about the $225 million number this year at least that number and at least $500 million as we go forward over the three year target.
So I also want to add that this is pertaining by and large to the Prepared Foods segment.
So if you look at our Prepared Foods segment this next year is roughly an $8 billion business and if you look at that out over the three year synergy number that's about $500 million which is about 6% or so of that.
Now its a little more front-end loaded then you would typically see with just a straight M&amp;A deal but you'll remember we were able to see significant synergy capture in the legacy business because of this acquisition by closing three plants and then moving that product mix around in to more efficient locations.
Now and what's not in these synergy numbers so far is any growth synergies that might come.
We've not included any raw materials synergies.
And what we want to do is to add a bit of clarity about that as we get more deeply into having those discussions.
We've been about two months now working together as a team.
We've built very detailed business cases that we can monitor to deliver these synergies and of course we'll be reporting those out to our investors quarterly.
So going back to one thing just for clarity.
Some of the things like shared service synergies that type of thing will be seeing across all of our segments but the majority of the synergies will reside in the prepared food segment.
That's helpful.
If I can be very quick here on the follow-up.
You mentioned even though next year has an extra week items in your outlook are based on a 52-week year but just to be clear when you talk about that $3.30 to $3.40 in EPS is it fair to assume that range is 53-weeks or is that also 52 and upside of that number from the extra week.
Yeah and that's for 52 weeks.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brett Hundley with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me gentlemen? We can.
Brett hi.
Thank you for taking the question.
And my first question is on the chicken segment.
You guys have -- did -- you first of all you've upped your normalized range and you continue to talk to 10% plus for next year and the theme seems to be as of ways that companies can insulate themselves in 2015 and beyond.
You touched on that a little bit in your prepared remarks but I'm wondering if we can delve back into it.
One of those things that we're hearing in particular is that small bird operators are signing very favorable contracts with QSR guys food service guys for multiple years now.
Wondering if you guys are seeing that in your own business and again going back to the original question the insulation you see in your chicken business going forward.
Yeah certainly we have seen a good price increases in our small bird categories.
As customers looks to ensure supply there but as importantly there are several things that we've been able to do insulate our business a bit number one we're certainly a much more fundamentally sound company than we have been in the past and we continue to improve there.
We continue to invest in our business.
We've improved our revenue by pricing and mix by the way.
So what I mean by that is we've reduced our risk to grain market fluctuations and we've gotten a much better understanding of how the consumer is changing.
Our fresh chicken business is doing very well that's the very good business for us and we can see continued growth there.
As you know our business model tends to do better against the whole bird model than it does against just the UB [ph] parts and so as the small bird business improves and the tray-packed grows and you can't forget the additional value added that we have those are certainly things that insulate our business in the future.
Thank you very much for that.
And then Dennis just I had a follow-up question as it relates to the way that you rather the balance that you try to strike between looking at further M&amp;A targets out there and then debt pay down.
And I guess I'm just curious is there a certain level of debt pay down and then switch [indiscernible] and we can start looking at M&amp;A again.
Can you look at M&amp;A right now? And as a follow on to that question if there was a food service focused target out there in packaged meat do you think there will be any trust issues for you guys going ahead and acquiring something like that.
Okay great series of questions.
The way we look at M&amp;A in our capital structure is that we put together this financing and a capital raise in a manner to ensure that we have investment grade ratings.
Right now net debt-to-EBITDA is around three times.
We're going to throw off better part of a $1 billion in free cash flow we're going to raise another $500 million through the sale of Mexico and Brazil so that will be used to de-lever.
And we see net debt-to-EBITDA trending towards two times by the end of this fiscal year.
That puts us in a pretty good place to re-leverage if we so choose.
We think that we're in a much better position from a step stability standpoint from an earnings and cash flow standpoint.
So we're in a really good position and we're certainly ready and willing to look at M&amp;A to the extent it makes sense for us and it fulfills our growth strategies.
As far as food service goes I'm not sure that I know how to comment on that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Your line is open.
You want to check your mute button your line is open for your question Farha.
I'll move onto the next question Adam  I move on to the next question Adam Samuelson Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe a little more detail on the chicken outlook and as you think about the 7% to 9% normalized range; how should we think about the further processing percent of the mix on a normalized basis going forward.
Clearly thats something thats changed and how you run that business and as a driver to normalized profitability to dampen the cyclicality but as we think about the further process how big of that is that of your earnings mix at this point?  Adam let me add a little bit of color to that too.
I mean we feel that over the next two three four years something like that high beef and pork prices relatively speaking are going to continue to drive demand towards chicken.
Also as the Millennials enter the work force they index very heavy towards chicken.
So we feel like thats a meaningful consumer shift that will allow us to continue to grow our business well into the future so we predict over the next couple of years at least a 3% increase in demand for chicken and if you will go back its been a long time probably since 06 or 07 since weve been able to talk about a structural shift in consumption that would drive that demand.
So then if you look at foundationally a 3% or so demand increase driven both by high competing prices as well as preference to chicken from the Millennials then how do we go to market against that? Well fresh chicken is certainly a great component and that adds incremental margins anything we would do on just pure commodity basis.
By the way about the only commodity part just pure commodity part that we would sell would a frozen leg order internationally and so -- which by the way favors us in terms of increase supply because we can then buy parts that we need on the outside market add value to those through our further processing capabilities.
Let me get to that part of the question last year I noted on a couple of our calls that we were completely tapped out on FD capacity.
Well our two plants that we have been having issues with are completely back up into speed and we have incremental FD capacity there plus we have two more lines that will be coming on-stream in the spring.
And so some of our food service customers would have probably inserted more chicken promotions had there been industry capacity to actually produce the product where were supplying in industry capacity this year so we feel like that will give us an incremental improvement.
Another thing that I can add is that even though through the years our leg quarter volume is down the reasons its down is because weve been able to take advantage of a bit of an incremental shift to more boneless dark meat in our business.
So if you look at the price comparison to boneless dark meat versus boneless skinless fresh meat there are times when boneless dark meat is almost at parity in the marketplace with boneless skinless fresh meat.
So were chasing that new demographic shift too.
So that may have been a much more detail option but we -- answer then you were looking for but we are very optimistic about the demand in our chicken segment.
I appreciate the color.
And then just as a follow up I guess you have got good detail on the demand side.
On the supply side you do kind of own one of the main primary breeders in the industry.
Can you talk about what the Cobb-Vantress order book looks like as you evaluate the outlook for supply growth in particularly 15?  I will tell this.
Over the last couple of years or so most of the primary breeders have experienced some production issues.
It appears that most of those production issues are now correcting themselves and that there will be some incremental supply capability.
Now if you look at the Board placements its going to be at least June July August something like that of next year before there is significant supply and you got to remember the structural issues affecting the supply growth Chicken house is getting built hatcheries needing to be built those types of things.
Our hatchery capacity is about as high -- as an industry our percent capacity is about as high I've seen it a long long time.
So we think that you'll probably see somewhere on the -- in an order of magnitude of about three or so percent growth in supply and I'll tell you the demand for chicken meat that type of supply come into the market and we're looking forward to our buy versus gross strategy define the parts we need and add value to them through our further processing capabilities and continuing to drive our margins.
All right.
Thanks very much.
I'll pass along.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So you had called out in your press release that there was a negative impact from purchasing product I guess in the open market which I think obviously part of your buy versus grow strategy but could you was that a surprise to you that it just rose more rapidly than you expected it to and is there any way you can sort of quantify how much that was above your expectations? Sure Diane sure will.
As you know in the back half of the year we had some fairly significant production issues in our fully value added retail business.
And obviously we were disappointing customers with our build rate and frankly we wanted to make sure that that was the only area of our business where we were disappointing customers and so we made the choice in our tray pack business and I think you are seeing the growth in fresh tray pack with these really high beef 90s ground beef prices at retail really have high beef price.
There has been a shift into fresh tray pack and we just didn't want to disappoint our customers in that part of our business too.
So we made the conscious choice to be out on the market buying breast meat and then using internal breast meat to put in a tray and make sure that we did not disappoint our customers particularly around the Holidays and I'll tell you we did a great job of order fill.
It cost us a little bit of money.
We were out there probably buying I think for the quarter we bought about 100 loads of breast meat a week on average and you know what the market prices were and typically we would have been closer to the 50 55 load a week type range but that was a constant -- a conscious decision.
I am going to guess maybe it cost us $1.5 million $2 million a week something like that for that quarter and it was the right thing to do because we kept those valuable customer relationships and as we bring this new tray pack capacity and this new further processing capacity on-stream will be able to capture that market share back.
So we're positive we did the right thing although it did cost us a little bit of money in the quarter.
Okay.
It sounds like it was more of a production issue rather than you misjudging the market which is that a fair statement.
By and large I believe that's correct yes.
Okay and then I wanted to ask about China where obviously the hopes are that business will get some traction and really start pulling in some earnings especially with what we've seen in terms of growth of the QSR channel but it just -- it's been such a rocky road for those companies there with sort of quality issues sort of one after another.
I guess could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in China and what your customer base is telling you.
I would think about with what happened over the summer with one of the large suppliers there that some of these companies would be knocking loudly on your door looking for supply but that doesn't seem to be the case.
So just talk a little bit about what your customer base is saying there about their proclivity to use you as a supplier? Without being too specific about any individual customer the issue is with these back-to-back food scares demand for poultry is down.
Now I mentioned in our prepared remarks that we remain in a bit of a holding pattern and what that means is that we have acquired land use rights and we have the capabilities to be able to build on those parcels of land whenever we start getting some demand signals that would indicate it's time to do so.
We saw a little bit of light in the [indiscernible] market and then we saw a little bit of light in the market for our pricing but then this last market scare it once again decreased the demand for the product.
So I do think it validates our model that with this safety front from the farm all the way to the retailer or to the food service customer that were on the right track.
As you can well imagine its a bit frustrating when the demand drops like it has and certainly I think our customers understand what we have to deliver in our model and what that can do to help their business and we feel if we get any light at all in the demand for poultry that we will start seeing some improvement.
Have your customers given you any indication of when they expect to see demand snap back? We really havent.
Havent okay.
All right great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Obviously your prepared food long-term operating margin guidance is well above your -- what youve ever realized in legacy Tyson business and obviously is also a bit higher than even what Hillshire has seen in recent years.
I would assume that most of this step up is coming from synergies that you outlined but can you provide us maybe with a little bit more detail frame up of the sensitivity of getting to that 10% to 12% operating profit margin range how much is coming from synergies versus the potential for improved input costs as the hog herd expense and then finally how much sensitivity is coming from some of these new products that youve launched particularly in the lunch category and also in the snack categories? Okay Tim so a couple of things.
Number one if you remember when we closed the three facilities in our prepared foods business that began our ability to take our product mix and put it into the most efficient plan from a production standpoint and from a network optimization standpoint.
So well continue to see that develop.
So if you look out overtime in the synergy capture if you take the traditional call it legacy Tyson business and put it in its normalized range and then you bring the Hillshire business into that and then take the preponderance of the $500 million in synergy and do that math over youre pretty easy in that 10% to 12% return on sales.
Plus then with the efficient MAP spending and new innovation capabilities across the business being able to take food service innovation and have that cross into the retail channel then youre able to see some good growth synergies that will happen overtime and weve not quantified that specifically yet but we will overtime.
And so I think thats kind of the growth algorithm forward to be able to see how were going to get to that 10% to 12%.
Great and just one last follow-up question looking at some of the overlaps in the legacy in Hillshire brands has there been any final decisions of which brands are staying particularly in the breakfast category how should we be thinking about that as we model out that tradition going forward? Yeah well I can tell you that we discontinued any investment at all in day starts or any of the Wright Brand sausage kind of any of the Wright Brand sausage that we were doing all of that obviously will go into Jimmy Dean.
We have been apparently successful though about not losing those slots and weve been able to work with our retailers to be able to slot Jimmy Dean branded products into the slots that previously days starts had and we appreciate our retailers working with us on that.
So we do have a great portfolio of iconic brands and well continue the growth trajectory that theyve been on.
We havent had a chance yet to go through a detail of every brand or every label that we have that work will be done.
We really spent the last three months making sure through the integration that weve got our teams in place that we've got the organizational structure like we wanted going forward that every team member knows what their role and is and that's my thing and we intend just in the next few weeks to be transitioning into the new work structure that we talked about which by the way that is very rapid.
So that's been our overall focus at the beginning and now that we've -- once we get transitioned into the new organization we'll certainly have our brand teams and we've got great capabilities there to look across our business at our brands and understand how to maximize the portfolio.
Great thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Piken.
Your line is open with Cleveland Research.
Yeah hi good morning.
I just wanted to get a little bit more of an update for your expectations for how big of an issue PEDv might be this winter and kind of where the industry is from a Bio-security standpoint as well as the efficacy in some of the vaccines that are being worked on.
Thanks.
Sure we spend a lot of time talking to our producers.
We're sort of in a transition period here.
Typically instances if there are going to be a higher number of the session will begin occurring a little bit later in the fall and winter.
But what we can see so far in talking to our producers who I think have done a tremendous job about increasing Bio-security in their locations I feel confident through our conversations with them that the instances won't be as high in 2015 as they were in '14.
Now what kind of spread I think it's a little early for us to be able to call the kind of spread versus a year ago.
But I will say that the reason I feel so confident about that is this has been one of our better years in pork and so with the Bio-security that we put in place or that our producers have put in place around the PEDv they've also given themselves the benefit in part.
So we're confident that next year shouldn't be as bad.
It's a little too early to call what we think it will be.
As we round it out where you consider hog weights and our projection around sort of our first guess is around the PED and the headcount we're looking for about 2% maybe 3% increase in overall production and certainly beef prices will be able to sustain that in the marketplace and we think hold together pretty good cuts [ph] we're looking forward to a good year in our pork segment.
Okay great.
And then just sort of as a follow-up just kind thinking about pork and really your overall business I mean with the acquisition of Hillshire what should we be thinking about as exports in the future as a percentage of your overall sales for both pork and beef and chicken as well.
Thanks.
Roughly the same.
I don't a significant shift one way or the other.
The individual part may change but I don't see a significant shift in exports.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens Incorporated.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong>  Hi thanks for taking the follow-up.
Hi Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> My question goes to consumer demand you throughout your call you've been very very confident about the outlook for demand in your businesses.
Can you talk about just how the consumers approaching protein and how perhaps retailers are managing inventory differently because we're hearing the largest retailer in the U.S.
has been expanding meat inventories particularly in the frozen areas because they have been seeing very strong demand.
Farha I can't comment about what individual retailers will do but I will say about our business.
So as you know with the real hot beef prices beef volume is down and as we look forward both at retail and at through service we continue to see that flavor in chicken.
We think chicken demand will be up at least 3% next year and I would think again in '16 because we already know that beef supply the beef herd is going to be down another 4% which portends pretty high beef prices again into the future.
So we think that is a strong demand signal for chicken.
And also there is the generational issue that we are beginning to see in the marketplace with Millennials entering the marketplace and they index quite high versus chicken and so we think that is also going to be driving consumer demand for chicken out front.
Does that help? Inc.</span></strong> Yes thats helpful.
And then just as a follow-up as you see the combined Tyson-Hillshire business could you just comment on going to market as a combined company have you identified yet any advantages that you can point to about that combined entity versus each company individually going to market?  Absolutely I mean bringing together these great iconic brands that have very strong meaningful positions in their categories and our ability to take this new innovative and insights-driven innovation and brand building capabilities that are coming into the business with the Hillshire team and being able to work with our customers to be able to drive the categories that drive their growth thats a very meaningful change going forward.
And as you look at the categories particularly at retail that are growing say just for example in frozen -- of course breakfast is growing across refrigerated and frozen but frozen breakfast particularly frozen handheld breakfast is a great category.
Frozen fully cooked chicken is a great category and we certainly have leading positions in both of those categories and great insides about how to continue to drive the growth forward.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks the snacking platform and we look forward to the growth that well see in that snacking platform.
Well also have great brand building capabilities now around our NatureRaised Farms no-antibiotic-ever.
We have seen double digit growth and were just putting together a phenomenal team of insights-driven innovators and brand builders who can continue to take this portfolio of products and grow our customers businesses and meet these consumer needs as they change.
So were very optimistic about how that will drive our future.
Inc.</span></strong> Fantastic and just one last question.
About Mexico we continue to hear disease issues impacting Mexican chicken supplies.
Is that impacting U.S.
chicken availability or have you been able to or the industry have been able to work around that in terms of supply available in the U.S.?  I dont see it impacting the supply available in the U.S.
It does at times impact the demand for export leg quarters.
There are times when demand for export leg quarters from the U.S.
into Mexico is rather strong and then maybe in response to some of the disease issues the market down there becomes saturated as more people bring market -- ducks to the market and it changes a little bit the demand for the exports the leg quarters going down there but thats really about the only impact we see to the U.S.
market for Mexico.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you very much.
And thank you our next question is from Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
So I guess couple of questions how much of the synergies would have taken that legacy Tyson of that 225 into 500?  A bit over 100 somewhere probably between 100 and 150 something like that.
Most of those would have been in the year one.
So lets call it 100 to 150 of the 225 and then going forward its more of the incremental value of the Hillshire Tyson combination.
Great and my second question what is the underlying growth outlook for Hillshire? It seems like from your ex-synergies and ex-obviously legacy Tyson business because it seems like you are just using the $400 million of EBIT from last year and just kind of rolling that forward.
I would be surprising you would planning your business you would expect to have flat growth in the year?  Were optimistic about the growth of the business going forward as we -- so Ken remember our comments around the incremental $140 million or so of raw material pricing comment and thats primarily around beef raw materials in Turkey which frankly the Hillshire Legacy business over indexes towards the beef raw material increase as far as is what the legacy Tyson business would have done.
I think the beef and sausage and hot dogs and that kind of thing.
So we're pricing to recover that and we will particularly as we -- the earnings cadence will be back half driven and so in year one were pricing to recover those raw materials certainly as we move forward and we get beyond that then we'll be able to drive I think fairly significant incremental growth with some effective MAP spending.
So we're very confident in the growth of those brands.
But when your turkey I thought turkey expansion is happening.
I expect that turkey prices to start to roll over the six to nine months is that not what you expect? Our projection for turkey raw material impacting our business will be up in '15 versus '14.
I think Ken it bears repeating that this is going to be a big front half back half story as we overcome the raw material input prices.
So you'll see quite a bit of lift in prepared foods both in overcoming the raw material price increases and the synergies as they build on and the growth in legacy Hillshire.
And my final question is when you talk about the outlook for pork you really didn't touch on it that much but it seems to me that pork supplies are going to be up anywhere from 3% to 6% or so and yet you are expecting pork packet margins to be roughly within those range.
What would make you feel more comfortable that the pork packet margins would be above those ranges given we do have not an expansion of hogs I would have thought that would have been a good thing to you.
So perhaps exports would increase our confidence if we see some movements along that line.
We're pretty comfortable with a 3% or so increase in supply and we think the market will easily absorb that type of supply increase particularly with this really high halo that beef prices are providing but we'll have keep to watching the dollar but we feel comfortable with the export demand for our pork China Russia et cetera.
So I really don't view -- I feel very comfortable in our range might see above it depending on if that develops and we hope it would.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Robert Moscow with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
It's Rachel Nabatian in for Robert Moskow.
So my question is Hi Rachel.
Hey so my question is on chicken productivity.
We like to look at the ratio of chicks placed to egg sit and in the last month this increased over last year's level.
And so I wanted to know if there is something sustainable driving this perhaps an increase in the supply of the hatching spot thats driving a younger average age which is more productive and then as a second part from what I recall last year a good number of eggs were destroyed during transportation because of the colder than usual winter weather.
So I wanted to know if there are any learnings from this and how your company is prepared if the weather this year as bad as it was last year.
Okay.
Let me obviously Ill start with your first one.
Actually our hen age is sub so I'll talk about the physiological productivity first.
The hen age is probably still around 63 65 weeks hatch ability is probably down about a percent from what we've seen over the last quarter or so.
So I don't really see the actually productivity of the flock very differently.
Here's what I see.
We've seen that the industry has not taken the production cuts the cuts in sits replacement that it normally would in previous years and so the reason you are seeing sits in placements above a year ago is because you can't because this quarter integrators could chose not to take the cut that they took last year and so there is an ability to increase this quarter.
I think what you'll see once we get into like December-early January as we get back to about a 1% or so change versus a year ago because you don't have this ability to grow versus a year ago due to the holiday cuts.
Remind me of your second question again I'm sorry.
I just wanted to know if the colder than usual winter last year do you think I feel like a lot of the supply was kind of cut because a lot of the eggs were destroyed during transportation because of the colder weather so just wondering if there are any learnings from that and what do you expect for this year from that end? Got it.
I can tell you were in better shape on propane than we were a year ago.
Youll remember we actually created a kind of a small propane delivery company to keep a lot of our growers in propane.
Were much better prepared for that.
We have looked forward and we do think we have adequate transportation capacity to build all the loads that -- the big thing last year was just the weather and road closures and those types of things.
We can position inventory a little bit differently but if the road is closed the road is closed.
So those types of events are very hard to predict.
I think were in great shape going in to FY15 and feel very good about demand and how weve prepared ourselves to be able to deliver to the consumer.
Got it very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good morning Akshay.
Hey congratulations on the good results.
So my first I just wanted to talk a little bit about the chicken segment and then ask you a question on Hillshire.
So on chicken its really two parts one you havent really delivered a 10% or above margin even on a quarterly basis just to push back.
So can you tell me whats -- how we should think of next year being above 10% and why we should feel confident about that.
Perhaps you can talk about how the quarter is trending right now.
I mean obviously you have the lower grain cost which will help you by about $0.03 a pound.
But your pricing performance in the last couple of quarters hasnt been really that great or price realization so in supply potentially increasing I'm guessing youre going to get back some on pricing your volumes are going to be up a little bit but I just I wanted to see why you have the comfort level to say youre going to earn above a 10% margin on chicken side? My first question and then the second one is you raised your normalized margin range and what weve seen is in the bottom of the cycle when the industry is losing money you tend to do a lot better and at the top of the cycle clearly companies like Pilgrims are doing much better than you.
So can you talk about the bottom end of your range and the comfort level you have with that if and when chicken supply the chicken industry sort of oversupplies the market? Okay so to your first part our pricing has not gone down.
We feel very good about our pricing so far.
If you remember we have a much more vertical like [ph] exposure plus a lot more FC capacity built into the portfolio.
Now remember in the last couple of quarters we had some production issues that have cost us some money so kind of erase that and that we expect least our 50 plus a quarter.
If you remember over the last couple of quarters I mentioned on a call or on a question earlier that we spent some incremental money a couple millions or so a week in tray pack to be able to make sure we didnt disappoint our customers.
So kind of scratch that and then you can get to about 10% on the last quarter there.
Now lets move forward demand up about 3%.
We feel very good about that where is the demand shifting? The demand is shifting towards tray pack which is a great business for us and were very very good at it and if it was to shift towards FC theres just not been enough capacity to fill the order.
We are changing that dynamic this quarter.
We now have full productive capability of all of our existing lines and were going to be bringing two more lines on-stream in the spring.
So on top of all of that if you include the $350 million that well see in incremental grain cost or grain savings than that will help us.
So I think that gives us a lot of confidence.
Going forward well continue to see some operational improvement throughout the year as we continue to advance ourselves in our Lean and Lean Six Sigma.
So we feel good and as I mentioned in the prepared remarks were off to a great start.
So feel really good about it.
Now as to the range you are absolutely correct.
Our goal is to have consistent stable growth and earnings growth.
And so in the summer time when the commodity prices reach their peak you are right we typically dont do as well as some of our competitors but obviously in times when other parts of the year we do much better.
What we want to provide is stable earnings growth for our investors and thats what our model is here to do.
So as we look forward with an increase in demand which we have not seen now for several years if you take the market fluctuations in our buy versus grow strategy if commodity prices get fairly lets call it cheap if you will than we are able to buy that raw material and put it into this further processing value added production model and create incremental margin on that which gives us the confidence in the lower end of our range.
And is that lower end of your range I mean do you expect to hit that when the market is over supplied meaning when commodity companies are losing money would you expect to be at the lower end or could you be below the lower end?  I would say that obviously you are getting into individual scenarios how much money are they losing and that type thing and that I dont know that that is as productive.
So what we can say is we feel very comfortable with the range moving up and well continue to look at the range and if we need to take it higher in the future we will.
But we feel very confident about our ability to deliver and we think there are structural changes in our business that give us the opportunity to continue to deliver against that.
And just one last one on your Prepared Foods business and the commodity outlook you have been behind the 8 ball on your legacy business it seems like for almost two years or something its been a long time youre always catching up on the cost and you are saying Hillshire is also going to be catching up the first half of the year.
Can you just give us little bit more color as to the type of increases you are expecting in fiscal 15 for that cost basket for your Prepared Foods business?  Well the incremental cost year-over-year will be $140 million.
Now if you remember in my prepared remarks I said that in the legacy Tyson business weve recovered that but we got to stay diligent to keep working on our pricing as we move forward to get on top of the incremental raw material inputs that are coming again pretty heavily driven by beef and by turkey pricing.
So we know what we have to do and we know what parts of the business we have to continue to drive that pricing and feel comfortable that this year will be a significant improvement to our previous years.
And might I note too that the legacy Tyson business was not just plagued by the pricing lag it was also plagued by an inefficient supply chain.
And we made corrections at the end of last year to correct those inefficiencies because we had this new Hillshire production network that we can move a lot of those products in and optimize that network.
So that will bring incremental benefit well see a lot of that in fiscal 15.
Okay thank you.
You bet.
So thank you all for joining us on the call today.
We always appreciate your interest in our business.
Follow up with John throughout the rest of the day.
And I want to wish you all a very happy Thanksgiving.
Thank you.
And thank you.
This does conclude todays call.
You may disconnect your lines.
And have a great day.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect.
All lines have been placed on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of todays conference.
[Operator Instructions] And now Id like to turn conference over to Mr.
Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods conference call for the First Quarter of the 2015 Fiscal Year.
On today's call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read today's press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
Following our prepared remarks well go to Q&amp;A.
To ensure we get to as many of you as possible please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in the queue for any additional questions.
Because our Annual Meeting of Shareholders takes place this morning we will need to stay on schedule by ending Q&amp;A at the top of the hour.
We hope to get to all of your questions but we will have to put a hard stop on the call to get to the Shareholders Meeting on time.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Thanks to all of you for joining us today.
Q1 was another great quarter with adjusted earnings of $0.77 a share.
Sales were a record $10.8 billion up 23% from last year.
Adjusted operating income was a record $564 million which is a 37% improvement year-over-year.
Our overall adjusted operating margin was 5.2% and we reduced debt by $650 million in the quarter.
We realized $60 million of synergies in Q1 and we are on pace to exceed $225 million in synergies for the fiscal year in operational improvements procurements manufacturing and logistics and organizational change.
We are off to a fast start and we are confident in our ability to achieve at least the $500 million target set for the end of fiscal 2017.
Lets take a look at the operating segment.
In Q1 the Chicken segment reporter a record 12.6% return on sales with volume up 3.1% and average pricing up 1.5%.
Industry dollar growth for retail fresh chicken was up 8% and our growth was in step with the overall strong industry growth.
We maintained the number one branded share in fresh individually frozen and Cornish chicken and demand is very strong especially for fresh tray pack.
In fact we are still short of supply in tray pack.
Now the food service industry saw much needed growth in our fiscal Q1 and I am pleased to say that Tysons chicken sales growth in food service was more than double that of the restaurant industry on a sale dollar basis.
The production issues in two of our value added chicken plants last year are resolved and all of our lines are operational.
We are now working to build the pipeline and fulfill the pent-up demand.
By the end of Q1 we had regained a little over 2 share points and we will continue to expand our distribution and regain the loss share in Tysons frozen cooked chicken.
USDA indicates an increase in production of 3% this fiscal year.
Although other more recent data might indicate a greater increase in supply we believe demand will more than keep pace with a strong demand a shift to a more profitable mix strong pricing and increased further processing capacity we now think our return on sales will be above 11% for the remainder of the year.
There looks to be more chicken supply coming in 2016 as well and we are working on plans to capitalize on it.
We created our buy versus growth strategy for this scenario and we will see it -- and we see it as an opportunity to value up.
The Beef segment was just under breakeven for the quarter.
Volume was down 3.7% with average pricing up nearly 21% continued record high beef prices at retail has caused a shift in consumption away from beef towards other proteins leading to margin compression in our Beef business.
Despite marginal losses we improved our position relative to industry indexes.
We have adjusted our slaughter to recover margins and have already seen improvement in Q2.
However the segment will continue to be challenged in the quarter.
Ill hurry on to say that the pressure in our Beef segment has been more than offset by benefits we see from the balance of our portfolio.
Our Pork segment had a 7.9% return on sales in the first quarter.
Volume was up 1% while average pricing increased 7% indicating strong demand.
We expect further recovery from the PED virus and expect industry hog supplies to increase around 2% to 3% in fiscal 15.
It should be another good year for the pork segment and we expect results similar to last years.
International segment have an operating loss of $14 million which was half of the loss compared to Q1 of 14.
The sale of our business in Brazil was finalized in Q1 and we expect the sale of our Mexico assets to be completed by the end of March.
There is still a tough demand environment in China.
Port pricing has been pressured which also effects chicken.
Wholesale poultry prices are down 10% since September and are now only about 2% above the trough we saw back in January of 14.
We will continue in a holding pattern with our operations in China as we await for the demand to improve.
Regarding our International export lower pricing has essentially offset the appreciation in the U.S.
dollar allowing us to maintain our volume so far this year.
Our primary concern about exports is coming from ongoing interruptions at West Coast ports which is pressuring logistics that could eventually affect livestock producers if the situation isnt resolved soon.
Now moving on to Prepared Foods the segment had an adjusted 5.2% return on sales for the first quarter.
With the Hillshire Brands integration volume was up nearly 90% and average pricing was up 24%.
On a pro forma basis we had an unfavorable input cost impact of $83 million largely offset by synergy capture in pricing.
We have streamlined our operation in Prepared Foods by closing plants improving capacity utilization as we continued to tightly manage costs invest in our brands and drive our growth agenda.
The integration is going very well and it didnt take us long to realize that we are much stronger together.
Lets use category captaincies as an example strategic retail customers see the benefit of leveraging our products capabilities and expertise to grow their business and since combining Tyson and Hillshire we have added 11 category captaincies for a total of 76 indicating our customers trust our insights and partnership in leading category growth decisions.
So in terms of macro trends affecting the industry I would like to address our perspective on the consumer marketplace and how we are capitalizing on shifting demand to grow our business and our customers businesses.
In the past quarter consumer confidence lower gas prices and unemployment data were tailwinds that we expect will continue to favor foods spending in the New Year.
But pressures like long-term unemployment and limited wage growth still away on a lot of people.
We will talk about this situation before as the bifurcated consumer or the barbell economy and it factors into consumer spending habits which in part drive our innovation agenda.
We continue to see consumers moving from red meat to poultry and 68% say the cost of red meat is the reason their making the shift.
However beef prices have remained at record level because demand has been so strong among people who can afford it.
Chicken is the only protein to grow annual consumption during the past four years.
Lower fuel prices appear to have benefit food purchases both at grocery and food service mainly at QSR and casual dining which saw traffic growth in our Q1 for the first time since the recession.
There are also positive growths in on-site food service such as lodging deli and healthcare where we have a strong presence.
If oil gas prices continue into the summer food service could see even more recovery.
Our innovation pipeline is grounded in a strong understanding of these market dynamics coupled with deep consumer insights.
As you heard at Investor Day we are gearing up for two new product platform launches for the back half of the year Hillshire Snacking and Ballpark jerky.
This is an addition to our ongoing new product news that happens throughout the year.
We grew dollar sales in eight of nine tracked categories in Q1 behind pricing but also supported by strong distribution and new products.
We will continue to build on this momentum with our advantage portfolio through brand building and innovation.
We have a lot to be excited about Tyson Foods Q1 was a great quarter.
While I dont expect the second quarter to be as good as Q1 because its typically our most difficult I do expect it to be better than Q2 of last year.
We are reiterating our guidance of adjusted earnings in the range of $3.30 to $3.40 a share with results weighted towards the back half of the year.
We have a balanced diversified business model and a focus growth agenda that give me confidence that not only can we handle whatever challenges are ahead we are going to thrive.
And now lets go to Dennis for the financial updates.
Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
This morning I will be referring to our first quarter adjusted operating income and EPS.
Please refer to our press release issued earlier this morning for a full reconciliation of our GAAP to adjusted results.
Fiscal 2015 is off to a great start.
With record sales operating income and operating cash flows we were able to reduced debt by $650 million.
First quarter revenues were $10.8 billion representing over 23% growth compared to a year ago as we continue to execute our growth strategy as evidenced by increased sales of Chicken Beef Pork and Prepared Foods.
Total company adjusted return on sales for the quarter was 5.2% and adjusted operating income was $534 million representing a 37% increase over Q1 of 14.
Our adjusted earnings of $0.77 per share represents a 7% increase over a strong comparative period a year ago.
We had record operating cash flow for the first quarter at $812 million and we spend $231 million on capital expenditures.
This outpaced our depreciation by $83 million as we continue to invest in projects with a focus on delivering high ROIC.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was 28.8%.
On an adjusted basis this rate was 34.8%.
Net debt to EBITDA for the past 12 months was 3.5 times and on a gross debt to EBITDA basis this measure was 3.7 times.
On a pro forma basis including Hillshire's results for the past 12 months net debt to EBITDA was 2.7 times on an adjusted basis.
Including cash of $381 million net debt was $7.1 billion.
Total liquidity was just over $1.6 billion remaining above our goal of $1.2 billion.
Net interest expense was $75 million during the first quarter.
For the quarter our diluted shares outstanding were $416 million.
As Donnie pointed out we closed on the sale of our Brazil Chicken operations during the first quarter.
As a result of the sale we received proceeds of $130 million with additional proceeds expected in the second quarter relating to the working capital adjustment.
The sale of our Mexico operations is expected to close in the second quarter.
Now looking forward here are some additional thoughts on 2015.
Please note our accounting cycle results in a 53-week year in fiscal 15 as compared to a 52-week year in fiscal 2014.
Accordingly this outlook is based on a 52-week year to make a better year-over-year comparisons.
We expect revenues of approximately $42 billion for fiscal 2015 which is 12% growth over fiscal 2014.
This was driven primarily by a full year of Hillshire brands results offset by a reduction from the sale of our Brazil and Mexico Chicken operations.
We expect to capture more than $225 million in fiscal 15 from our Prepared Foods profit improvement initiatives and Hillshire brand synergies.
Net interest expense should approximate $280 million for fiscal 2015.
We currently estimate our adjusted effective tax rate to be around 35.5%.
CapEx is expected to be $900 million which represents approximately $300 million or 50% more than our depreciation expense as we continue to focus on projects that will create long-term shareholder value.
Based on our average share price in Q1 we expect our diluted shares in Q2 to remain around $416 million prior to considering any further changes in our stock price which would impact the dilution from our tangible equity units.
Our priorities for the significant cash flows that our operations will continue to generate are for rapid deleveraging and strengthening our balance sheet a continued focus on disciplined capital allocation to drive long-term shareholder value and debt capacity to fund acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies and to return cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while ensuring we maintain plenty of liquidity.
We have a lot of momentum going in fiscal 15 with the addition of the Hillshire business team.
We are pleased with our first quarter results delivering 7% EPS growth over Q1 of fiscal 14.
Our Q2 should beat last year but likely will be less than Q1 due to a typical seasonality and the third and fourth quarters are expected to be really strong.
As we continue to capture synergies from combining two great businesses we are confident we will deliver adjusted EPS within our range of $3.30 to $3.40 for fiscal 15 which represents an increase of over 12% compared to fiscal 2014.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Jane we are ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You noted that chicken margins are expected to be above 11% for the remainder of the year and we've seen what's going on with supply growth.
It seems to be inching up a little bit.
What gives you confidence in that Chicken segment guidance? So David so we modeled our 15 Chicken performance using several models and Im very confident in our ability to deliver15.
So if you take advantage -- if you look at not only our brand leadership in fully cooked and in the fresh I have and Cornish categories at retail plus our leadership in food service.
Weve got a great broad balance portfolio.
On top of that weve made a lot of improvements in our sales mix.
I mentioned in our prepared remarks that weve got great growth in tray pack.
We are going to have the FT capacity in place to be able to take advantage of food processing business that we think will come our way in food service.
Weve got a great innovation pipeline.
Weve made a lot of operational improvements and we will continue to see benefit from our capital and investment.
So if you look at that balanced portfolio our pricing structure and these other factors well deliver 15.
One question on the food service side.
We're seeing a lot of demand not just for protein but increasingly there are players out there that want to upgrade the protein in some ways assure consumers that it's all-natural.
Maybe down the road antibiotic-free chicken will be a bigger thing.
But is there an opportunity for Tyson with that? How big of a deal could that evolution or perhaps even a margin constraint -- could that be having to shift to perhaps a more natural product as demand shifts? Thanks.
Thats a great question.
It appeals frankly both our food service and retail to a different consumer segment than what is broadly addressed by most of our portfolio today which is great news for us.
Weve got a tremendous innovation engine and I think with our capabilities in our discovery center and our ability to drive innovation I think we are advantaged in the ability to capture that.
I would also add that our live production team is about as good as there is in the industry when you look at benchmarking they are actually.
When you look at benchmarking they are best in the industry which I think gives us an advantage in what might be considered a little bit more challenging live production environment.
So I feel good about our opportunity to continue to capture on that in the future.
Our NAE line which we launched what May a year ago or little further we doubled it since the launch and our growth continues.
We are adding more and we are adding about 100 000 birds a week to that business next month.
So we continue to see growth and we continue to use our supply chain to fill those needs.
Thank you.
Sure.
Im sorry.
You ready for the next question? Yes we are.
I apologize.
We have a question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the chicken margins I think as far as I can tell the best I can remember in the history.
Is that accurate? Yes.
So my question I am going to start with to -- I will start with its Hillshire-related say acquisition-related but its more of an sort of outlook on pork right.
So supply expected to increase on pork or the hog prices have come down.
The retail values have come down.
Presumably that should help a value-added pork business.
So one am I thinking of that generally correctly? And two what are the implications of that on your segment margins for prepared foods which you maintained your guidance as far as I can tell? So thats my first question.
I have a follow-up.
Okay.
So two things you should expect.
Number one with increased supply that will likely also improve besides the prepared foods piece which would come later maybe Q4 Q1 Q2 thats -- Q1 Q2 of '16 that I think you should expect improvement in the back half in our Pork segment.
So I think there we will have a double advantage if you will inside of our portfolio.
But I would say you are absolutely thinking about it right about in improvement in the raw material structure underneath our Prepared Foods business.
And at the retail brands we are using our marketing support to position ourselves very well to take advantage of that.
But does it mean for your -- I mean so how should we think of your guidance in relation to that? Okay.
Got it.
So as we mentioned on the call Q2 is always a bit challenging and we kind of made the right comments about that.
We will see the improvements back-half loaded.
You will see the run rate in Prepared Foods accelerating through the year and taking that momentum into '16.
And so its still early in the year so we are maintaining our current guidance at $3.30 to $3.40 but there is some things that play that could certainly advantage that.
Okay.
And then on chicken this quarter obviously very good especially given that the spot margin sequentially declined yours expanded so your advantage relative to spot expanded as well.
So in light of that youve obviously commented on the Analyst Day that if and when the cycle turns you will be 500 basis points above on margins.
So can you just conceptionally help us understand why your business today is in a position to deliver those type of margins even if the industry is not making money? So as we talked about in New York we have a very balanced portfolio between the bird classes the tray pack size small bird big bird and the other sizes.
So that tells coupled with the pricing structures that weve worked with our customers on in the last couple of years.
So now we have this balanced portfolio.
Weve got a very good balance of pricing structures and mechanism some that are tied to the market some that arent.
And remember we correlate a lot closer to the whole bird market values than we do to breast meat values.
Now one other thing that might help is we do have and I am going to say X percent of our portfolio that is subject to I will call it market pricing.
But we also have X percent of our portfolio thats very balanced to that that we found on the outside market.
So when the price goes down only the portion of our portfolio that we sell based on market prices.
We did a commensurate benefit in the different part of the portfolio from the lower cost of buying that raw material.
And hey add on top of that we have a great brand presence number one at retail food -- which we are rebuilding that category and we are number one is fresh tray pack we are number one is [indiscernible] we are number one in Cornish.
We have a leading brand in foodservice.
So you add all of that together and our buy versus grow strategy positions us well to take advantage of this.
Great.
I will pass it on.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks Donnie.
I think youve covered what happens when supply expands but is it fair to say that the access that came out and the industry data were above your expectations because I seem to remember at the Analyst Day you saying that you dont think the 3% growth would continue.
Is that fair to say? That is fair to say yes.
Okay.
What I was expecting was we had that gap because people took us last season that they didnt take this season and I expected that to level off after January and that has not happened.
So that 3% type number has continued.
Okay.
And whole bird prices to your point have done nothing but go up.
Youve seen some fluctuation in commodity fresh meat parts.
Is there -- what would stop that forward movement in whole bird prices? I always get concerned about the supply growing.
You seem to think that the demand is going to be strong enough to offset all of it.
But is 3% access just not enough to offset that forward momentum in whole bird? Frankly weve model past that and still with our pricing structures and the balance of how we go to market we are still in good shape as supply increases above what a 3% access might indicate.
Our buy versus grow strategy is we care a lot more about how much chicken we sell than how much we grow.
And if you look at the last three weeks we are over a 1 billion slaughter pounds.
So since the beginning of the year slaughter has increased something on the order of 7%.
And if you look at particularly front half I think wing standards and breast meat thats up 15%.
So there is every indication that demand is more going to offset the supply increases.
Okay.
We are all ended is on corn prices obviously very benign and your cost structure is getting better because of that.
Lets say corn I am sure youve been asked this question before but lets say if we get another increase in corn and it goes up to $6 instead of $4 how much of that is contracted with your customers as a pass-through? I seem to remember it being a pretty large number now.
Yes.
We have we call those fixed margin contracts and we have and I wont necessarily mention the bird types but we are having particularly two of our classes of business.
We have extended those types of contracts fairly dramatically so that that raw material cost doesnt impact our margins.
Now in super high commodity price margins like maybe we saw last summer we gave up a little bit we know that but we want to have stable consistent earnings growth which we are displaying now and using our buy versus grow strategy our pricing models and certainly our innovative capability to continue to perform well for our customers.
Thats how we are going to continue to stable earnings growth.
So that commodity benefit that you are talking about this year thats gross isnt it thats not net of what you have passed back to customers or is it net? Yes thats correct.
Its the changing like $400 million I think.
We originally when we went into the year thought we would have about $450 million plus maybe benefit.
And so far its only about $400 million but that is in our cost of goods.
And frankly some of that does weak in pricing.
Can you say how much? No.
Okay.
I will make my own judgment.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning everyone.
Hey Adam.
So question in Prepared Foods I'm just trying to think about how -- now that we have a four quarter of Hillshire under our belt how we can evaluate that kind of combined pro forma performance.
Last year your Prepared Foods segmented $60 million of profit.
Hillshire on a GAAP basis did $116 million.
And you talk about $60 million of synergy capture.
Is that synergy capture number a run rate or realize in the quarter? And so Im just trying to think about that $132 million pro forma versus the $111 million realized and synergy is less the fire and other material inflation help us bridge some of the performance for the pro forma value? Good question.
So in the Prepared Foods segment the raw material impact was $83 million.
The synergy capture was captured in Q1.
It's not a run rate.
It's captured in Q1.
And I think $55 million of the $60 million was in the Prepared Foods segment.
So think about it this way in the first half -- I think we mentioned this at Investor Day that we typically in Hillshire locked in supply -- raw material supply for about six months.
So we've got -- call it in our Q1 we've got that pretty high cost raw material in the summertime in the cost of goods.
It's going to be about $140 million or so impact in the front half of our fiscal year but then we get relief in the back half of the fiscal year.
So another part of the improvement that we saw some in Q1 it will get more prevalent in subsequent quarters is we closed these plants and we've taken back production and put it into other plants to increase our capacity utilization.
Demand is up.
Demand has been strong.
All of our brands -- I mentioned we grew sales in eight of nine categories and share in five of nine categories.
We connect -- we need to look at so.
I feel very good about our building momentum out forward.
Okay.
Does that help? It does.
And maybe as a follow-on on the synergies I mean as youre kind of think about where youre today.
$60 million is realized in the December quarter.
What annualized run rate are you at today? Where in the $220 million -- in excess of $225 million what areas are driving the upside in the 15 plan relative to what you thought a few months ago? And any thoughts moving forward I know you talked about things that are still not in the $500 million plus number internal raw material procurement and higher faster organic growth.
Any thoughts on putting a final point on those buckets at this point? So Ill start at the back and work my way to the front.
Its a bit too early although we have teams now that are beginning to action projects that will affect us in 16 and 17.
So were coming into a bit more clarity but weve still got open project.
Were still building projects that will affect us in 16 and 17.
So its just a little bit too early for us to comment on that.
On 15 the operational improvements in the legacy Prepared Foods business were a bit more than we were expecting.
They came a little earlier.
And frankly weve got some purchasing synergies in Q1 that we were expecting to see a little bit to see until probably maybe Q2 or Q3.
So I feel comfortable well be better than the $225 million.
Its a little too early to call because the over delivery in Q1 which really pull in forward some benefit that we had originally expected to get in Q2.
So I hope that helps.
Very helpful.
I will pass it along.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks for the question.
I just wanted to follow up on what Adam was asking because -- let's say you kind of want to normalize year-on-year.
Last year you had -- just for Hillshire $1 billion in revenue -- $1.1 billion and $139 million in EBIT.
This year if you take out the synergies and you take out the $83 million in cost you are at exactly the same EBIT $139 million and youve added a significant number of revenues right whether you want to look at it as Tyson adding onto Hillshire or Hillshire adding on to Tyson.
I know there is D&amp;A and there are some moving pieces but I just don't see how you can add that many revenues of $1.2 billion and not have EBIT go up a little more even if you exclude all those costs in synergies.
You understand what I am saying? If not I can clear it up after the call.
Im just having a hard time seeing why this margin wasnt higher? Ken let me give you one point to bear in mind.
Incremental depreciation and amortization year-over-year for Hillshire because of the step-up around purchase price accounting is more than $40 million.
So part of it is in that story.
Yeah.
Even though I think youre right.
It's probably going to take a long time -- why don't we just take this one off-line.
Okay.
Well do it offline.
I appreciate D&amp;As part of it.
Prepared Foods is front-loaded raw material cost that well recover in the back half and well take.
The margin improvement will improve sequentially quarter-over-quarter through our year and take that momentum then into 16.
So were very optimistic about start -- how we started and have some possible tailwinds to make and maybe even a little better than were calling it today.
Okay.
So 1Q didn't really act different than your expectations.
Is that fair? No no no.
Actually our Q1 was slightly over planned not by much but it was slightly over planned.
Okay.
And then let me shift subjects and Donnie how are you thinking about export dynamics today given where the dollar is trading.
I might have expected some additional pressure on the back half of the bird by now.
Are you surprised leg quarters are hanging in there? Are you modeling in some weakness going forward? Im just curious what you guys are looking for down the road? Sure.
So two things Im concerned about -- no hey not -- don't be taken when I use the word concern that it changes our guidance in anyway.
But this West Coast port slowdown is now starting to back up a little bit in meat.
Were starting to see some cuts like plates and that type of thing going into grinding meat.
Were not there yet but were starting to see ground beef products has dropped a little bit.
Now were getting some fairly encouraging news release we did in the front end of the week about a possible resolution.
But that is going to be a little bit of a logistics of evil probably for the next one to six weeks two months something like that.
Now I dont see that frankly impacting our margins because as the cutout drops that will give -- those are spread businesses beef pork or spread businesses and that will frankly move into livestock.
So now if you look at chicken that kind of picture on beef and pork.
If you look at chicken we are starting to see softness in jumbo leg quarters.
Weve got the banned -- China has banned now because they have problems on the West Coast.
We have had in Europe.
Russia is not taking any U.S.
leg quarters.
And so there has been a repositioning of leg quarter movement.
The small and medium prices really havent changed very much.
They are still hanging around this 40-ish stock number but recent trade has been jumbo leg quarters for that plus down period probably slightly below $0.30 a pound.
So we have all that factored into what were talking about.
And we dramatically reduced our exposure to leg quarters.
And there are some internal offsets in -- like the fuel prices that we experienced in our live production area and feed hall that kind of thing.
First we dramatically increased our production in boneless dark meat.
And thats the category thats growing both at food service and retail.
So we continue to shift our leg quarter mix into boneless category.
Hope thats a pretty good color.
It is.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Tim Ramey with Pivotal Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thanks for the opportunity.
Donnie thinking back at -- over the last several years I remember lots of commentary on high gas prices and weak consumer picture on QSR demand and you touched on that? But I expected a little more enthusiasm maybe for the outlook on QSR's? I know I sure think that there's a lot of incremental spending that's going to shift out of gas tanks and into breakfast various QSR revenues? What are your thoughts on that? So seeing casual actually grow traffic for the first time since the recession is a very good sign.
You are right.
QSR is leading the growth.
Frankly if you take out one large QSR QSR grew by 3.6%.
So there's a lot in that.
It's interesting to note in food service that you're seeing the younger brands outperform the more mature brands.
So that's an interesting dynamic that we'll be able to take advantage of.
So one other thing I mentioned off-site.
We have a very strong presence in deli and retail and that business is very very strong.
We are seeing like 3.5% growth in deli.
You are seeing lodging and these other off-site categories grow by 3.5% so where we have by the way a very strong presence.
So were very optimistic about that -- we don't have that QSR promotional order today but we're in a lot of conversations.
And we still think that ground beef prices are going to be relatively high and food services going to want to promote chicken this year so we feel really good.
By the way that also plays a bit to our advantage in our buy versus grow strategy.
And we've got -- we'll have four incremental FP lines in production by late spring.
So we're ready.
Last year we gave up some promotions because we just didn't have the capacity to do them.
This year we can do them.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on beef it sounds like you had adjusted slaughter rates down a little bit.
Did these catch you off guard in the first quarter was that -- were you a little out of position operating at too high of an operating rate or and in other words again I would normally expect 2Q to be worse than Q1 and I was surprise that you actually loss money in the Q1? Yeah.
I wouldnt say were out of position I would say that cattle availability while it was in our area.
Cattle continues to move to the Midwest to be fade just because of the freight rates that it takes to get the corn outside of the corn belt.
So cattle continue to move toward us.
I think probably we put some cattle forward.
When I look it and the reason I say that when I look at how quickly cattle prices responded to market signals in Q1 it told me they were in pretty strong demand.
And now when you look at this last cattle on a feed report it indicates to me that some cattle did get pushed forward which is probably going to help us in the latter part of Q2 and certainly going into the spring.
And the front half is always weaker than the back half and we tend to look at our cattle business not quarter-to-quarter but throughout the season.
So it may have moved a month or two versus what we would have thought but we are well -- we were well-positioned to take advantage of it.
I mentioned our index has improved versus we keep a index of our performance versus the USDA numbers and we did improve.
So thats what Im looking for.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On two questions the first Donnie you had highlighted that tight supplies of pork and beef are supporting demand for chicken? Kind of going forward as pork becomes more available? How much pressure do you think that will put on chicken and is there any particular sector it will have more of an impact versus the last? For expense reason it will put some.
But typically if you look at the per capita consumption data per capita consumption of pork is relatively flat and we export about 25% of the pork that we produce.
Thats little bit of concern on the West Coast now.
But in general thats the global demand for proteins for pork particularly continues to grow and so we'll export more.
And like I said the prices have dropped to offset the increase in the value of the dollar.
So it's not so much a pork versus chicken story as it is a beef versus chicken story and beef prices are going to remain relatively high.
Plus don't forget as pork prices drop in our portfolio we get an offsetting benefit or an additional benefit in Prepared Foods that might offset any softness in chicken prices for example that type of thing.
Thats helpful.
And going on to Prepared Food youve said that at this year you expect $225 million or so in synergies and over three years $500 million.
Could you just help bridge the $225 million to $500 million? Kind of key buckets that youre looking for in terms of where those cost savings are going to come from? There is four buckets operational improvements in Prepared Foods that largely come in fiscal 15.
Procurement frankly we would get some benefit in 15 but more benefit as we get out into 16 and 17 and then well also begin to pickup additional synergies in manufacturing and logistics as we get the network built out and that type thing.
For this year and I think we said this in New York that were looking for about a $140 million in the operational improvement bucket in 15 $40 million in procurement $25 million in the plans and in logistics and then $20 million from kind of G&amp;A savings if you will.
If you move forward you get more and more savings in procurement you get more savings in manufacturing and logistics and network optimization.
And then into 16 and 17 those buckets begin taking the majority of the synergy versus the initial legacy Prepared Food changes in 15.
Does that help? Thats very helpful.
Thank you.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Brett Hundley with BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
I had a question Donnie on Prepared Foods.
I just want to understand more of the competitive dynamic within packaged meat right now what you are seeing and hearing? And really what I'm getting at here is as some of these laws come off I want to try and understand Tyson's ability to drive margin along side its innovation schedule if that makes sense? So just wanted to see what you're hearing and seeing on the competitive dynamic front within packaged meat? Sure.
So you're right.
We will be able to continue to drive our profitability.
And the real reason behind that is were continuing to support the innovation that we have in the marketplace today.
Were building for more innovation in the back half of our year and kind of extending into some other categories so that's going to continue to help.
And I believe what we have seen and as we have entered the year we're exactly on plan with where we thought we would be.
And by the way we're going to adjust the marketing support a little bit for our anytime launch.
Velocity is not exactly where we wanted to be.
Their distribution is great but we need to tune up velocity there which will happen in the back half of the year.
And were in -- I think great shape in our categories and the categories are very strong.
So if you add our positioning how we will adjust math spending throughout the year to keep a good balance between volume and profit and then we're positioning ourselves because we have a pretty good feel for what the raw material will do.
We're positioning ourselves to maintain that margin growth and accelerate through this quarter and then accelerate it in the back half of the year.
Your point about the categories being in such good shape as they are.
We have advantaged brands and advantaged categories and that is very good for the long-term potential.
Both are Prepared Foods and our chicken business.
Okay.
And you just offered me a segue over to back to chicken rather.
It's nice to hear you guys that we are seeing here recently and your confidence in being able to not only perform but take your expectations higher.
And you talk about the strong demand.
Ive seen you quoted in an article where you said that higher beef prices were maybe driving a 3% improvement in chicken demand.
We understand there is a very large QSR out there buying chicken for an H1 Promo.
And I suppose that this demand step up can help eat its way through these extra supplies that we are seeing.
But you're going to continue to see that supply growth with where we see smooth pork data.
That portends a 3% or higher headcount you have weights that had been running higher.
And so as we get past summer when maybe some of this demand comes off a little bit we worry a little bit about that supply demand pricing dynamic.
And so Id love for you to just address as we move 15 into 16 here what protects you again better than the rest.
I know you said some things regarding that.
But also more so I don't want to put you on the spot with 2016.
But your confidence alongside chicken with the rest of your business in this company being able to drive earnings growth in years ahead not just 2015 but beyond that I appreciate it? Sure.
So let's talk about four components.
And I don't disagree that recent data -- I agree with you recent data would indicate that supply will be higher in the year.
And remember we don't really care how much we grow we care how much we sell.
And so we will manage our production based on our forecasted demand.
We balance to the nearest whole bird increment in whatever size that is and then our buy versus grow strategy puts us in a position to buy raw materials that are out of balance which doesn't leave us stranded with parts who maybe having -- maybe an excess that type thing.
So that's kind of the general framework but on top of that think about this explosive growth in tray pack.
And we are a tremendous tray pack supplier.
We're adding capacity and we're going to be unencumbered in our growth in tray pack.
And tray pack -- fresh tray pack at retail is really benefiting from high retail beef prices.
So that -- plus we are increasing our further processing capability to be able to take advantage of growth both in retail frozen fully cooked as we take this great innovation engine and grow that category with new news plus at food services the food-service operators want to grow there.
We have a very balanced and broad portfolio.
We have a good balance between the bird sizes the tray packs and small bird and all those things.
Plus you take our pricing structures which we have a blend in summer based on the markets.
Some are based on raw materials.
But what we've done is established a way to protect our margins and grow our customers business using our great service and our great innovative capability which is very valuable to them.
And they frankly don't get anything like it from anyone else.
Add on top of that we've continue to spend pretty strong against our chicken business and we continue to be more and more efficient.
One quick case in point when we saw our production issue in our fully cooked business we actually added an incremental million pounds a week of capacity to that -- to one of those locations and created an even more efficient operation.
So that will pay off in the future.
So if you take a blend of the consumer benefits that we can take advantage of with our portfolio.
And then the customer who depends on us for innovation quality service and those components and the balance of our portfolio on top of our buy versus grow strategy it's a winning combination.
And it stabilizes our earnings and that's why we took 15 up.
And we feel very strong about 16 because the same dynamics will be in play.
All right.
Thanks Donnie.
Our next question is from Tim Tiberio with Miller Tabak.
Your line is open.
Tim Tiberio your line is open.
Good morning.
And thanks for taking my question.
My first question is around your buy versus grow strategy.
Now that supply growth seems to be a little bit ahead of your initial expectations.
Can you give us an update of what percentage you are buying in the second quarter and how much you see that growing year-over-year in fiscal 2015? Ill give a general answer.
I dont want to be very specific.
The amount we buy will be balanced against the amount that of our other pricing that has market exposure.
So we are very balanced there kind of gives us an internal hedge plus there are some parts of our business where I try to act a smaller bird.
We have to grow the bird.
In other part of the business we dont.
And so the way we are set up we think we have a very good demand picture and we see demand very strong out in front.
And we have build our supply chain to be able to buy raw material to fill that demand.
Well buy put it in our further processing plants and fill the demand Great.
My second question I may have missed this earlier.
Have you set a target for full year debt reduction in 2015? It seems like thats a key component of potentially driving accretive earnings power from 15 into 16? Sure Tim.
We are expecting at least $1.2 billion maybe a little bit more.
Perfect.
Thanks for your time.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Congratulations on your quarter.
Thanks.
I just wanted to ask about -- I think it's pretty widely observed that 15 is going to be a good year but I am sort of getting the sense from clients that I talked to that it all falls apart in 16.
And so I just wanted to get to this point about the QSR a nice idea go ahead.
Chicken purchases are durable goods.
I mean to me I look at it and say well if gas prices are down and still low I mean maybe they move a little bit higher.
But I don't think anybody is predicting that they go back to where they were 12 months ago.
And wage rates we know are up this year and most of the states that raised their minimum wages are raising them again next year.
We know we don't have any supply on the beef side coming for at least two to three years.
So I guess I looked at 16 and just say is there anything you are hearing from QSR? Any of your major channels that would suggest you that demand is just going to -- its just kind of pent-up demand for Chicken over the summer and then it just evaporates because I really can't believe that? And then my follow-up which I will ask just now is based on that answer.
I looked at your changes to your outlook in your major segments.
And all of them are positive like lower interest expense better margins in Chicken et cetera et cetera.
And so I look at the guidance range of $330 million to $340 and there has been movement there yet.
You have guided to mostly positive changes in the outlook on a segment basis.
Is there any reason why you're not putting your earnings range out today? I mean there are two questions that are sort of linked.
Thanks.
Sure.
Sp I agree with you.
I am not hearing anything that would indicate to me that there is a cliff in demand frankly quite the opposite.
And here is how I think about let's say '16.
And hey it is early to your point on guidance its early in our year.
And so you are right the outlook is positive when you balance all of the factors but it's just early for us.
So here is how I think about it.
Number one we've got advantage brands and advantage categories.
We've got leading brands with leading share and categories that are very meaningful to consumers.
And we will continue to see growth not just based on categories but also and more importantly based on our brand building capabilities and our innovation pipeline.
In 2016 obviously we will have an accelerated an incremental year in capturing the synergies.
As I mentioned earlier we are setting our supply up to be able to take advantage of whatever industry supply we see to meet that demand.
I believe we will continue because of the shortness in a cattle supply we will continue to see red meat pricing high and that will provide an umbrella for the alternative proteins because the relative value of chicken to beef I think remains largely unchanged over the next couple three years.
We're going to have new tray pack capacity we will have new fully cooked capacity and that will be in our results.
I think cattle frankly and hogs are moving closer to us so that advantages us there.
As you mentioned we're going to generate a lot of cash and we will continue to improve the balance sheet and create optionality for us.
We've got a strong CapEx agenda to continue to grow the business and add to our profitability.
If you just look at the lower interest costs in the future and the stock price goes up the change in tangible equity units will help bps.
Again so there is just a lot of reasons to be optimistic now about our 2015 guidance its just early.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Piken with Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
Just wanted to circle back and sort of take sort of a multiple year view and maybe you can talk a little bit specifically first on beef.
When you think we might be able to get back to normalized margins or if cows supplies are going to remain tight through 2016 and maybe even the beginning of '17 when we might expect to return to normalized margins? And then the second follow-up question would be on Prepared Foods.
It definitely sounds like there is a headwind from the raw material cost that will continue into Q2.
But what is the pathway to 10% to 12% margins and should be expect sort of straight-line growth from this point forward? Thanks.
So in terms of beef the supply will probably be flat to down 1% again in next year.
And I think it may take four or five years to rebuild the herd back to the 2013 levels.
But I think over time the margins in our beef business will improve.
In Prepared Foods you're right.
We've got some front-end headwinds on raw materials.
We talked about that.
It will dramatically improve in the back half and we will continue to grow our margin potential one as we gain the synergies in the out years.
Plus we continue to grow the brands.
Our final question comes from Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Let me just go back to this business [indiscernible].
It seems like again the supply of hog is far greater than anybody expected.
It seems like we might actually be swimming in hogs in the next year or two.
When you are thinking about your forecast on the 10% to 12% longer-term as well as the nearer-term how much of this recent movement in the hog price as well as the lower pork costs were really incorporated in your expectations both on the pork packer site as well as the input cost to the Hillshire? Frankly none Ken.
As you look out front what we did is we took let's say five-year average pork prices and then layered in the synergy capture and then what we felt like we could do by organic growth in those categories that's how we came to the 10% to 12% number.
So any benefit that frankly our Pork segment and our Prepared Foods segment would see from a increased hog supply has now been factored in.
Okay.
Let me see if I understand it.
So you took up your chicken margins to 11%.
You had more synergies than the $225 million because you are on the run rate of $240 million.
Youre seeing more hog supply you started buying back stock and you lowered your interest expense and yet you think your expectations are still $330 million to $340 million? I think it's early but I like your story.
I was just making sure I wasnt confused.
No you got it.
You absolutely have it.
Okay.
And then my last question is cash flow.
Just to make sure I understand this.
You actually started buying stock although its little off to the conversation earlier than I think you expected.
So I think your cash flow is better than you expected.
What is that attributable to? Seasonally in the first quarter we typically have our cattle and hog producers.
They don't want to be paid in December for cash tax reasons.
Typically that deferral that carries over at the end of December is in the neighborhood of $200 million and $250 million.
This year it was more than $400 million.
So there was a little bit of extra cash that we would redeploy in the quarter.
Maybe you guys will stop buying stock today.
Anyway thanks a lot.
Thanks Ken.
Thank you everyone.
So we are off to a great start towards another record setting year for our company and well continue to accelerate our growth but as an insight driven consumer-centric branded food company.
And as always we appreciate your interest in our company and I hope you have a great weekend.
That does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Tyson Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this point.
Now I would like to hand the call over to your host Mr.
Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Tyson Foods' conference call for the second quarter of the 2015 fiscal year.
On today's call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read the news release issued earlier this morning and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
This morning we will be referring to our second quarter adjusted operating income and EPS.
The company uses non-GAAP results such as adjusted EPS adjusted operating margin and adjusted operating income to provide investors with the better understanding of the company's operating performance by excluding the impact of certain nonrecurring items affecting comparability.
Please refer to today's news release for a full reconciliation of our GAAP to adjusted results.
As always we'll have a Q&amp;A session following our prepared remarks.
To ensure we get to as many of you as possible please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in the queue for any additional questions.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm pleased with our second quarter results.
EPS was $0.75 on both an adjusted and a GAAP basis and adjusting operating margin was 5.5%.
Adjusted operating income was a Q2 record and up 53% over the same period last year.
We captured $77 million in total synergies during the quarter bringing the total to a $137 million so far this year.
We initially set annual synergy targets of more than $225 million for this year and an excess of $500 million for 2017.
Our progress is ahead of schedule and we're optimistic about the synergy opportunity so we're increasing those targets to more than $250 million this fiscal year $400 million in 2016 and $600 million in 2017.
Now let's discuss the operating segments and then I'll come back to the overall outlook.
The Prepared Foods segment posted a record adjusting operating margin of 8.4% and record operating income of $157 in the second quarter.
Sales volume was up 70.6% with the acquired Hillshire Brands showing increased momentum through strategic pricing brand building and innovation.
These expanded capabilities our consumer-preferred brand portfolio and a strong growing innovation pipeline will allow us to drive continued growth.
We expect to maintain our current earnings trajectory and quickly move towards the new 10% to 12% normalized range indicating the strength and the relevance of the new Tyson 2.0.
I'd also like to point out that $70 million of the $77 million of synergy capture in the quarter came in the Prepared Foods segment.
Through synergies we are re-rating the cost structure of our Prepare Foods business and growing the top and the bottom lines.
In the Chicken segment for the second quarter volumes and price were roughly flat compared to Q2 of 2014.
The operating margin was 11.7% and I'd like to point out that segment operating income for the last 12 months exceeded $1 billion.
We feel really good about how we've managed our Chicken business and I think we've positioned ourselves well.
We've put our retail value-added poultry business back on track and maintained our position as the number one brand in the country.
In fact IRI four-week data indicate that our market share for frozen breaded chicken is 53.7% which is only a 1 point or 2 point below where we were when the operational challenges occurred last year.
Also within the Chicken segment we've rightsized our small bird and the big bird business is running well.
Tyson Fresh Chicken which is still the number one brand is outperforming its peers and the volume that will be coming from the plant in South Georgia that we're converting to tray pack is already fully committed.
As you're aware avian influenza in the upper Midwest has affected mostly turkey and table egg flocks.
At this point the primary impact on our business is not from bird health concerns but rather from the loss of export markets for certain states and the resulting excess leg quarters in the domestic market.
We've positioned ourselves well over the past several years by reducing our dependency on export leg quarters which now represent only a small percentage of our total portfolio.
We have a very good whole bird mix especially beneficial in times of depressed leg quarter pricing and our buy-versus-growth strategy means that we're not producing leg quarters that aren't sold.
We're also fast-tracking innovation to get more dark meat into value-added form at both retail and foodservice.
So we've got plenty of positives to offset the negatives.
Our Chicken business is having a great year.
Adjusted for the lower leg quarter prices we're now expecting in the back half we expect operating income for the full fiscal year of approximately 11%.
In the Beef segment volume was down slightly with pricing up 9%.
Operating margin was negative 0.5%.
We knew it'd be a tough quarter for Beef but it was more disappointing than expected.
Higher fed cattle cost and lower export volumes due to the West Coast ports slow down made it difficult to pass along increased input cost.
The product is moving again out of the West Coast albeit slower than we hoped and it could take another two to three months to clear.
Orders have continued to flow in which is encouraging for export demand.
And also on the second quarter the start-up of our Dakota City Nebraska plant following a significant renovation project increased operating cost but we now have the largest most modern beef facility in the United States.
For fiscal 2015 we expect fed cattle supply to be down 5% to 6% from last year.
And we think we've experienced the bottom of the beef supply cycle.
After this year we believe we'll see slow incremental improvement in supply.
Our Beef segment results should improve in the back half of the year and while profitable for the year fiscal 2015 results are expected to be below fiscal 2014.
It is important to remember that we'll continue to run our Beef business for margin not market share.
In the Pork segment volume was down 4.4% and sales price was down over 15%; operating margin was 8.2%.
Our volume decrease was due to the sale of our Heinold business and excluding the impact of the divestiture our sales volume grew 3.2%.
Demand for pork has been a little softer than expected as wholesale price declines have not been realized in the retail channel.
We expect future activity to improve soon which should improve pork consumption because a higher percentage of pork is exported than beef the West Coast port issue had a greater effect on domestic pork supplies.
In addition there are more hogs coming on to the market and coupled with increased weight pork supply could be up 8% to 10% in the near term.
However we don't think it'll stay at those levels for long because that scenario isn't sustainable.
For the rest of the year we'll continue to maximize revenue relative to the live hog markets through operational efficiencies and mix optimization and we think the Pork segment will be in the range for the year.
In the International segment volume was down just over 30% due to the sale of our operations in Brazil and continued weak demand in China.
Pricing was down 2.7% also due to demand in China as well as currency devaluation in Mexico.
Operating margin was a negative 6.8%.
Segment operating losses improved following the sale of our Brazilian operations and improved market conditions in Mexico.
The sale of our Mexico operations is pending the necessary government approvals and we expect to receive a decision during fiscal 2015.
Chicken pricing weakness in China persists although we're starting to see some improvement based on stronger pork pricing.
We expect the International segment's adjusted operating loss to improve by about $25 million for the fiscal year.
Now let's take a look at the sales channel information.
At retail Tyson was up 3% in the latest 52 weeks which is on track with all food and beverage retail sales through the end of March.
Not only did eight out of our nine core businesses have positive dollar sales growth in both the latest year and the latest quarter six of nine had positive dollar share growth.
In the total fresh meat and deli universe dollar sales were up 6% for all fresh meats for the 52 weeks ended March 28.
Retail prices were up 19% for ground beef and 16% for whole-muscle cuts while pork retails were up 14% and fresh chicken was up 4% indicating continued strong domestic demand for protein.
At foodservice dollar sales were up 3% for all commercial restaurants.
The largest growth came in QSR Mexican with dollar sales up 11% in the March-ending year and QSR chicken has the second highest growth rate.
Economic conditions for spending are the most favorable in seven years.
Unemployment is down wages are growing consumer confidence is up and inflation is in check.
Consumers are spending less on fuel and more on food.
Although value consciousness appears to be here to stay the consumer's ability and willingness to pay for value-added benefit is moving in a direction to afford and support protein innovation in the marketplace.
We'll leverage this direction as we continue to deliver relevant innovation with new varieties for Park's Finest hot dogs by Ball Park and Hillshire Farm natural lunchmeat.
We'll also be introducing three disruptive innovation platforms in Q4 capitalizing on the snacking and freshness consumer trends with the launches of Hillshire Snacking Ball Park jerky and Jimmy Dean's simple scrambles.
We'll break into new sections of the store with these launches and while still continuing to expand our convenient meal and snacking offerings in frozen chicken.
Our Hillshire Snacking launch continues to show success in test market.
Within the test category growth is up 17% with Hillshire responsible for nearly half the growth and especially important to our retail partners over a third of Hillshire's Snacking dollars are incremental to the category.
We're also seeing successful foodservice innovation behind Chef Pierre Layer Luxe pies and we're looking forward to launches coming this month within foodservice brands such as Tyson Red Label Chicken and our expansion of Bistro Collection Desserts.
All this puts Tyson Foods in a solid position.
Cash flow is strong giving us options for 2016.
If there aren't any strategic acquisitions of interest we'll invest in our business and buy back stock.
Our balanced portfolio increased synergy capture and strong momentum in Prepared Foods coupled with favorable pork raw material costs give us confidence that we'll achieve our annual guidance of $3.30 to $3.40 adjusted EPS despite near-term challenges.
We're very well positioned with sound fundamentals and a solid growth story.
Synergy capture is going very well.
We're gaining momentum in retail brand as we make rapid progress with the integration.
We have advantaged brands in advantaged categories protein is extremely relevant to today's consumers.
According to IRI 99% of our refrigerated product sales are in categories that are showing positive year-over-year growth.
In frozen food 92% of our products are in categories that are showing growth over last year.
We are currently number two among all other major food and beverage companies in terms of dollar sales growth for the 52 weeks ended March 19.
And let's not forget foodservice where restaurant traffic is showing growth as consumers benefit from lower gas prices and improved economic conditions.
We have a lot going for us and we're comfortable projecting at least 10% adjusted EPS growth in fiscal 2016 which is in keeping with our stated goal.
And now let's go to Dennis for the financial update.
Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
Q2 was another record quarter as we delivered strong financial results demonstrating the value of the diversity of our portfolio.
Our revenues grew by 10.5% compared to the same period a year ago as we produced our third consecutive $10 billion quarter.
Adjusted return on sales for the quarter was 5.5% and adjusted operating income was $553 million representing a 53% increase over Q2 of 2014.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $0.75 this quarter was a record for a second quarter and represents a 25% increase from $0.60 in the comparative period last year.
Our rolling four quarter adjusted EPS of $3.14 reached another milestone by surpassing $3 per share and has been consistently growing over the past eight quarters.
Operating cash flow through two quarters was $808 million and we spent $435 million on capital expenditures which was $139 million greater than depreciation as we continue to invest in projects with a focus on delivering high ROIC.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 35.6%.
Net debt to EBITDA for the past 12 months was 3.3 times.
On a pro forma basis including Hillshire's results for the past 12 months net-debt-to-adjusted EBITDA was 2.7 times.
Net interest expense was $70 million during the second quarter.
Including cash of $223 million net debt was $7.4 billion.
Total liquidity was $1.3 billion remaining above our goal of $1.2 billion.
For the quarter our diluted shares outstanding were 415 million.
The sale of our Mexican operation is pending the necessary government approvals and we expect to receive a decision during fiscal 2015.
Subject to completion of the sale we will use the proceeds to pay down debt.
Now here are some thoughts on the remainder of fiscal 2015.
Please note our accounting cycle results in a 53-week year in fiscal 2015 as compared to a 52-week year in fiscal 2014.
Accordingly this outlook is based on a 52-week year to make a better year-over-year comparison.
We expect revenues of approximately $41 billion for fiscal 2015 which is over 9% growth compared to fiscal 2014.
This is driven primarily by a full year of Hillshire Brands offset by a reduction in our International operations.
In fiscal 2015 we expect to capture more than $250 million from our Prepared Foods profit improvement initiatives and Hillshire Brands synergies.
Net interest expense should approximate $275 million for fiscal 2015.
We currently estimate our adjusted effective tax rate to be around 35.5%.
CapEx is expected to be $900 million which is approximately $300 million or 50% more than our depreciation as we continue to focus on projects that create long-term shareholder value.
By the end of fiscal 2015 we expect net debt to adjusted EBITDA of approximately 2 times.
Based on our average share price in Q2 we expect our diluted shares in Q3 to be around 415 million prior to considering any changes in our stock price which would impact the dilution from our tangible equity units.
Our priorities for the significant cash flows that our operations will generate are for continued rapid deleveraging and strengthening of our balance sheet a sustained focus on disciplined capital allocation to drive long-term shareholder value creating incremental debt capacity to fund acquisitions to fulfill our growth strategies and return cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while maintaining plenty of liquidity.
In closing our Q2 results continue to demonstrate the value of our diversified business model.
With the addition of Hillshire valuing up our portfolio along with the synergies we expect to capture Prepared Foods is expected to finish strong with margins above 8% for the remainder of fiscal 2015.
Our Chicken segment has delivered more than $1 billion in operating income over the past 12 months and should produce an operating margin of approximately 11% for fiscal 2015.
Although our Beef segment has faced volatile market conditions this year we believe the worst is behind us.
We expect our Beef segment to be profitable in fiscal 2015 but below 2014 results while our Pork segment is projected to operate in its normalized range for the year.
Despite a number of headwinds coming at us we have a great team which gives me confidence we will deliver strong results in the second half of the year to not only meet our guidance of $3.30 to $3.40 adjusted earnings per share but also grow EPS by at least 10% in fiscal 2016.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Okay.
Our first question is from Ken Goldman [JPMorgan Securities].
Your line is now open.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
I know these are difficult to sort of put into numbers but you had two headwinds in the quarter right avian flu and the West Coast port strike that you said didn't help right? So is there any way for us to quantify how much these headwinds maybe hurt margins or EPS in the quarter? Ken as we look at  I'm going to combine the both probably around $20 million for Q2.
And as you know they're continuing to linger so we're going to have to continue dealing with them over the next quarter or two.
But we're hoping that the West Coast port issue should clear up in the next two to three months.
There are some ebb and flows that kind of keep us from having all the confidence we'd like to have in that but figure Q2 at $20 million and some of that gets pushed into Q3 and on forward.
And that's $20 million to the operating line? Right.
Okay.
Call it round numbers $0.03 a share or something like that.
Yeah yeah.
Okay.
Perfect.
No I just wanted to make sure it wasn't on the net line.
And then I realize not everything is going as well as initially forecast this year namely beef but most of the business is doing pretty well and you keep beating consensus estimates raising synergy targets.
So I guess my question is this if you had to focus on one reason why you didn't raise guidance today would beef be the primary reason or is there something else we should be looking at? So yeah as we look at Prepared Foods we'll continue to deliver over 8% in Prepared Foods.
Now there's a couple of categories  by the way the categories that are showing really good growth where we've given up a little bit of share and we're going to need to reinvest some of the raw materials savings in the back half to regain that share and protect those businesses for the long term.
The other categories it's probably export-related.
With the West Coast port slowdown if we're two to three months from seeing that then that's going to linger a little bit into Q4 and we're just uncertain as to whether or not our estimate on that is correct.
And then these AI bans we've seen  even as late as last week we saw a couple of other outbreaks or few more outbreaks of AI up in the upper Midwest in turkey and table egg flocks.
And as those outbreaks continue it continues to push out the time when those AI bans would be lifted.
And so we're predicting a little bit more export leg quarter pricing softness in the back half than what we had thought before.
So hopefully that sums it up.
It does.
Thank you very much.
By the way Ken if we're overly conservative on these issues then certainly our back half could improve further.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kenneth Zaslow [BMO Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to explore the Prepared Foods a little bit more.
So you're hitting 8.4% this quarter in margins and I guess the point that you're going to be having to reinvest some of the lower input costs.
But how does it not sequentially improve throughout the year as your synergy targets go up? The at least or in excess of 8% seems like it should be in excess of 9% or in excess of 10% can you help us understand that? Well certainly as we get into 2016 Ken our expectation is to be rapidly approaching our new projected normalized range of 10% to 12%.
And what we're talking about is just the flow of operating income improvement to get to that point.
So with the favorability in raw materials plus what we're going to need to reinvest back in some of these categories we're going to be over 8% in the back half.
If raw materials are a little more favorable than we thought then certainly that number will improve.
But you will see a sequential increase in operating income in our Prepared Foods segment through this fiscal year and then into next.
Okay.
And then going into 2016 the idea that you could get at least 10% growth can you talk about what are your key assumptions to get you there because it seems again not that it's a layup but it seems a little bit easier maybe than what you're saying so I'm just trying to figure out exactly how you're getting to that at least 10% growth in 2016? Sure.
So we'll be in the second year of our synergy capture and as we said a little earlier that's got a little better.
So we see improvements there as we continue to reset the cost structure in Prepared Foods.
For the first time in 18 months we've now got the capacity to increase fully-cooked chicken sales and this  and next year 2016 will be the first year where we have an incremental year-over-year ability to have a full-year sale growth in fully-cooked chicken.
If we're right and we're at the  we've seen the trough in the beef supply cycle then our beef numbers should improve sequentially next year over this.
Oh by the way back on chicken we're starting up the trade back plan in South Georgia this month so we'll have a full year of those results in our number next year.
I would think that pork is set up to have a pretty good year next year and we think that's going to provide good raw material price discourse in our Prepared Foods business.
Not to mention the fact we're going to be generating a lot of cash so we'll get to pay down debt we'll have opportunities to continue to invest in our business that type of thing.
And again we've got great brands and we've got them in great categories that are growing and we'll be using our brand growth to continue to drive this expectation of having stable consistent earnings growth over time.
So is the be at least 10% just a stab to just start there? It sounds like that's  because you got to lap all of these  the $20 million this quarter probably there's probably going to be $15 million to $20 million next quarter as well and then you have all of these things.
If you let at least 10% just as a starting point and say hey look this is in line with our long-term growth targets it's not really a true projection of where we're going to go it could be higher than that.
Is that a fair statement? I can tell you for us Ken it's early.
But I'm not  no I wouldn't go so far as to say I'm taking a stab.
I mean we feel comfortable about our ability to deliver 10% EPS growth next year with a lot of reasons to do so but it's hard to get anymore granular than what we've said this early in 2015.
All right.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thanks Ken.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam [Stephens Inc.].
Your line is now open please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just kind of building on Ken's discussion about next year and 10% EPS growth.
I think why Ken is focusing in on that because you'll have probably $150 million of incremental synergies next year.
So that's 7% of EPS growth right there.
So perhaps you could just share with us your outlook in to 2016 about the performance of the core business.
And clearly there is concern that is it only 10% EPS growth because you think that poultry is going to feel pressure from increased pork and beef on the market.
Could you just kind of address your 10% EPS growth targets with relation to how your various divisions  how you are expecting them to flow into next year? Okay.
So yeah I'll just break down through segments.
So we would certainly see the opportunity in our Prepared Foods segment to approach our normalized range.
In Chicken at this point if we project the current soft leg quarter prices into next year we're still at or above the top end of our normalized range in Chicken.
Again beef should get a little bit better than this year.
We think pork will improve next year over this year.
So there's good  we feel comfortable that 2016 is set out to be a very good year for us.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
And then just focusing on operations within particularly chicken and Prepared Foods this quarter your volume in chicken was flat year-over-year and the market was growing.
If you look out into the second half of the year and into 2016 what do you expect Tyson's volume growth to be in chicken? And particularly in your cooked divisions are all your plants up online? So I'll start at the back and go up.
Yes we have full capacity to produce fully cooked items now.
So we're all up and online.
In terms of next year's growth I'm going to  hey Farha it is really really early okay? Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
But I would say somewhere 1% to 2% sales volume growth don't know that I would predict any production volume growth.
Next year my guess is we'll do a lot more of buy versus grow which by the way there's some impact in that in the flat volume of this year because this year we bought about 50% more loads a week as part of buy versus grow program than we did last year.
So we don't have the sales or the volume of the back half those birds but that's a good thing.
So yes we will have sales growth next year and I would predict the revenue growth to outpace the sales growth.
But in terms of production we currently wouldn't see our production up.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Adam Samuelson [Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.].
Your line is now open.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe shifting a little bit more into the Hillshire pieces the 20% increase to the 2017 targets.
Can you walk through the buckets the synergy upside you think it would come from? And along the same lines if you think about $600 million of synergies an incremental $350 million off of what you're expecting to realize in 2015 wouldn't you be at that call it the high end of your 10% to 12% normalized Prepared Foods margin range? (29:56-30:02).
Okay Adam you were cutting out just a little bit.
I think I got the gist of your question so if I miss it please ask a follow-up.
But a reminder our synergies number is all of Prepared Foods.
And so we talked about four primary categories that being operational improvements procurement let's call it logistics and then some organizational and fiduciary type stuff.
But the big three categories where in operational improvements procurement and manufacturing and logistics.
So the over delivery so far in the first two quarters has been in the operational improvement as we've been able  and this by the way primarily but not exclusively impacted the legacy Prepared Foods Tyson business.
We've seen some improvement as we've been able to move some of our product mix between plant to streamline our cost structure streamline our operational efficiencies and by the way get on top with some service issues that we had in Q1.
So we feel great about our ability from this point forward to service our customer.
As we go forward what you'll really see is some improvement in the operations category more improvement in the logistics and in the purchasing categories over time.
And those will  a lot of that becomes what we're calling a reset of our Prepared Foods cost structure.
So as we take that improved cost structure and what we believe will be improved raw materials in Prepared Foods into 2016 along with the great capabilities we have to launch new innovation and multiple levers to adjust our pricing and volume and trade and MAP spend we see a great opportunity to have that business up into its normalized range as we move forward.
And Donnie just on that point doesn't the incremental $250 million (32:20) from synergies beyond 2015 wouldn't that get you north of 12% or what do you think the new normalized range could actually prove to be conservative? Adam it's too early to tell because of what  of some of those types of synergy that we would use to spin back to grow volume in those categories.
Remember we've got advantaged brands and advantaged categories.
And as these categories are growing we want to make sure that we maintain strong market share in them to capture the growth as we move forward.
So we'll manage that carefully.
And certainly if there's a way to improve margins we'll do that but we feel comfortable now saying that a normalized range of that business should be in the 10% to 12% range.
But it seems like (33:22-33:28) like you're implying about 10% for the chicken in the second half of the fiscal year? A is that accurate? And B is it (33:35)? Adam I'm sorry.
I didn't catch 10%  I caught 10% of your message which was the word ten percent I'm not sure.
The second half chicken margins it seems (33:51-34:00)? I'm sorry Adam.
Operator we'll follow-up Adam  I'm sorry we just can't  we just can't get the question.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Piken [Cleveland Research Co.].
Your line is now open please proceed.
Yeah good morning.
Just wanted to touch base with you on the chicken and just sort of get your view on kind of how we should be interpreting some of the recent pullet data? And specifically your thoughts on how much of the boiler eggs are going to Mexico versus in the past and how much you think is staying here? Sure Michael.
So we're seeing about around number 7% growth in pullets.
We think about 3% of that's going to Mexico probably 8% of that is getting spent back to lower the hen age which leaves about 3% as the growth in the actual breeder flock.
And by the way so far year-to-date  I'm just look at fresh retail but obviously we've got great opportunities in foodservice.
You're seeing growth there as well.
But demand for chicken at  fresh chicken at retail just using a category that we can get numbers around is up about 3% 3.5% versus a year ago.
So there is good strong demand growth and we think that will continue because we don't really see beef pricing halo changing.
There's ample opportunities particularly at retail to drive a lot more pork volume and not hurt chicken volume at all.
So we see a very favorable environment coming out of this year and going into 2016 in terms of demand.
Terrific.
That's really helpful.
And then I guess kind of following up on that.
I mean I know you talked a little bit about some of the issues with the ports and pork's reliance on exports.
But it seems like with all these lower-cost hogs available it would seem like maybe projecting into 2016 that there might be some incremental margin opportunities in pork with all that excess supply in your plants (36:08) higher utilization rates.
So how should we sort of think net-net about kind of the increase in pork supplies over your entire business? It sounds like you think there's enough demand out there to support the increased pork and chicken? Certainly that is a favorable environment for our business.
I would probably be a lot more comfortable talking about the impact to our pork margins overall a quarter from now when we've seen some of this export West Coast port issue get resolved.
And you'll start seeing freight flow more traditionally than what it has over the last 90 days to 120 days of course.
So we'll feel better about having a lot better commentary more specific commentary about that on our next quarter but certainly the environment is set up well for our Pork business.
And again on the chicken demand we see strong chicken demand at least through next year and I think carrying on because  and a good reason for that is as the millennials enter the marketplace they over-index to chicken.
And so we think you're going to see good strong chicken growth and we also think you're going to see that beef halo continue; all that sets up very well for our business.
Terrific.
And then lastly if you could give us any sort of quantification on how much of a raw material benefit you might expect in the back half of the year in Prepared Foods from lower commodity prices recognizing that you are investing more into the brands.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Well let me quantify that this way.
The pork cutout is down about 40% versus a year ago and the items within the cutout that are showing the most weakness are the further processing items.
So if you look at those hams bellies trim those are the items that have shown the most weakness.
And certainly that's favorable for our Prepared Foods business.
So hopefully that gives you enough color around  now one thing to add we do over-index a little bit versus our competitors on beef because  our hotdog business and others a couple of other businesses in our portfolio.
But still this weakness in the pork cutout particularly among the grinding meat is very favorable for our business.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow [Credit Suisse].
Your line is now open please proceed.
Hi Thanks.
Donnie I was wondering if I could ask you just to go a little bit deeper on the incremental step up next year on the synergies in Prepared Foods.
You said it's logistic savings and a reset of the cost structure in Prepared Foods.
But I guess I'm still a little unclear as to what that really means.
I mean is it a function of procuring raw materials from your internal supplies that is something that you're not doing now but you plan to do next year? Is there something else happening in terms of new processes or are you taking more steps in your supply chain footprint? Can you go a level deeper for us? Sure.
It's not in buying raw materials or moving raw materials within the portfolio because none of that is factored in.
The big improvements are this: as we've been able to combine the footprint  if you'll think back we had a lot of latent capacity in the Tyson Prepared Foods footprint and when we bought Hillshire we had a perfect opportunity to then take all of that latent capacity out of the system and run more volume  by the way more branded not private label volume through a smaller footprint and lower our cost structure.
There're still some opportunities now to go through those facilities and increase efficiencies.
Remember some of them are running new products they've not run before so we'll see incremental benefits as we continue to work on continuous improvement and operational efficiencies in those plants.
And that will re-rate our cost structure and then that lower cost structure obviously will be selling a lot more branded items than it was before which is the big move in the Prepared Foods' normalized range from where we were up into that 10% to 12% range.
Okay.
I think I get it.
And as far as new products you mentioned the snacking platform.
Hillshire also introduced a frozen platform.
Are those platforms going to be running through legacy Tyson plants and if so can you give us a little update on how well the frozen one is doing? I saw it on shelf.
Is it doing okay? So overall very well.
The sandwich items probably didn't have the pull that we wanted them to.
So what we're doing is focusing that launch on the  there was a 16-item launch that might have been a little much so we're concentrating that launch down to those items that are going to give us the best growth opportunities forward.
The bowls  if you remember we had sandwiches and we had bowls the bowls are doing great.
We still think by the way that that will be one of the best launches of the year.
So we feel good about it.
It's not exactly like what we thought it would be but still we've been able to manage it to a point it's going to do very well.
And we're very optimistic about the platform launches that we have.
By the way back to the Hillshire platform both the Naturals and the Classics are going very very well driving great incremental growth to the categories.
We feel super about all of the innovation that we've launched and then what we will be launching in new categories in Q4.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Akshay Jagdale [KeyBanc Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> So I wanted to continue on the Prepared Foods.
You're doing really well obviously on the cost side.
I wanted to focus on the revenue side.
Can you tell us what the organic growth was this quarter in Prepared Foods if you exclude the acquisition impact? What was like organic growth? I can tell you that both the legacy Prepared Foods business and let's call it the legacy Hillshire business just for clarity both were over plan on both volume and on operating income.
So we feel very good about how the Prepared Foods business is performing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just on innovation and more so broadly on reinvesting these cost savings into future growth can you give us a little bit more color on the innovation pipeline? It was helpful that you'd talked about the lunch  launch into lunch if I may sandwiches and that it didn't go as well as planned.
Can you give us some more sort of broader and longer-term view on innovation because from what I remember one of the best parts about this acquisition was the R&amp;D innovation team at Hillshire feeling much better about their prospects as part of Tyson.
So can you give us an update on that? Sure.
It's been exciting to see both of the R&amp;D teams come together combined with all of the innovation and business unit/teams come together and find a lot of opportunities between foodservice and retail to be able to grow our business through innovation.
One of the primary tools that we use to measure whether or not we've got enough innovation in the pipeline is what we call a vitality index.
What we do is we look at products that were created over the last three years and we determine our percentage of revenue that comes from these new products.
So for 2015 we're expecting retail to be at about 14% vitality index.
And by the way that's in the best in class range.
And for food service we're currently expecting more than 20%.
So these are very aggressive goals but we have a great team that continues to focus on looking at insights and create innovative solutions to fill the consumer gap so that we're always relevant.
We know we're in relevant categories.
In this way we know we've got relevant innovation inside those categories.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just one last one on chicken just broadly speaking longer term is it your contention that the industry is not cyclical anymore? I mean obviously historically the industry would over supply the market and margins would flip around within a year.
It's not been the case this time around.
It looks like that process might be starting now but you're saying it's not going to impact you in 2016.
So can you just talk a little bit broadly about do you think the industry is not cyclical anymore? If so why? And if it is cyclical when the cycle does turn when the industry will overproduce which I guess none of us really know when that'll happen.
Do you still believe you can grow EPS 10% when that happens? Thank you.
Okay Akshay.
So we're certainly working very hard not to be cyclical.
That's our whole path forward.
So if you look at our business and you look at over the last two or three years our improvement in our sales mix  by the way even with the operational issues we had in our fully cooked retail chicken business our branded chicken business we're back to within a share point or two of where we were before that happened so that the Tyson brand at retail is very meaningful is very resilient and we think it's got lots of opportunities to continue to grow.
We've got a great broad portfolio.
We've got a great innovation pipeline and by the way new and improved innovative capability for the future.
We've seen a lot of operational improvements.
We've got plenty of cash flow to do whatever CapEx we need to do as illustrated by taking a South Georgia plant and taking it from an unprofitable product mix into one of our most profitable categories our fresh tray pack business.
So those are all  those are some of the things that we're doing to decrease our cyclicality to give our investors a consistent stable earnings growth over time.
And yes we do believe we can see 10% growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Well what about the industry? What's your view on the industry? We spend all of our time Akshay focusing on what we're going to do.
And if you'll remember we put a forward demand picture out 12 months to 15 months.
And then we built a production plan based on that demand curve so that we know how we can manage our business and our production.
That keeps us in a position to buy versus grow.
So in a period of increased industry supply then we'll simply buy that raw material add value to it and as long as we're focusing on the customer and growing our value-added sales we've got a great footprint to do that within.
By the way we have plenty of value-added capacity over the next year too.
So we're very comfortable that in the scenarios that we can paint forward we've got a great outlook.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brett Hundley [BB&amp;T Capital Markets].
Your line is now open please proceed.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Donnie I want to stay on the topic actually and maybe ask Akshay's question a different way as well.
When you think about your strategy in chicken specifically buy versus grow can you discuss the level that you're comfortable taking your portfolio as far as buy versus grow as a percentage of your portfolio? And as the chicken cycle potentially slides off here in coming periods I think there's more of a view today that we could see a slide instead of that sharp fall-off that we've traditionally seen across the industry.
As the chicken cycle potentially slides off or in that type of scenario is Tyson's Chicken business equipped to return margin in line with kind of what you're looking for today 11% or so? So if I understood the question right on the front-end we think we've got the opportunity depending on the part that we're buying.
To buy up to as much as 10% of our sales so  or the product that would go into our sales.
So we feel very good about the flexibility that we have within our network to manage buy versus grow.
If you remember a couple of quarters ago I think Dennis when we raised our normalized range in chicken...
Yes.
...and certainly we've had great favorability in the marketplace for this year it's certainly our intention to continue raising our margin expectations.
And with the work we've done to balance our portfolio across the various bird classes increasing our value-added sales right-sizing our small bird business.
We under-indexed big bird but that's fine for us because there's a lot of that product available on the marketplace to buy.
We have great Tyson brands.
We're number one at frozen retail number one in frozen snack and chicken we're number one in fresh tray pack number in IQF number one in Cornish.
So we've got a great brand presence in categories that are very meaningful to consumers.
So that gives us the confidence to be able to look at our business forward and feel very good about our ability to deliver.
Okay.
And then my second question is kind of two-part here: one near term; and one longer term higher level.
First starting with the question on your Beef business you mentioned at the outset that results were softer than expected in a tough environment.
And surely when we look at your outperformance relative to beef industry margin that we calculate your outperformance that we've traditionally seen has come in a little bit during the quarter.
And you mentioned a couple of different things with the West Coast port and then your plant in Dakota.
Can you give us a sense of what percentage of the impact was from Dakota and maybe how long that would be expected to last? You gave some assumptions on the port clearance but can you talk a little bit more about your beef plant there? And then longer term and somewhat related how important and necessary is it for you Donnie and your team to remain a multi-protein company offering everything that you do today? Thank you.
So if I look at the impact of our Dakota City start-up to the rest of  well to our Q2 results let's see if I think about our index it may have been about I don't know 40% to 45% of the change in how our index performed versus where we had been performing in the previous couple of quarters.
And remember in that quarter cattle supplies were very very tight so that  well we had a huge capital investment.
We needed to start the plan-up.
So we did it.
But we started to plan up in the quarter when we probably had the lowest cattle supply so that didn't help matters any.
But the good news is the plant started up fine.
We're working through the start-up issues on Q3 and it will help give us access to bigger cattle which was what the whole process was all about.
So yes that had an impact.
As we look forward we think it's very important that we have a presence in the whole broad array of meat protein and as you know in our portfolio some non-protein items that are very complementary to protein.
So yeah you should expect us to continue to have that in the portfolio.
Thanks Donnie.
Thank you.
Our next question is Diane Geissler [CLSA].
Your line is now open.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Yeah I had a question about your comments on buy versus grow and just wanted to make sure I understood them.
So you said you had the capability of buying up to 10% of your sales on the outside market.
For that part I'm sorry.
For that part.
So if it's breast meat we can buy about 10% of the breast meat that we sell and run it through our plants.
Okay.
So just thinking forward I mean obviously I think it's pretty clear to everybody that we're moving through a period where there's going to be significantly more production whether or not you think 3% of the eggs are going to Mexico or whatever that percentage is.
You raised your expectations for total poultry availability this year from the time you reported your last quarter.
So I guess the question that I think the investors are often asking me so how should we think about buy versus grow? Pretty clear you've probably been raising most of your own sales here recently but as you look into the second half of 2015 and into 2016 can you talk about what your production plans are versus the industry to help give us a better idea about how exposed you're going to be to leg quarter prices here going forward and how exposed you will be to the boneless skinless breast meat price as we move to the summer and into 2016? Sure.
For the year our production this year versus last will be flat.
We've been up a little bit in the front half of the year.
And after July 4 our production will be declining versus year-over-year.
So for the total fiscal year our production volume will be flat which by the way to your point does reduce risk of export vulnerability and that type of thing.
Of course let me hasten on to add because I don't think I've mentioned this before and I think it's really important.
Over the last three years we've reduced the amount of export leg quarters we sell every bit of 30%.
And if you go back to probably fiscal 2010 sometime in right 2009 fiscal 2010 we're probably down in half.
So we feel very good about  and these are the things that we're doing to provide a more consistent stable return that grows over time.
And so we feel very good about our ability to maintain production flexibility and to improve our mix.
And then in 2016? I think  hey I think our production will be basically flat in 2016.
We think we'll be buying more raw material in 2016 than we do this year.
And by the way we're up 50% this year over last year.
We think our sales volume will be up.
I think I mentioned earlier about 1% or 2%.
Our dollar sales will be up a little bit higher than that.
But feel very comfortable that we can buy the raw material we need and add value to it  sorry add value to it and be able to maintain our margin structure.
Okay.
And then I wanted to ask about the cash priorities which are pretty consistent period to period in terms of your list of items that you're spending your cash on.
But I wanted to ask about share repo which  I'm generally not a big fan of share repo.
But I think there's a big disconnect between the sell side recommending your stock and you seeming very confident in your ability to generate 10%-plus EPS growth.
And the buy side just if you look at kind of the fact that the stock has not done much over the last 12 months.
Given your level of confidence in your ability to increase earnings 10% from here on out why is share repo not sort of higher on that list of priorities if you really feel that your shares are kind of undervalued? Great question Diane.
But remember it's important for us to maintain an investment-grade rating.
And so what we're trying to do is get down below a net-to-debt-to-EBITDA of about 2 times and we think kind of the sweet spot for us would be in that 1.5 times to 2 times area.
So when we get there then drawing off $1 billion and growing in free cash flow that opens up the door for returning cash to shareholders in the absence of major growth opportunities.
Now I would hurry on to say that growing is first and foremost most important to us.
But that being said certainly we can start buying back stock at that time.
I would see that as an opportunity at the start of 2016 which should be a good time to get started at the rate we're running.
Okay.
So you think you'd be sub 2 times by the end of this fiscal year? Yes.
Okay terrific.
Thank you.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Palmer [RBC Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning.
At your Analyst Day you mentioned that you believe Tyson's Chicken segment margin would be 5% if the industry margin were to go to zero.
Were you implying that 5% would be your best thinking for a worst-case margin for that segment? How did you arrive at those numbers? Thanks.
So what we did is we just looked at our incremental improvement over the last four or five years in relative benchmarking services.
The real point I think looking forward is we feel great about where our business is.
Yes we benchmark ourselves consistently but for next year we think we'll be at or above the upper end of our range and our guys are running a great chicken business.
When you think about the export bans typically  I don't know how many case studies there are or similar situations.
How fast do those bans lift typically after an avian flu issue subsides? Typically and I'm emphasizing typically 60 days probably more likely 90 days.
And so for us Arkansas has been hit a little bit more than the other states because of our production footprint.
And we saw a AI event in Arkansas early in the first week of March.
But as we continue  those countries that banned the United States and not on a state-by-state basis as you continue to see AI accessions in turkey and table egg flocks in the northern Midwest you can pretty well figure a timeline no sooner than 60 days to 90 days out front before the ban will be lifted.
And then one last one  removing human antibiotics seems to be a restaurant industry move at least that will play out probably through the end of 2016 if you're using McDonald's as an indicator.
What does this mean? Will this be the new price to play for the foodservice side and perhaps increasingly in the supermarket side? What ultimately will this mean for your Chicken segment margins over the next couple of years? Thank you.
David it really won't have a margin impact.
Our view is that by eliminating non  by eliminating the human-used antibiotics out of our poultry production by September of 2017 that is the most reasonable and responsible approach to balancing a global health concern about antibiotic resistance with our core value of taking care of the welfare of the animals that are entrusted to us.
So that was the impetus about what we're doing.
It wasn't necessarily in reaction to anything any customers were doing.
It was a matter of we've been working on this effort for several years.
We've reduced human-used antibiotics in our supply chain by over 80% in the last four years.
And we now think we can see a point in the future a couple of years from now when we can not have to use human-used antibiotics in the poultry production.
But I don't think  but back to the original point it will not have a material impact on our cost.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tim Tiberio [Miller Tabak].
Your line is now open please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I guess moving beyond some of the near-term export challenges I wanted to get your thinking about I guess your medium-term global poultry or chicken demand growth.
One of your global peers in Brazil recently stated that they felt that supply growth within Brazil unlike the U.S.
was still fairly benign.
And I guess looking out in just 2016 if we're not seeing the supply growth come back as quickly from one of your global export competitors do you think that this could actually create maybe a release valve or a window of opportunity if we can get past some of these export bans? So certainly that would be a favorable development.
As we look forward we think protein demand globally is going to continue to grow at about 2% year maybe just a tad under that.
We think chicken probably outpaces the other proteins just because it's the most efficient converter of feed into meat.
That could be a headwind  so there's still time for that dynamic to change so it's a little bit too early for us to call it but certainly that being the case that would be helpful to the back half of our 2016 year.
Great.
And just lastly USDA mentioned that they're starting I guess testing within animals for the potential vaccine for the AI strain.
I know it's very difficult to handicap at this point but I guess have you had initial conversations with USDA and FDA? I would assume and do you have a high confidence level that we could get that into production potentially before we start seeing the southern migratory path of some of the wild waterfowls which I guess has really been the issue with the spread of AI this year? It's really too soon to say Tim.
We've got lots of contacts in what I will call animal pharma that we work with and it's just too early to say whether or not we'll have an effective vaccine.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Tim Ramey [Pivotal Research Group].
Your line is now open please proceed.
Thanks so much.
Just a little bit of a follow-up on the last question but Donnie it's been a spectacular couple of years but it wasn't spectacular for some of the reasons we thought it would be which kind of relates back to the feeding the world growing middle class where we are going to see more protein demand globally.
I mean do you kind of think that's just demand deferred or is that demand denied? Is that still part of the long-term story here? Yeah.
I really think it is.
As we look across the globe you've got economies in some of the key growth areas that have slowed down maybe more than we hear about.
And so I think that demand growth is temporary as we continue to look and we've spent a lot of time over the last several months looking at population growth income growth those regions of the countries where that will happen how much of the growth in food consumption and how much of the growth in value-added food consumption is going to happen outside of the U.S.
and it is significant over the next several years.
So yeah I think maybe near-term we've seen a little unexpected softness.
But I think as we look out about three or four or five years from now we'll look back on this time as a small dip in a period of time where we still saw about 2% consumption growth in protein worldwide.
Great.
And then just on food service wondering if you're seeing any mix change in reaction to perhaps limited supply of liquid eggs or the beef supply being so difficult.
QSRs is there incremental shift in kind of what the menu looks like? We think that of course 50s have been pretty soft but 90s have remained very very high.
So we think as we  and it seems to us that the cutout is shifting a bit and you've seen 50s prices firm back up.
So as we look at that what we think that's going to do is drive incremental growth particularly at QSR in chicken.
We also are seeing fortunately and because the QSR Mexican category is growing the most  so QSR Chicken's probably up 8% QSR Mexican is up 11%.
And QSR Mexican favors our portfolio in a couple of ways.
It uses dark meat and it also is a pretty heavy user of protease so that's good for our business too.
So as we look at the trend going through the summer we feel very good about it being favorable to our business.
Excellent.
Thanks.
You bet.
So before we go I'd like to say again that we are building momentum at Prepared Foods.
We're capturing synergies and we're transitioning to a less volatile higher-return business that gives us the confidence that we'll achieve our annual guidance of $3.30 to $3.40 adjusted EPS this year and at least 10% EPS growth next year.
Thanks for your time today and have a great week.
Thank you speakers.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Tyson Foods' Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
Participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of today's conference.
This call is being recorded.
If you object you may disconnect now.
I will now turn the call over to Jon Kathol Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Tyson Foods' conference call for the third quarter of the 2015 fiscal year.
On today's call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read the news release issued earlier this morning and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
This morning we will be referring to our third quarter adjusted operating income and EPS.
The company uses non-GAAP results such as adjusted EPS adjusted operating margin and adjusted operating income to provide investors with a better understanding of the company's operating performance by excluding the impact of certain nonrecurring items affecting comparability.
Please refer to today's news release for a full reconciliation of our GAAP to adjusted results.
As always we'll have a Q&amp;A session following our prepared remarks.
To ensure we get to as many of you as possible please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in the queue for any additional questions.
I'll now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Well by now you've seen the results in our press release so I'll start by saying that there were four areas where we over delivered and one that was a negative.
The four positives are that synergies are ahead of expectations Prepared Foods exceeded forecast the Chicken segment exceeded forecast and cash flow was $864 million allowing us to reduce net debt by $688 million.
The one negative was that Beef under-delivered our expectations by $84 million.
We could not offset the quick and substantial impact of Beef in the quarter despite the significant progress across the rest of the portfolio and I'll talk more about that in my commentary on the operating segment.
Synergy capture from the integration of Hillshire Brands is going extremely well.
We have raised our estimates last quarter to more than $250 million this fiscal year and now we're on track for about $300 million largely driven by operational improvements in the Tyson legacy Prepared Foods operations.
The majority of the synergies $79 million for the quarter fell within the Prepared Foods segment where we continue to rewrite the cost structure of the business.
In the third quarter Prepared Foods produced record adjusted operating income of $197 million with an adjusted 10.9% return on sales.
Volume was up 77% reflecting the addition of Hillshire Brands and average sales price was up 13%.
The fundamentals in this segment remains strong and we continue to focus on a long-term growth and brand building.
We anticipate our retail margins will moderate a bit in the fourth quarter as we spend against the national launches of Hillshire Snacking and Ball Park jerky as well as increased MAP spending behind innovation and the base business.
We'll also see an impact from price reductions in some product lines to respond to commodity declines particularly in pork raw materials.
Our strategy is to protect margins over the long-term while maintaining competitive price premiums versus the competition in the market.
Our actions will set us up for a strong 2016 when we should reach the low end of our new range of 10% to 12% a full year earlier than originally planned.
Moving on to the Chicken segment operating income was $313 million with an 11.4% return on sales.
Operating income for the last 12 months exceeded $1.2 billion.
Volume was up 3% while average sales price was down 5% versus Q3 of 2014.
The Chicken segment should finish strong with an operating margin of around 12% for the year.
And despite disruptions caused by export bans and predicted supply increases we expect our Chicken segment to perform at or above the top end of its normalized range of 7% to 9% again next year.
We're pulling innovation projects forward and adding new ideas to the pipeline that include dark meat utilization.
Most of these products will fall into our Prepared Foods segment for branded items like Aidells Sausage Ball Park Flame Grilled Chicken Patties and a host of foodservice applications.
So we're excited about the opportunities there not just for the short term but for the longer term as well.
Turning to the Pork segment operating income was $64 million with a return on sales of 5.3%.
Volume was down 5% due to the sale of our Heinold business in Q1 and average sales price was down 28%.
Excluding the divestiture volumes were up 3% versus Q3 of 2014.
Exports continue to be a challenge.
A strong dollar lower prices from the EU and Canada and the West Coast port slowdown have been contributing factors.
Despite all of this we still came close to being in our normalized range for the quarter.
Expansion of the hog herd has been taking place as expected and it should continue into 2016.
With productivity improvement we expect 3% to 4% more hogs and more pork on the domestic market which should be a positive for our Prepared Foods segment.
Demand for pork is strong especially when consumers compare it to the price of beef.
So we expect our Pork segment to continue to do well and be in its normalized range for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016.
Our Beef segment continue to struggle this quarter resulting in an operating loss of $7 million.
Sales volume was down 4% while average sales price was up 7% versus Q3 of last year.
There were two issues in the Beef segment that caused the loss.
First was the West Coast port situation.
There was a significant amount of meat in the pipeline and we sold it at lower values in alternative markets rather than building inventory and tighten up our working capital.
This cost us about $84 million in the third quarter.
The second issue began in late May early June when feedlot margin erosion accelerated.
Feedlot slowed the pace of their cattle marketings from the normal 150 days to about 180 days.
As a result we haven't seen the anticipated summer push of cattle.
However the most recent cattle on feed report indicates that there are more cattle on feed than a year ago.
Because we run for margin and not for market share we're not willing to overpay for cattle and we've had to cut back on our hours at our plants resulting in inefficiencies and added costs.
In the short term we are negatively impacted but markets will equilibrate and conditions are expected to improve for the long term.
Pasture conditions have recovered dramatically and are supporting the rebuilding of the cattle herd.
The USDA cattle inventory report released July 24 indicated that beef heifer retention is at 106.5% of a year ago the largest percent since 1986.
Only 32.5% of the cattle on feed were heifers a record low.
The beef cattle herd should have the largest percentage increase since 1980 at 3% or 750 000 head year-over-year.
When those cattle come to market we'll be ready with the plants positioned close to high-density feeding areas the most efficient operations in the industry and the most knowledgeable experienced team in the business to run them.
So while the current headwinds in our Beef segment don't have a quick fix and challenges will continue into 2016 we still believe in the long-term viability of our Beef business.
And for the final segment report International was positive in Q3 with $1 million in operating income.
Average sales price was down 10.5%.
Volume was down 25% due to the sale of our Brazilian operation and weak demand in China partially offset by stronger demand in Mexico.
We're still in a holding pattern in China and the sale of our Mexico business closed on June 29 following the end of the third quarter.
Now let's move from the segments to consumer demand.
At foodservice dollar sales were up 3% for all commercial restaurants for both the latest year and the latest quarter.
The largest growth was in QSR Mexican with QSR chicken showing the second highest growth rate.
We expect consumption to continue growing at foodservice.
In the retail channel fresh chicken and pork remained highly advantage categories.
For the most recent year-over-year comparison fresh chicken volume was up 2% behind 4% higher pricing and fresh pork volume was up 1% with pricing up nearly 6%.
But it's important to note that in the near term the pork situation has changed dramatically.
In the last 13 weeks pork volume was up 18% with pricing down 12%.
The lower fresh pork pricing could translate into slower growth in fresh chicken as the gap in price per pound has narrowed nearly 50% with chicken having a $0.55 a pound advantage to the consumer today versus $1 a year ago.
Both ground and whole-muscle beef volume were down behind higher pricing.
Tyson Foods has retail expertise in fresh meats as well as numerous Prepared Foods and frozen value-added categories.
Retailers have recognized our capabilities by trusting us with an additional 30-category captaincies versus a year ago for a total of 95.
And they continue to rely on us to provide the insight and leadership to grow their categories.
Eight of our non-core business lines are showing positive dollar sales growth in the latest 52 weeks.
Five of the nine have realized dollar share growth over that same period.
Jimmy Dean Frozen Breakfast is a notable performer and grew at more than two times the category growth rate up 15% in the most recent 13-week period.
Additionally our retail value-added poultry business continues to improve and at a $0.55 (10:00) share is back to category growth levels that's set up well for long term growth.
I feel good about the strength of our brands moving into Q4 and 2016 and expect a continued share growth across the majority of our brands supported by our brands spend and closed management of fundamentals.
I'm also excited about our innovation and product pipeline.
We judge our success on a vitality index of the percentage of sales from products launched in the last three years.
And we're in the best-in-class range in both retail and foodservice.
We've got a great line-up of innovation coming in the next several months and in the next few years and I expect this to stay best-in-class.
One of the largest platform launches in Q4 is the national expansion of Hillshire Snacking.
This platform is highly incremental to the portfolio leverages one of our strongest brand equity and will drive category growth by bringing new consumers into the snacking section.
Consumer response has been very strong and will accelerate our support for this launch through Q4 as we drive consumer trail with targeted advertising.
Our second major platform launch in Q4 will take the Ball Park brand America's number one hotdog brand into the jerky category with a point of difference.
Our flame-grilled process delivers a uniquely tender jerky that both consumers and customers are enthusiastic about.
We have many more new products new platforms and innovations in the pipeline.
And I look forward to sharing those with you in the coming quarters.
As a wrap-up on my comment I'll say that in the near term we continue managing the acute issues of beef supply in exports while accelerating momentum in Chicken and Prepared Foods.
I think it's important to expand the lens and bring into view some things that are going our way in the year ahead.
We have leading brands in growing categories and we're supporting our brands to maintain our leadership position.
Prepared Foods should benefit from favorable raw material prices.
We have the number brands of fresh and frozen value-added chicken and we now have additional tray pack and fully-cooked capacity to help grow these businesses and build on recent market share trends.
Synergy capture is going very well.
We're on track for about $300 million this year and expect more than $400 million in 2016 and more than $600 million in FY2017.
We generated strong cash flow that we've used to pay down debt and we expect to reach our leverage ratios ahead of schedule.
We think our stock is a great value so we plan to start buying back shares in the fourth quarter again ahead of schedule.
Although we never expected perfect operating environment most things are going very well and we're positioned for long-term growth.
We're excited about what's ahead and we're confident in our ability to achieve at least 10% EPS growth next year and average at least 10% over time.
Dennis? Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
With record third quarter earnings at $0.80 per share on an adjusted basis this was our ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year EPS growth.
Adjusted operated income of $568 million was a 40% improvement over Q3 last year.
Our results were in line with our projections but how we got there was different than we expected.
Revenues grew 4% to $10.1 billion compared to the same quarter a year ago with adjusted return on sales of 5.6%.
Year-to-date adjusted EPS is $2.32 or a 12% increase compared to the prior year of $2.07.
Operating cash flow through three quarters was approximately $1.7 billion and we spent $636 million on capital expenditures which was $189 million greater than depreciation as we continue to invest in projects with a focus on delivering high ROIC.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 33.6%.
Subsequent to quarter-end we completed the sale of our Mexico operation and received $400 million in proceeds subject to a working capital true-up in Q4.
We used the proceeds to retire the 2015 notes last week.
Net debt to EBITDA for the past 12 months was 2.6 times.
Net debt to EBITDA was 2.2 times on a pro forma basis when including Hillshire's results for the past 12 months and adjusting net debt for the $400 million in proceeds related to the sale of our Mexico operation.
Net interest expense was $70 million during the third quarter.
Including cash of $471 million net debt was $6.8 billion down $688 million from Q2.
Total liquidity was $1.7 billion remaining above our goal of $1.2 billion.
For the quarter our average diluted shares outstanding were $414 million.
Now here are some thoughts on the full year of fiscal 2015 and some early thoughts on fiscal 2016.
Please note that although our accounting cycle results in a 53-week year in fiscal 2015 our outlook is based on a 52-week year.
We expect revenues of approximately $41 billion for fiscal 2015 which is over 9% growth compared to fiscal 2014.
This is driven primarily by a full year of Hillshire Brands results offset by reductions in our International operations.
We believe 2016 revenues should be similar to fiscal 2015 as we grow our current businesses to offset the impact of fiscal 2015 divestitures.
We expect to capture approximately $300 million from our Prepared Foods profit improvement initiatives and Hillshire Brands synergies in fiscal 2015 and more than $400 million in fiscal 2016.
Net interest expense should approximate $280 million for fiscal 2015 and $260 million in fiscal 2016.
We currently estimate our adjusted effective tax rate to be around 34.5% for fiscal 2015 and to be around 36% for fiscal 2016.
CapEx is expected to be $900 million for fiscal 2015 and between $900 million to $950 million in fiscal 2016 as we continue to focus on projects that will create long-term shareholder value.
We expect net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA of approximately two times by the end of fiscal 2015.
Prior to adjusting for any future share repurchases as well as changes in our stock price which will impact the dilution from our tangible equity units we expect our fiscal 2015 and 2016 diluted shares to approximate $413 million based on our share price at the end of Q3.
As we have demonstrated over the past several years our capital allocation decisions are governed by our disciplined focus on driving long-term shareholder value.
Our priorities for deploying the significant cash flows that our operations generate are for growing our businesses through organic growth and operation efficiency capital projects with attractive returns acquiring businesses that support our strategic growth objectives and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while maintaining plenty of liquidity and investment-grade ratings.
Following the Hillshire acquisition we shifted our priority for deploying discretionary cash toward debt reduction.
Strong cash flows have allowed us to make great progress toward fulfilling our deleveraging commitment and including the notes we paid off last week we have paid down more than $1.6 billion in debt since the acquisition.
Now that the balance sheet has been appropriately strengthened we're in a position to begin buying back our stock in Q4 which is a full quarter earlier than we had originally anticipated.
As Donnie mentioned we see compelling value in our shares.
Buying back our stock now is a great way to return cash to shareholders while enhancing long-term shareholder returns.
Our Chicken and Prepared Foods segments have driven great results so far in fiscal 2015.
However as a result of the unanticipated export disruptions experienced in our Beef segment in Q3 and its continued margin pressure we have modified our guidance to $3.10 to $3.20 adjusted EPS for fiscal 2015.
While not what we previously anticipated it still represents growth of 5% to 9% over fiscal 2014 despite the headwinds we faced.
Fiscal 2016 is poised for continued growth in operating income and EPS and we expect Chicken margins should be at or above the top end of its normalized range of 7% to 9%.
Prepared Foods should reach the low end of our new range of 10% to 12% which is a four year earlier than originally planned.
Pork margins should be in its normalized range of 6% to 8%.
Beef margins should be profitable but below its normalized range of 2.5% to 4.5%.
And we expect adjusted EPS growth of 10% plus compared to fiscal 2015.
In closing we are very focused on finishing the year strong.
Our team has been remarkable in coming together and successfully integrating the largest acquisition in our history to deliver another record year for Tyson 2.0.
Overall I am personally proud of the results our team has accomplished to propel us into 2016 and beyond.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you speakers.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is coming from the line of Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Sir your line is now open.
Hi.
I have one quick one and then a longer follow-up if I can.
So first one are you still looking for just to confirm 10% plus earnings growth next year? I was a little confused by the phrasing in the printed document.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Ken we are.
So here's the way I'm looking at it.
So even if we're a tick or two off this year when you look at our 2016 nothing has really fundamentally changed and hey while it's early I really expect that anything that we've given up this year would come back to us again next year as we deal with this acute issue in Beef.
So that's where we're thinking about it.
And then thinking of Beef if the main issues were marketing delays by feedlots which we can see in the data right and nonrecurring I guess port issues if we can doesn't that suggest the problems are more temporary in nature? Not the Beef doesn't have longer-term issues but you're getting cattle back next year.
The port issues will be cleaned up so I'm just curious is that the right way to look at it? Is it really a temporary issue? At this point next year you should be back to slightly below normal I guess.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Certainly we're looking at it.
I mean if you look at the most recent cattle on feed data we're going to have more cattle next year the calf crop's up.
Looks like it's going to be up about 1.2% this year which portends a fed slaughter of about 1.2% to 1.5% next year.
So more cattle are going to show up.
The way we're looking at it is once we get past and get through the  now what we're lingering  what's lingering are the supply issue now that we've dealt with the export issues.
While it's still a little bit too early to tell it feels like that if we go back and look at FY 2012 through FY 2014 our margins in Beef were about 1.5% 2% something like that and it feels like to me that 2016 is setting up to be about like that range.
And so again too early to say for sure but it feels like to us today that these issues are temporary and that next year will be about like what we saw in 2012 through 2014 something like that.
I'm just confused about one thing.
It's very helpful.
But we knew that the feedlot issue we kind of thought that marketing delays would be happening you can see that build up.
You still have price mix in Beef up 7% in the quarter.
So when these issues especially the port one that cropped up was that at the very end of the period? Or was that more evenly spaced throughout the three months? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So let me give you more detail on exactly what happened.
So late in May several of our export customers began telling us that they could not take delivery on their orders.
So if you'll remember about that time the cutout was at about $2.60-ish or so and it felt really toppy to us.
And so feeling weakness in the cutout we made the decision frankly to just resell that product and not take a chance.
So we sold it into other markets.
And when we look at the price differential between what we had expected to receive and what we ultimately resold it for it costs us about $84 million.
Now I hasten on to say I'm really glad we did it because looking back pricing continued to deteriorate all through the month of June and has continued to deteriorate.
You saw a little bump at 4th of July but we didn't have very good sell-through at all at the 4th of July holiday so the cutout has continued to erode.
So I'm glad we don't have an inventory problem to deal with.
Our inventory is in great shape.
And as soon as these markets can respond we'll be ready to do that.
Maybe even a finer point so you've got some items  I'll give you like a beef short rib or rib short rib or something like that they command quite a premium in some of the export markets.
And so these items today though we're having to roll those into our grinds.
And so you can't really see it in the cutout but that's a significant value decline on items like that.
So that's what we're dealing with now.
Again we think this issue is acute and hopefully we'll get on through it throughout this quarter.
Thanks Donnie.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
So Donnie maybe just continuing on the last point  upon questioning on Beef it sounds like the forward view for next year and beyond has not really changed.
Is that actually...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That is correct.
Okay.
So I wanted to just clear that up.
In Prepared Foods I mean the margin performance in the quarter was very strong well above our expectations and I believe the company's can you help us think about the outlook where you're guiding? It seems like pretty healthy sequential margin decline in the fiscal fourth quarter and next year only at the low end of the range  of the 10% to 12% range despite about $100 million incremental year-over-year synergies.
It looks like some healthy year-over-year cost tailwinds.
Just help us think through what the spending environment in Prepared Foods that's only getting to low end of that margin range.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So let's start with Q4.
So we're launching two new platforms the Hillshire Snacking and the Ball Park jerky and we're fully supporting those launches.
We're also going to have somewhere between $25 million and $30 million worth of AI impact lingering into Q4 so we'll deal with that.
We are increasing net spending for back-to-school in two three of our categories there.
And then we're going to be lower in the price in a couple of categories to make sure that we've managed our price gaps versus our competition to make sure that we stabilize or sustain our growth rates going into 2016.
So that's  Dennis? Adam I'd just add one fine point at Donnie's comment about AI.
That's related to the turkey part of our business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's correct.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No leg quarter in Chicken impact there at all just in Prepared Foods.
So that's our Q4.
As we go into the fall we expect to see very good growth in our categories.
The categories are very solid.
We want to regain some share in a couple three of our major categories and feel very good about  if you look at this year's average we'll probably average around 8% on sales in Prepared Foods for the year and then seeing a 200-basis-points-maybe-plus increase next year while growing that business.
That feels really good to us.
Okay.
And then maybe just a quick one for Dennis if I could.
Dennis can you walk us through how to think about the pace of share repurchases and planning just go into the market no ASRs or anything like that? Sure.
So the way we're thinking about it is we expect to break through our leverage target of 2 times.
So we see that as kind of a sweet spot for us to be in the 1.5 times to 2 times net debt-to-EBITDA.
So that being said that allows us to start buying back stocks so we're going to start this quarter as opposed to next.
And we're going to kind of watch that ratio.
So that's really kind of govern how much we do each quarter as we go forward but should be a fairly significant amount.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Farha Aslam of Stephens Inc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Could we just switch to Chicken for a moment? You've had a very strong quarter guided up for this year.
And going into next year there's a fair degree of confidence in your guidance despite the weak pricing in dark meat.
But your guidance is  previously was at least 9.5%.
Is your guidance today a change or pretty consistent with what you were saying before? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we've tried to stay really consistent at being at or above the top end of the range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So your guidance hasn't really changed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> So we could expect next year to be another strong year in Chicken? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We think so.
Farha if you think back over the last two years three years in our Chicken business we like the way that we balanced our portfolio across the various bird classes.
We spend a lot of time adjusting our pricing strategies to be able to reduce volatility and stabilize our margins.
We've been able to grow our value-added mix.
Our tray pack business is just doing great.
We've spent a lot of work and a lot of time and improved our cost structure.
I think I said on the last call we reduced our export exposure on leg quarters by 50% over the last five years and we'll continue to do that in the upcoming year.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we've got an opportunity inside some of our Prepared Foods category to move some dark meat there.
So the CapEx that we spend against our business is really paying off and making our plants very efficient.
So when you combine all that up it gives us a lot of confidence in our ability to stay at or above the top end of that range next year.
Inc.</span></strong> That's really helpful.
And then in Prepared Foods this is a bigger larger business for Tyson.
So could you help us understand kind of your amount of marketing spend you MAP spend kind of how you're thinking about this for this year and next year because clearly this is just not a commodity-related margin that we need to just look at.
We need to understand how you market these products.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you share with us how much your marketing expenditures are for this year and going into next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Farha we target a spend about 5% on sales on MAP in our retail brands.
That can fluctuate a little bit depending on the timing of innovation if we're making some price changes and that type of thing.
Well a notable example of that would be this Q4.
We're launching two new product lines.
We're supporting those with MAP.
We're increasing our MAP spend a bit this quarter for back-to-school.
So it'll fluctuate a little bit but over the year our target is 5%.
And I think it's really important for investors to know that we're going to maintain our investment in brand building.
And when a brand is ready for MAP spend we're not going to pull back from the brand-building commitment.
And that's why going into 2016 we feel very good about moving from 8% return on sales in Prepared Foods this year up to about 10% plus or so next year while maintaining a very good growth posture from that point forward.
We've got a great innovation pipeline behind these brands that we'll continue to deliver to the marketplace over time.
So that's kind of our whole view.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of David Palmer from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
A question on Pork.
Obviously you  the Street had your percentage margin in fiscal 3Q higher than where you came out.
That shortfall might have been higher for the Street than what you're internally budgeting.
But why was that margin down sequentially and from a year ago and you're saying 6% to 8% for 2016 how quickly can you get back within that range? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the real change for us we saw more imported pork into the U.S.
and frankly into other markets where we ship products.
A bit more than we expected and that caused our Pork margins to be a tad lower than what we thought.
As we look at domestic disappearance though when we look at the availability you got quite a bit of availability on the domestic market.
We think you got a lot of hogs coming to us as we move on into the fall so we expect that margin to expand a bit.
But I'd say the biggest impact on Q3 was probably AU or Canadian or other countries that export into pork markets had a little bit more pork on the market than what we expected.
And how much was Pork just the input benefit to the Prepared Foods segment itself? Obviously that's a big segment for the synergies but if you sort of tease out the implied Pork downstream benefit how much was that do you think? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David repeat that question again? I want to make sure I got it right.
There's a lot  there's presumably one of the benefits of a pressured pork market might be on the margins you get on Prepared Foods was that a benefit there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
We did see improvements in Prepared Foods due to lower raw material costs.
However just a quick reminder so far our Prepared Foods business still has long-term commitments with other pork producers for our pork raw material.
So we did see a market  pork raw materials are down.
It's a benefit through our Prepared Foods business.
There's really not been any synergy capture yet from an end-to-end basis because we'll maintain our commitment to the previous suppliers until those contracts run out and then we'll be able to have an additional synergy coming up.
I hope that helps.
But as we say in the earnings release in the Q it's $170 million for Q3 $200 million year-to-date.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Michael Piken from Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Just wanted to talk a little bit about within your Chicken business maybe the profitability of some of the various businesses and kind of  with the pressure on leg quarters and maybe even kind of the big-bird deboning if you could just sort of talk about the profitability of your various businesses and how you sort of see retail versus foodservice? That would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
So the foodservice demand  if you look at traffic traffic is flat to up slightly.
But we do feel right now that with gas prices moderating that will continue through the rest of the year.
So feel better about improved demand at foodservice.
In retail fresh chicken is still a clear winner against very very high beef prices.
Certainly the increase of pork on the market recently has tamed a little bit of Chicken's growth but it still feels really good at around 2% or so.
At one point we saw about 3% or so demand growth in Chicken.
But the retail growth still feels good.
It's relatively priced.
It's a very cheap protein for consumers.
When we look at our business we don't  we tried over time to build some internal hedges within our business to where  if we have pricing exposure to parts markets like breast meat or whatever we try to build into our production plans the ability to offset a good portion of that through purchases on the outside market.
That way we don't succumb to the movement of those markets.
If you look at our pricing versus the parts market we don't correlate very well to the breast meat and that type thing.
Probably the whole bird market is a better pricing indication of how our business will perform.
So if you look at our small bird business business is doing great.
We've moved to a lot more what we would call whole body form sales whether it's eight-piece cut up at foodservice or at retail rotisserie.
Those types of things continue to move the business forward there it feels good.
Tray pack of course is doing great.
Our big bird business is fine.
A lot of what we do is supply raw material through our big bird business into the value-added further processed items at both foodservice and at retail.
As I mentioned in my script in the last four weeks our retail frozen business is now back up to a 55 share which is where we were before we had our production problems.
So we feel great being able to grow that business.
Hopefully that's a pretty good recap of how we view our segments inside Chicken.
Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up I mean have you done any buy versus grow up with the weakness in leg quarters or is it still a cheaper feed cost more profitable for you to run your plants full out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
A big part of our  I'm going to say that this past quarter we probably bought something on the order of 90 loads of breast meat a week.
And what that does is it allows us of course to fulfill the demand in our value-added further processing lines without having a leg quarter to sell.
So it's key to stabilizing our margins.
When we build our production plans we look at forward demand and then balance to the nearest whole bird increment and back that back in to our production plan.
Might hasten on to say too that this year our production will be flat.
And next year we do not have a production increase in the plan.
And so we will continue to be able to buy raw material on the market and add value to it without the exposure to the leg quarter.
Next question? Our next question is coming from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I wanted to ask on the Beef division if you could give us an idea about where you were in terms of capacity utilization.
And then I think you've quantified the resale of the product that was expected to go to a certain export customers that had to be redirected due to the divergence export the pork issue but could you just  is there a way to quantify the lower run rate within your plant in terms of what that might have done to the margin overall? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
If I look at the industry capacity utilization we're probably on the low 70s and I think that's about where we are.
We tend to have our plants in areas where there's a little bit higher concentration in the cattle so we may be a point or two above that.
In terms of quantifying the impact I can't say  we know when we're running 34s and 36s a week in our plants that does cost us in  it raises the cost in our plant makes us a lot less efficient.
So it does have a cost to us.
I don't know that I can quantify that right off the bat but it does impact margin.
Okay.
So you would say it's fair to say it's not only the diversion of this product into a less lucrative market but the lower run rate within your plants that caused the headwind? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Diane (40:50) Both of those came into play in the quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're right.
That does have an impact.
Okay.
And then just as a quick follow-up.
I mean looking at the inventory report that came out I guess two weeks ago it looks like 2016 is going to be more back-end loaded so as we look to model 2016 you've given some data in terms of like what you think you will be for the full year but I would guess that the numbers are going to come on stronger in the second half and then really ramp into fiscal 2017 the numbers would indicate sort of mid-single digit increase in fiscal 2017 in terms of cattle supplies.
Is that how  are you reading it the same way we are? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes very much so.
When we look at the cattle on feed now the feedlots have slowed turns down but the cattle are still there.
So they're going to be coming into the market later on this fall but when you look at calf crop that's building that's really a latter part of 2016 and then on into 2017 issue.
So I think we're modeling it exactly the same way.
I would think that if you look out over time and so I'm going to go 2016 over 2015 you're probably looking at 1.5% or so increase in supply.
Based on heifer retention we're seeing today kind of feels like something like a 1.5% 2% I feel a little bit better than that 2017 over 2016 but it's a little bit early to make that call.
But I certainly think you're right.
You've got  it's going to be in the back half of 2016 and then incrementally better in 2017 in terms of beef supply.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Hey Donnie there's a lot of commentary today on the call and in the press release about bigger supplies you're talking about it in Beef particularly more cattle in 2017.
And then in the press release in Chicken I sensed a little more conservatism or caution regarding supplies maybe exceeding demand.
And then in Pork you're talking about greater hog supplies too and all this in a context of a much stronger dollar which I think has kind of a more of a permanent impact on exports.
So I understand all of the benefits of the capacity utilization for Beef and Pork but is there a concern that a year from now you might be looking at an environment with a lot of backup of domestic supply because of weaker export and maybe just a much weaker domestic pricing as a result.
Is that a concern? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So what we see in 2016 we look at protein availability or the per capita consumption if you will of protein up about 2.3%.
We think that supplies are backing up here near term.
But as we look forward you've got increased demand for protein on a global basis.
As we look at Pork for example in 2016 you're probably going to see less pressure from outside markets next year than you saw this year which should improve Pork demand.
If you look at what's happened in China China has significantly reduced their sow herd.
If you look at what day old pigs and pig replacement prices are doing and what Pork is doing for example at retail pork prices and hog prices are increasing in China which tells us that there's likely to be more demand for pork in China next year than this year.
Again this Beef deal you've got very record high-price spreads at retail.
And I think with the slow growth in the beef herd that we're projecting and call that 1.5% 2% or so we think Beef is going to maintain an umbrella if you will at premium price if you will to the other proteins.
By the way more pork on the domestic market is good news for our Prepared Foods business certainly.
And so the real key is Chicken.
And when you look at Chicken we plan to use our buy versus grow strategy to make sure that the 2% or so in domestic availability that we expect next year that we can buy a lot of that raw material and be able to add value to it and protect our margins and stabilize our margins like we talked about a little earlier in Q&amp;A.
So that's really the way we look at the landscape in front of it.
And that's what gives us a lot of cause to think.
Fundamentally nothing in our 2016 view has changed.
Right.
Okay.
One follow-up the pipeline that you said backed up in Beef and then kind of flow through at a lower price is that all done or is there still a pipeline so to speak a product that needs to clear for export? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So the clearing part is over and we basically resold that product into other markets where we could move it.
Now the one issue that still lingers which and by the way you wouldn't be able to necessarily see this in the cutout is some of these items like beef plates and rib short ribs and short ribs and flap tails and those kinds of things that normally we have a good sale for into export markets that while demand is down particularly in Asia these markets are getting rolled into grind  these items are getting rolled in the grinds.
So that still has an impact on our price realization.
The supply situation has continued to linger as feedlots.
We looked at the cattle on feed numbers in June to understand they were stretching out their turns.
The cattle on feed report in July indicated they continue to stretch out turns.
So there's a near-term squeeze there if you will on the supply.
But a lot of the demand issues that were very acute are behind us and we think we'll be able to see our price realization increase a little bit over time as some of these export markets begin to equilibrate a bit.
Now the flow off the coast is much improved.
Port of LA is great.
We're still seeing a little bit of difficulties down in Oakland but the flow is beginning to get much more normal if you will to what we're seeing before these port disruptions.
And drop credits? How are those trending right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Drop credit is down and that does affect our margins and a lot of that has to do with  if you want to call the economic impact of the economy slowing down if you will a bit in Asia.
That will correct over time.
We think that  if you look at  and I don't want to get into a whole bunch of detail on drop credit items but you've got two big categories your variety meats and then your hides in both of those prices are weak.
So we should see that come back over time.
I suspect that would be a fairly slow climb out of the hole.
Got it.
Thank you Donnie.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ken Zaslow of Bank of Montreal.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So a couple of questions.
One just semantics if you're seeing that nothing changed in 2016 and your language was previous to this  that you'd say at least 10% on 2015 numbers.
Why not change your language to indicate that 2016 nothing has changed because you're keeping the same thing of at least 10% growth on top of your long-term growth.
Is there something to read into this? I just want to be perfectly clear here.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
It's just early Ken.
I mean frankly the situation in Beef has not changed through July.
I want to spend a little bit more time looking at that.
Hey I'd like to get this crop in the bin.
And so we typically wait until this next quarter in Q4 before we get more clarity on that.
It's just early.
And what are the signs that you can point to over the next 36 months that would either give you more confidence or less confidence in the 2016 outlook? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I feel great about Prepared Foods.
And we are lowering prices in a couple of categories and I'm sure looking for the volume response to that.
That would continue to give us  that would be the confidence we need there.
So I feel great about that.
I feel good about Chicken.
We obviously would love to see some of these export bans removed which  third quarter has particularly hurt us a bit in Arkansas.
So I'd love to see that improve.
But there again that doesn't necessarily change the outlook for 2016.
So it really is this unexpected acute issue in Beef and getting a little bit more clarity on how that's going to turn out.
That's the one.
Synergy is still great.
If you look at the things coming up we've got again great brands and great categories.
We're going to have a full year of our new tray pack operation in South Georgia.
We've got plenty of fully-cook capacity now to be able to grow both foodservice and retail and fully-cooked.
We're going to have plenty of hogs around us.
That feels good.
Certainly it will help the raw materials in Prepared Foods.
I think beef prices are going to continue to provide an umbrella.
I mentioned synergies we're generating a lot of cash which gives us a lot of opportunity to pay buyback stock or invest in the business.
So we've got a lot of things going for us.
We just really want to see this beef thing play itself out for another month or two.
And philosophically as you shift away from commodities and take more of a valuated approach what would it take for you to just put Beef and Pork on the market and just say I'd rather just focus on Prepare Foods and Chicken and that's what we're really trying to shift that portfolio towards.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well if you look at over the very very long term we still feel good certainly about Pork in our portfolio.
We feel good about having Beef as a long-term business.
So we really look at this thing with a very very long-term view and so it still feels good to us for them to be in the portfolio.
So no indication that you'd even think about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
And my last very last question.
Again as you said we would buy a fairly significant amount of stock.
How do I quantify that? Again Ken the way we're looking at it is we're trying to keep net debt to EBITDA around that 2 times level.
So we de-levered to the point where we're pretty comfortable looking at first and foremost growth through CapEx organic type of growth expenditures.
But then think about free cash flow.
It's $1 billion.
It's going to grow over time.
So that's going to  so to the extent we don't do much more deleveraging then it gives us more options in terms of buying back stock and working on dividends too.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Tim Ramey of Pivotal Research Group.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
We've talked a lot about the export demand and I assume that some of these specialty items were big into Korea.
Are you just seeing weak economic activity in Korea and so that's backing up through the system for these otherwise high-price high-value-added items that are now going into grind? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> By and large that's right.
I wouldn't necessarily limit the softness in demand we're seeing just to Korea.
There is softness across broader Asia.
And as you know those are great markets for a lot of those items.
So a little bit broader than just Korea.
And Donnie was any of this attributable to kind of the restart of Dakota City or did that really occurred just as expected? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It has occurred as expected.
I think we mentioned in our last call that we had some start-up issues that we were working through.
That did not  the start-up issues that we worked through in Q3 did not impact earnings beyond what we would have expected them to.
All that came as planned.
It really was this acute issue of making the decision to get that moving off the West Coast so we wouldn't have to deal with it in even softer markets.
And just finally on  always good to hear you managed for margin not market share.
We love that.
But does that mean that at least in maybe the 12 months' outlook there might be an opportunity to kind of trim back capacity utilization or improved capacity utilization by shutting a line here or there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Tim we look at a lot of those things constantly in our efforts to manage margins.
Too early to say about any potential moves we might have inside the system but certainly we're working through the math on a lot of those issues.
And as you know we get that down to about the fourth decimal point to make that call.
So we're looking at all that don't see the opportunity yet.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
The next one is coming from the line of Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> So first on Beef I just want to be clear.
So we all calculate industry margin and based on obviously publicly available data your Beef results underperformed that significantly I think the first time in like seven or eight years.
So I understand the issue that you explained clearly but what I'm  I just want to understand if it's a company-specific issue like it looks like from the outside.
And maybe if you can give us a little more color on what's company-specific right? So everything you were saying the way you were saying it so far seemed like the rest of the industry should be dealing with those issues too but the numbers that I'm looking at for the industry point to your performance being way worse.
So can you just help me clarify that? What could we be missing? I mean maybe it's just that the cut out doesn't reflect some of these issues yet perhaps? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think large  what you just said Akshay is largely correct.
It's that you wouldn't be able to look at cut out and see the price differences between the revenue that we get from some of these export items and what we then get for it when we roll it into $50s (57:04).
So that's part of the issue.
I don't know  I don't want to comment on what the industry says or what they may show.
But we felt like the right thing to do was to make sure that we didn't have an inventory problem because it felt like to us that going into Memorial Day to feel the cutout getting toppy like we did in Memorial Day it felt like the right thing for us to do was to resell all that product.
Now that may have hurt us worse than what the cutout or what the industry indices would have indicated but it was the right thing to do for our business.
We don't have excess inventory.
If you look at Beef inventories I don't what they're up 20% 30% or so ours is not and that feels really good because we'll be able to immediately respond when the market conditions give us an opportunity.
Inc.</span></strong> So overall you'd characterize the beef issue as something impacting the industry equally right? You've taken some strategic actions which you believe are putting you in a better position but overall this is an issue that everybody in the industry is dealing with.
You're not dealing with it more so than anybody else correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Akshay I don't know what other people are doing in the industry or how they're dealing with it.
I think I can safely say that our market share in Asia is historically pretty large.
And so maybe we were impacted greater because of this issue based on that.
But I don't have any comment about how it may be impacting us versus the rest of the industry or whatever.
I'm just telling you what happened to our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then moving to Prepared Foods is there any way you can give us a sense of how the businesses are doing on an organic basis.
Obviously you're still going through the first year of the deal.
The numbers look good this quarter but just help me the way I'm thinking about it is you have $300 million in synergies right this year that is going to help in that business.
You have now what you've quantified which is very helpful $320 million in lower raw material cost.
That's a positive $600 million tailwind.
And on my numbers your EBIT is increasing couple of hundred million.
Now you're investing a lot.
So can you give me a sense of one what's the base business doing like from a growth perspective market share overall just broadly? And two can you quantify some of these MAP investments? Give us some sense.
Is it $50 million $100 million a couple hundred million and what do you expect from a growth perspective next year to get a return on these investments you're making? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So hopefully this perspective will help Akshay.
So if you look at our categories at retail  by the way our foodservice business is great.
If you look at QSR Mexican and some of the other growth in foodservice that plays very well into our portfolio.
So we feel great about foodservice demand and our ability to continue to grow that part of our Prepared Foods business.
At retail if you look back over this last quarter we grew sales in eight of our nine categories and grew share in five of nine.
So if you just look at the category growth that gives you a good indication of where we are.
Now I can't tell you that in Q3 we lost share in a couple of categories that are meaningful to us.
And so in Q4 we're going to reduce the price gap between us and the competition to regain that volume.
There's always a balance between managing new gross margin and managing new market share.
And so we're going to reduce those price gaps to maintain our market share because we  or to get some market share back because we want to go into the fall with a position in the  well positioned in the categories for growth into 2016.
So again on the Prepared Foods synergies about 90% of those so I think you're seeing that right about 90% of those or so are in  of the total synergies are in Prepared Foods.
And really what we're doing is just re-rating our cost structure for that business down and then we'll take advantage of the raw material improvements over next year to have plenty of firepower on our map and to make sure we keep our pricing gap right so we'll continue to grow the business all the while expanding our margins by a couple of hundred basis points over what we did this year.
So we feel really good about that.
And our last question is coming from the line of Brett Hundley from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
And thanks for fitting me in.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
I wanted to ask you a question on Chicken and get a more  maybe a more definitive sense Donnie of where things can fall out for you guys in that business next year and maybe just how good Chicken can be? You've given a lot of talking points but I want to understand is there  in your mind really is a definitive floor at 7% if you can do another 12% next year I want to understand that range of outcomes just given everything that you talked about about maybe being a little bit more supply on the market relative to demand Pork continuing to be an incremental competitor to Chicken at retail but then your guys instituting buy versus grow reducing your exposure to leg quarters.
I thought it was really interesting.
Your comment on dark meat utilization and Prepared Foods and maybe you can give us a sense of whether that can be sizeable or not for you? But anyway just wanted to understand those different talking points.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Brett I think you've absolutely got the right list.
I'll tell you and I'm probably going to frustrate you a little bit with my answer I'm sorry but it's just a little bit too early for us.
Really I'd like to get the crop in the bin before we can get more definitive.
But I'm very comfortable saying that in FY 2016 we're going to be at or above the top end of our new 7% to 9% range.
For all the reasons you mentioned reducing our exposure to leg quarters we've done a great job in balancing and changing our pricing structures to be able to balance our margins and stabilize our margins while growing the business.
We feel great that we've got the portfolio inside of Chicken appropriately sized across all the bird classes.
That feels good.
And a key component to making 2016 a great year is we're going to have a full year of our new tray pack plant in South Georgia and we got plenty of capacity to be able to grow our retail value-added fully-cooked business and our fully-cooked foodservice business.
And we see opportunities for demand to increase there.
So we've got a lot of components that are in our favor.
And it's really the combination of the work over the last three or four years to put all of the pieces together to be able to stabilize our margins and then grow the business with that new stabilized margin structure.
So I think you're all there.
I feel great about 2016.
More details to come on our next call.
Okay.
And then just lastly either Donnie or Dennis.
Does your M&amp;A desires act as a governor at all on your share repurchase plans? And can you go back over kind of what your landscape looks like across M&amp;A? You've talked about branded before you talked about value-added chicken.
I want to be sure does your M&amp;A plan do they extend in the packaged foods or is it  are you just looking at protein? So M&amp;A as the governor on share repo and then just looking at what your landscape is specifically for M&amp;A.
I'll start with the M&amp;A as the governor.
What we're trying to do is design our capital structure and cash flow and capital allocation in a way that allows us to have kind of the best of both worlds.
So think about generating a billion or more in free cash flow while investing heavy in organic growth in our existing businesses but also maintaining a solid investment grade rating and good liquidity and then just as importantly having quite a bit of incremental debt capacity to make acquisitions.
So with that I'll turn it over to Donnie to talk about strategy a little bit.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So the M&amp;A strategy is very consistent; value-added poultry Prepared Foods and at some point International.
And that's our focus.
And obviously we want to continue to grow the branded value-added part of our portfolio to continue to de-risk and de-commoditize our portfolio and make sure that our businesses is very very consumer centric.
So that's the plan forward.
I think Dennis did a great job on the  whether or not that's a governor or not.
We don't think of either/or we think of and.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> So thanks  okay.
I think that's all the time we have for today.
Hey listen we're going to stay focused on our long-term growth of delivering at least 10% annual EPS growth over time by growing our value-added in Prepared Foods businesses and supporting our brands to maintain a leadership position.
Thanks for joining us today and have a great week.
Thank you speakers.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Tyson Foods Quarterly Investor Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
If you have objections you may disconnect at this point.
Now I will turn the meeting over to your host Jon Kathol VP of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Tyson Foods conference call for the fourth quarter and 2015 fiscal year.
On todays call are Donnie Smith President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Leatherby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections.
I encourage you to read the news release issued earlier this morning and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the risks that can affect our business.
We use non-GAAP results to provide investors with a better understanding of the Companys operating performance by excluding the impact of certain non-recurring items affecting comparability.
This morning we will be referring to our fourth quarter and fiscal year adjusted results.
As a reminder fiscal 2015 included 53 weeks with the additional week falling in the fourth quarter.
Because our guidance for fiscal 2015 was on a 52-week basis the adjusted results that we will be referring to exclude the impact of the additional week.
Please refer to todays news release for a full reconciliation of our GAAP to adjusted results.
To ensure we get to as many of you as possible during the Q&amp;A session please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in the queue for any additional questions.
Ill now turn the call over to Donnie Smith.
Thanks Jon.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today.
Id like to begin with a recap of another record year.
With record adjusted earnings of $3.15 a share it was our fourth consecutive year of EPS growth.
Adjusted sales were $40.6 billion a record for the sixth consecutive year.
Adjusted operating income was a record $2.3 billion an increase of 37% over last year and the third consecutive year of growth.
Cash flows from operations were a record $2.6 billion nearly doubling our previous record set in 2010.
And the three-year compound annual growth rate for adjusted EPS is 17%.
Were certainly pleased with those accomplishments especially in light of knowing we achieved them despite unusual challenges throughout the year.
The West Coast port slowdown was a significant disruption for Beef and Pork exports resulting in a $90 million negative effect.
There was an avian influenza outbreak that closed several export markets for our Chicken business and affected our turkey operations for a total impact of $139 million.
And in the last couple of weeks of the fiscal year there was an unprecedented decline in the live cattle futures market resulting in $70 million in losses from mark-to-market positions and an LCM inventory charge.
We did not adjust our earnings for the nearly $300 million of these challenges costs and we still produced record adjusted sales earnings operating income and cash flows.
Meanwhile we paid down debt bought back $250 million of our stock and successfully integrated two companies into Tyson 2.0 while capturing $322 million in total synergies.
We have a great team at every level of the organization and I want to thank them for staying focused and delivering despite all the challenges and distractions.
Now Id like to give you some color on our operating segments.
But keep in mind that adjusted operating income and adjusted return on sales for the fourth quarter and for the year exclude the impact of the additional week in fiscal 2015.
Please refer to our press release for non-GAAP reconciliations.
The Prepared Foods segment produced fourth quarter operating income of $171 million with a 9.2% return on sales.
Volume for the quarter was up 74% reflecting the addition of Hillshire Brands and average sales price was up 15%.
For the fiscal year operating income was $636 million with a return on sales of 8.3%.
Volume for the year was up 78% again reflecting the additional volume from Hillshire and average sales price was up 20%.
The majority of our synergies were captured within the Prepared Foods segment as a result of operational improvement $81 million for the quarter and $285 million for the year.
And not all those synergies are falling to the bottom line because were investing some in the MAP spending and pricing to grow our brand and launch new platforms.
In fiscal 2016 well ramp up our MAP spend even more behind the Hillshire Snacking and Ball Park jerky launches and the new Jimmy Dean Shine On marketing campaign.
Also in the fiscal year well continue to work on optimizing our Prepared Foods operations as you saw in the press release last week.
And we expect return on sales for the segment to be near the low end of the 10% to 12% range in fiscal 2016.
In the Chicken segment for the fourth quarter operating income came in at $344 million with a 12.3% return on sales.
Volume for the quarter was up 3% while average sales price was down 2%.
For the year operating income was $1.3 billion with a return on sales of 12%.
Volume for the year was up 2% while pricing was down 1.6%.
Weve proven that by purchasing up to 10% of our chicken meat on the open market and further processing it into value-added convenience foods we can produce strong stable returns even in times of falling commodity chicken pricing.
Our Chicken business model is primarily value-added as a large branded component and is anchored in consumer insights and demand and has only a small amount of commodity exposure.
To help you understand the value-added nature of our Chicken business Ill break it down into the categories on a sales dollar basis.
About 52% is consumer retail.
This includes products such as fresh tray pack deli rotisserie frozen strips and nuggets anytizers Tyson Grilled &amp; Ready and IQF portions.
Demand for these products is driven by three factors brand convenience and freshness.
About 16% of our chicken sales are in foodservice national accounts and include products like eight-piece cut up and batter breaded par fried and fully-cooked tenders wings and breast strips.
Demand is driven by quality.
These are prep and flavor and national account consumers are often on the leading edge of our innovation.
About 17% of our sales are in foodservice value-added and like national accounts include batter breaded par fried and fully-cooked tenders wings breast strips and patties.
These products are typically sold through broad line distributors to foodservice operators and brand is very important to them as it signifies quality and consistency.
Only about 15% of our sales are commodity products such as bulk leg quarters CDP [ph] breast meat and renderings.
Our commodity leg quarter volume is less than half of what it was a few years ago and were working to continue reducing our commodity exposure through growth in consumer demand for dark meat and our buy versus grow strategy.
Had we grown all the birds we needed rather than buying parts on the market we would have had an additional 4 million pounds of leg quarters a week to sell.
Our Chicken business is balanced and diversified and we have the flexibility to move where the consumer is going.
Weve created a model thats about 90% customer and consumer pull with only about 10% of ourselves being pushed out into the market.
Our customers value our innovation consumer insights broad product portfolio and category leadership all of which help them grow their businesses.
This is how were building long-term growth and stability and why we believe our Chicken segment will produce returns exceeding 10% in fiscal 2016.
Turning to our Beef segment in the fourth quarter operating income was a negative $20 million resulting in an operating margin that was negative by 0.5%.
Volume was down by 1.5% and average sales price dropped by 6%.
For the year operating income was a negative $53 million with return on sales of minus 0.3%.
Volume was down for the year about 2.2% because we processed fewer cattle.
The average sales price was up 7% for the year.
We saw improvement and a return to profitability in Beef in the fourth quarter but then an unprecedented dramatic decline in the live cattle futures market occurred in the last two weeks of the quarter resulting in the $70 million loss I mentioned earlier.
With cattle supplies flat to perhaps slightly higher in fiscal 2016 the Beef business should approximate the low end of the newly revised normalized range of 1.5% to 3%.
Our Pork operating income was $88 million with a 7.2% return on sales in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of our Heinold business sold in Q1 sales volume was up about 7% while sales prices were down 23% for the quarter.
For the fiscal year Pork operating income was $373 million with a return on sales of 7.2%.
Volume was up about 4% for the year excluding Heinold while average sales price was down 16%.
Were expecting fiscal 2016 to be another solid year for the Pork segment with returns in the 6% to 8% range.
You might have noticed in our press release this morning that were now reporting our Chicken operations in China and India in other results.
The business in India while very small is profitable and has good potential.
While we still believe in Chinas long-term potential its operations havent achieved profitability.
Given the ongoing losses generated in this business record low chicken pricing the slower economic outlook for China and our changing strategy we recorded an impairment charge of $169 million in the fourth quarter.
Weve been doing a significant amount of work on our go forward strategy for China and India and well share our plans with you in the coming months.
Lets move on to our view of domestic consumer demand and our innovation efforts.
At foodservice traffic is expected to be flat to up just slightly.
Non-commercial and fast casual are driving traffic growth while breakfast and snacking continue as the growing daypart categories.
Were diversified across all dayparts all types of foodservice operations and across the types of products we sell.
We have several new product launches and platform expansions planned for 2016.
Because theyre customer specific I cant go into details but its fair to say were broadening our thought process within Prepared Foods and value-added chicken to provide some exciting innovation for our customers that will meet consumers breakfast and snacking needs.
In the retail channel we are seeing increase featuring of Pork as pricing has come down.
For the most recent year-over-year comparison fresh Pork volume was up 6% on 2% lower pricing.
Fresh chicken volume was up 1.5% on 3% higher pricing.
The difference becomes more pronounced when looking at the past month with Pork volume up 11% on 13% lower pricing.
And fresh chicken volume down 2% with about a 2% increase in pricing.
Whole muscle and ground Beef saw volume increases in the past month as pricing finally began to ease up.
In our Retail business we have advantaged brands in advantaged categories and weve regained share in Tysons value-added poultry following operational disruptions last year.
Weve also worked on closing pricing gaps to competitors in core Jimmy Dean and Hillshire farm items to regain or to maintain share.
When we look at our retail IRI data we focus on what we call our core non-business lines which are the Hillshire Farm smoked sausage Aidells smoked sausage Hillshire Farm lunchmeat Jimmy Dean Frozen Protein Breakfast Jimmy Dean Breakfast Sausage Wright and Tyson brand bacon Ball Park hotdogs Tyson brand value-added poultry and State Fair and Ball Park corn dogs.
These are the biggest volume and dollar driving categories for our Retail business and we focus our resources to ensure these brands and categories stay strong.
Looking at the core none sales dollars for the period ending November 8 whether youre looking at data for the latest month the latest quarter or the latest year grew in the 1% to 3% range.
Volume while flat for the year grew 2% to 4% for the latest month and the latest quarter.
So we feel good about the health of our core retail branded business and were adding new platforms and sustaining innovation on top of the core.
I mentioned the Hillshire Snacking and Ball Park jerky launches and both are doing very well.
The end market performance of Hillshire Small Plates is far exceeding projections; and the velocity of Hillshire grill chicken bites is up substantially and performing well against competitors.
The Ball Park jerky lunch is going very well too and we believe we have a superior product that will drive repeat purchases.
We kicked off heavy C-store channel selling in mid-October and also began a national media and PR last month.
Innovation will be our growth driver in 2016 across our retail categories and well talk about specific products at our CAGNY presentation in February.
But one thing Id like to tell you about now is the upcoming launch of Jimmy Dean bacon in early calendar 2016.
Of course we have Wright brand bacon which is our premium stack-pack thick-cut bacon and we also have our Tyson bacon which is a very good quality mainstream product with a loyal following.
But we see there to expand loyalty for our premium L-Board bacon behind the Jimmy Dean brand bolstered by our deep capabilities in sourcing making and selling bacon.
Positioning Jimmy Dean in the bacon category is a great revenue synergy that came out of the integration of Tyson and Hillshire.
And to be clear we dont include revenue synergies in our total synergy numbers.
Speaking of total synergies that is going extremely well and we see more opportunity.
Were raising our synergy estimates for fiscal 2016 to more than $500 million and for fiscal 2017 to more than $700 million.
The additional synergies will allow for more investment in innovation new product launches and strengthening our brands.
2015 was our first full year of having Tyson Foods and Hillshire Brands together as one company.
At the time of the acquisition Ive said one plus one equals three and were seeing that in our results.
The integration has gone extremely well; were just scratching the surface on what we can accomplish.
I dont think theres a food company thats better positioned than we are.
We will capitalize on the opportunities weve created.
2016 should be another record year with projected adjusted EPS of $3.50 to $3.65 a share.
Dennis? Thanks Donnie and good morning everyone.
Fiscal 2015 was another record year as we proved our diversified business model can generate strong steady cash flows.
Our operating cash flow of $2.6 billion allowed us to invest in our businesses reduce debt and resume meaningful share repurchases as we bought back $250 million worth of shares in the fourth quarter and $200 million so far in Q1 of fiscal 2016 for a combined total of $450 million and more than 10 million shares.
Fiscal 2015 adjusted revenues were $40.6 billion representing 9% growth compared to prior year driven by a full year of Hillshire Brands results offset by reductions from divestitures in our international operations.
Total company adjusted return on sales for fiscal 2015 was 5.5% and adjusted operating income was approximately $2.3 billion representing a 37% increase over fiscal 2014.
Our adjusted earnings of $3.15 per share represents a 7% increase over our previous record of $2.94 last year.
As we described in our press release this morning live cattle futures experienced a large and rapid decline in September.
This negatively impacted us in the fourth quarter by $70 million from losses on mark-to-market open derivative positions and lower cost or market inventory charges which cost us approximately $0.11 per share.
To be clear we have not added this back for adjusted EPS purposes.
We expect $218 million on capital expenditures for the fourth quarter and $854 million for the full fiscal year.
This outpaced our depreciation by $245 million in fiscal 2015 as we continue to invest in projects with a focus on delivering high return on invested capital.
On a GAAP basis our effective tax rate in fiscal 2015 was 36.3%.
On an adjusted basis this was 34.3%.
In the fourth quarter we completed the sale of our Mexico operations and received $374 million in net proceeds which were used to retire the 2015 notes.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA for the past 12 months was two times as expected.
And on a gross debt to adjusted EBITDA basis this measure was 2.2 times.
Net interest was $69 million during the fourth quarter and $284 million for fiscal 2015.
Including cash of $688 million net debt was $6 billion down $1.7 billion from Q4 of 2014.
Total liquidity was $1.9 billion well above our goal of $1.2 billion.
Our average diluted shares for fourth quarter was $411 million.
Now looking forward here are some thoughts on fiscal 2016.
We believe sales should be around $41 billion which represents approximately 1.5% organic growth as we offset the impact of fiscal 2015 divestitures.
We expect to capture more than $500 million in synergies primarily from our Prepared Foods profit initiatives and Hillshire Brands synergies.
Net interest expense should approximate $255 million.
We currently estimate our adjusted effective tax rate to be around 35%.
CapEx is expected to approximate $900 million as we continue to focus on projects that will create long-term shareholder value.
Prior to adjusting for any additional share repurchases as well as changes in our stock price which will impact the dilution from our tangible equity units we expect our diluted shares in Q1 2016 to approximate 403 million based on our share price at the end of Q4.
This morning we reported our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by 50% from $0.10 to $0.15 per share on our Class A common stock payable on December 15.
This increase brings our dividend to $0.60 per share annually for Class A shares from $0.40.
Beginning in fiscal 2017 we expect to increase future dividends for Class A shares by at least $0.10 per share annually.
This increase and our commitment to steady future dividend increases demonstrates our confidence in the enduring strength and stability of our cash flow.
As we have demonstrated our capital allocation priorities are governed by our disciplined focus on driving long-term shareholder value.
Our priorities for deploying the significant cash flows that our operations generate are for growing our businesses through organic growth in operational efficiency capital projects with attractive returns acquiring businesses that support our strategic objectives and returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends all while maintaining plenty of liquidity investment grade credit ratings and strong incremental debt capacity.
We are confident that we will deliver continued growth in operating income and EPS in fiscal 2016.
Chicken margin should be above 10%.
Prepared Foods margin should be near the low end of our 10% to 12% expected range.
Pork margin should be in the normalized range of 6% to 8%.
Beef margin should approximate the low end of the new normalized range of 1.5% to 3%.
Net debt to EBITDA should remain around two times as we return most of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And we expect adjusted EPS in the range of $3.50 to $3.65 which represents 11% to 16% growth compared to fiscal 2015.
In closing this has been an amazing year for Tyson 2.0.
I would like to thank our team members for delivering record sales record operating income record EPS and record cash flows.
I am proud of what weve accomplished together and look forward to our continued growth.
Ill now turn it over to Donnie for some closing remarks.
Weve wrapped up a record setting year at Tyson Foods; were off to a great start for 2016.
From where we sit today it looks like it will be another record year as we continue to deliver on our goal of at least 10% annual EPS growth over time.
Were capitalizing on the benefits of our diverse portfolio and our branding power.
Our Prepared Foods business is performing very well and well be capturing even more synergies this year giving us fuel to drive growth.
Our Chicken business is strong.
Pork continues to do well.
And we think the worst is behind us in Beef.
We bought back $250 million of our stock in Q4 and $200 million so far in Q1.
Were projecting strong cash flow and a positive outlook that will allow us to continue buying back our shares through 2016.
And as Dennis said weve just increased our regular dividend by 50% and plan to continue increasing it by at least $0.10 per share annually.
Weve got a lot of reasons to be confident.
And we think 2016 is going to be another great year of producing strong shareholder returns.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator were ready to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Adam Samuelson at Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
So I guess my question Donnie on guidance and a couple of different pieces here.
First I want to understand the guidance for the Prepared Food margins near 10% despite the fact that youve got about $175 million of year-over-year synergies and very sizeable year-over-year raw material tailwinds.
Can you help us think about the scale of SG&amp;A and reinvestment that youre doing in the business? And then second in Chicken help us bridge the 12% margins you did this year to around 10% plus that youre expecting for next year? Sure Adam.
So on the Prepared Foods part will take that first.
We will be -- typically we spend about 5% of sales in MAP.
Were going to be spending a little over that in this year as we focus on the Hillshire Snacking and the Jimmy Dean launch and the new Jimmy Dean marketing campaign.
Were also investing in price gaps versus the competition.
Weve got some room in Jimmy Dean Roll Sausage.
Weve got price gaps in Hillshire Farm smoked sausage.
And we need to get our lunchmeat business.
Weve just moved back the line pricing there as now weve got the turkey raw materials coming back to us from the AI.
So its very important for us that we regain our volume growth in these categories.
So were going to be investing in trade and investing in MAP spending to drive our growth in those categories.
Switching over to chicken youve got a pretty cheap environment now with fresh meat trading pretty regularly below $0.90 a pound delivered.
Youve got leg quarter markets trading sub $0.20 and depending on how disjointed your logistics are youre probably FOB the plant somewhere in the $0.12 to $0.13 range.
Thats a pretty soft environment for pricing.
Weve got a lot of volume that is in RFP now.
And so we feel very comfortable that well be better than 10% but we want to be cautiously optimistic until we get through this RFP season on our chicken business.
But let me hasten on to say that our brands give us a good bit of insulation from our competition plus our quality service and innovation helps set us apart.
And weve done a lot in the last four years to optimize our poultry portfolio and to structure the pricing models within each part of that portfolio to deliver stable results.
And thats what we think will happen again this year.
Its very helpful.
And then maybe as a follow-up can you help us think through the export assumptions that youre thinking about for really chicken beef and pork and how those are influencing your margin outlook? Yes.
So in chicken weve actually forecasted sub $0.20 leg quarters for the rest of the fiscal year inside of our projection.
So if we get a feel of these AI closed markets to open up that could be a little upside for us but we dont have that baked into the plan.
As we look at pork and beef were going to continue to see based on a strong dollar competition from other regions around the world.
You might think that well have maybe a little bit of growth in the beefs export volume for the year probably not expecting very much in pork but -- and then maybe you see chicken exports improve.
So one thing to note though I think we mentioned in the last call or two that we were taking a lot of our beef items like Short Plates and those kind of things and rolling those in to the trim stream; those are now going back out into the export markets.
Now theyre going back into those markets at much lower pricing than they were before but it is better than the trim stream.
And then one thing that -- I said one thing theres been about three things.
Sorry.
One last thing Id like investors to think about is we have not projected any impact for MCOOL.
[Ph] So depending on whether or not Congress fails to act or acts and there are retaliatory tariffs those would provide some cautionary note in our export sales.
But we dont have anything forecasted for that and we also dont have any AI impact built into our projection.
So thats the view.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Diane Geissler of CLSA.
Your line is open.
First of all congratulations on your quarter and just really your operations all year long.
I wanted to -- and thanks also for some of the details on your value-add portfolio and the breakdown on consumer retail versus foodservice.
I guess I just want to come back around on the chicken outlook and say that I think in the press release youve said it was 2% from the USDA but you actually expected it to be up a little bit more than that and that foodservice could possibly see demand lower than supply.
So when we think about these breakdowns that youve given us how much of that is sort of already booked in with a guaranteed margin? So youve priced out a contract with the national account you know what the margin on that will be in 2016.
Can you provide us some color on what you know youve already booked versus maybe what is a little bit more open to the market as we get later in fiscal 2016? Its difficult to answer with a lot of specificity.
I dont know how to say that word specificity.
You know that word right? But let me say this so as far as what we would have booked today that has pricing set and has perhaps the cost in commodity futures underneath it youre talking sub 20% of the portfolio but we have a lot of our portfolio that is line priced; we have a lot of the portfolio that has very short volume windows.
So if you ask me what is my expectation about how well we will do through pricing season and how well well be able to maintain at least 10% margins or better I feel very good about that.
A couple of reasons weve got the largest brand at present out there in the U.S.
in Chicken.
Our value-added portfolio now weve got capacity around us to where we can continue to grow that.
And by the way our buy versus grow strategy in a year like this is a competitive advantage because were able to buy very very cheap raw materials and then further process that into value-added items for predominantly foodservice but also some at retail.
And weve got best-in-class quality; weve got best-in-class service.
And I think that drives our customers to us to ask us to help grow their categories.
And weve got the innovation capabilities that theyre looking for to continue to grow their business.
So that sets up very well for us.
And Im very positive about our Chicken business for 2016.
Have you finished most of the fall contracting with the foodservice? No itll take us about another 60 days or so to get through it.
I can tell you that the early read is its going pretty good.
And just on the export -- to follow-up on that question I mean its been awhile since weve had an AI case -- a new AI case discovered on the back of the high-path that happened earlier this spring.
So based on your experience how long does it take for the trade partners to open the doors? I mean at what point will they look at it and say okay theres -- no new cases we dont expect any more cases and now were going to think about taking products from the U.S.
again? Historically its been around six months to nine months although I can tell you we havent had very many.
Were about nine months past March 5th now and we havent had very many regions open the doors yet.
There is a lot of trade negotiations going on.
TPP is up in the air youve got MCOOL [ph] up in the air.
Theres just a lot going on around trade.
I dont know how much thats impacting.
Whether or not these countries open up we feel very safe about our supply chain.
So I dont see any reason there for there to be any reason not to want to take great part of it from the U.S.
So Id really hesitate to try to guess on when these things will open up.
So what we did Diane is we just put the current pricing in our year for the whole year.
And if anything breaks lose then it will benefit us.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Brett Hundley of BB&amp;T Capital.
Your line is open.
Just two questions for me.
Donnie I can certainly appreciate youre lowering your normalized range on beef just given challenges in recent years.
But maybe to put this move into Wall Street jargon I wonder if youre downgrading the segment at the bottom here.
One of your competitors in the space fairly recently was more bullish than I would have expected on the beef market going forward.
And Im just wondering as you add up the pieces if you guys could potentially find yourselves above that new normalized range and back within your old range by 2017 or so? So first let me explain why we took the action we did.
We really did feel its important for our investor base to have a really solid understanding of what we feel the margin environment is going to be that we face out over the next few years.
Youve got relatively low cattle supply youve got too much -- well not to say too much probably not the right way to say it but youve got excess industry capacity.
And that limits our ability to drive margins above the 1.5% to 3% we think.
I would say this though is that are there likely to be quarters out in those future years where we would see margins in the previous.
Yes I think you should expect that.
But overall for annual guidance as we look forward for the next few years this is the environment we think well be operating in.
And then my last question is just on your Prepared Foods business.
Just to maybe help me with modeling that top line better going forward I was wondering if maybe you would separate out your legacy and Hillshire areas or maybe even talk to the different parts of your Prepared Foods business more about volume and price expectations going forward.
You have a very vast business there.
And when I walk to stores here in my area I see a fair amount of competitive behavior amongst all the participants.
And you talked about your wanting to push volume growth.
Youve mentioned the synergy capture that you guys are garnering which I think gives you a lot of fire power there.
But I just want to understand top line dynamics better on a go forward basis between different areas of your business there? So as you look at our Prepared Foods business and Im going to be painting with a fairly broad brush its relatively evenly split between retail and foodservice.
So if you think about our foodservice Prepared Foods business so lets look at that first.
Youve got predominantly a pizza toppings business and other ingredient meats combined with the portfolio of breaded products tortillas flat breads that kind of thing and the former if you will bakery and sweet goods business from Hillshire Brands.
So a lot of the meat in that portfolio is priced on a trailing basis to the markets.
So as the markets go down and we do expect cheaper pork raw materials typically our pricing in Prepared Foods would go down as well but we would hang on to the margin.
And it would recover in some period of time.
Weve tried to shorten that window from 90-plus days down to 45 to 60 days or so and that should help stabilize the margin regardless of which way the market is moving.
The bakery and sweet goods business has a very stable low double-digit margin.
And so again there is opportunities for us to grow a bit in that category.
Although we do think that the largest potential is to continue to grow the meat business inside our Prepared Foods on foodservice side.
Now lets switch over to retail.
We talked about the core nine on the script.
And what were seeing -- lets take it apart just a little bit.
Jimmy Dean breakfast sausage Hillshire Brands smoked sausage and our Hillshire Brands lunchmeat have been the three categories where we need to drive volume.
We have seen -- lets go from the bottom-up.
So Hillshire farm lunchmeat.
Obviously our shortage of raw material and turkey has hurt our volume in that business.
Now frankly weve been able to replace some SKUs with some additional ham SKUs; weve been able to replace some of those SKUs with chicken lunchmeat SKUs.
But overall the absence of turkey has hurt our volume.
Were now in a position where after the first of the year say late Jan something like that well be back to full production in our turkey operation after the AI problems and well have the raw material around as we need to reset our pricing in our turkey lunchmeat to line pricing and then grow our promotional volume from there.
So we feel great about our ability to get our price gaps right and grow that business.
In Jimmy Dean breakfast sausage the issue there is really around reestablishing price gaps to the competition to drive volume.
We have a lot of promotional activity going on during this holiday season and we feel very good about our ability to drive our volume by getting these price gaps right.
Frankly we had some of our retail partners who are a little bit slow in reflecting our pricing gaps at that level.
And so that has slowed our volume a bit but well get there.
And now on growth frankly were seeing unprecedented growth in competitive pricing.
We lowered our pricing gaps but probably need to do that again.
And fortunately weve got lower raw materials and weve got increased synergies that gives us a lot of power to fuel the growth in these categories.
So I feel very comfortable that Andy and the team have a great focus on how to get the volume back and regain the share that weve given up.
And I could not be more optimistic about our Prepared Foods business.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Farha Aslam of Stephens Inc.
Your line is open.
Donnie could you talk about the synergy targets that youve set out? Youve increased your long-term synergy target by $100 million.
Could you share with us what gave you the confidence and where youre finding that extra $100 million of cost savings? Sure Farha.
So operational improvements through fiscal 2015 were more than we thought and we see increased opportunity as we get into 2016 to -- in the operational improvement.
Were just getting started on some of the network stuff.
Thats probably going to be more of a 2017 answer for us.
The purchasing synergies as we work with a lot of our great supply partners weve worked on several packaging innovations and just rethinking a lot of the categories.
And together with our supply partners were finding ways to lower our cost in a lot of these purchasing categories.
And that has really been the increase that we see the most of in 2016.
So its really a good story and it provides a lot of fuel to fuel our growth.
And just to be clear are you including sort of internally sourcing your meat for Hillshire in this 2017 number now? No not yet Farha.
Were still under contract with other suppliers with our Hillshire -- former Hillshire Brands raw materials.
And until those contracts run out and that could be anywhere from 12 months to 24 months well still be buying raw materials for that business from other folks.
And just as a follow-up if we can think about Tysons longer term kind of ROIC targets and how beef fits in with those targets with your new reduced beef margins? That would be helpful.
Ill take a break and get a cup of coffee.
Dennis? Farha this is Dennis.
Our longer term goal would be to be at 20% ROIC overall.
And just to give you a little bit of a perspective around Beef even at a 2% return on sales we have about a 15% ROIC.
So 2.5% gets you pretty close to 20%.
And we see no reason why we cant work our way toward it.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kenneth Zaslow of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Just a couple of follow-up questions.
You recently closed one of your plants your beef plant.
How much operating profit or cost reduction will you get from that and how much of that adds to your margin structure? I know that you took down the beef packer margin outlook but I would think that would be at least somewhere between 30 basis points and 40 basis points incremental.
How do you think about that? Ken youd be higher there.
It obviously depends on the fundamentals in that region about the cattle that come to market and that kind of thing but 30 is too high.
As I think through it its hard for me just to put a number on it but youre high at 30.
I promise.
And then the $139 million associated with the bird flu and turkey how much of that get recuperated next year and the year after and how do you think about that? So quite a bit of thats caught up in the export markets not being able to ship.
Obviously -- I dont know the breakout of the 139 how much is the Chicken export number versus how much is the actual turkey problems.
But the turkey part of that should rebound as we get the plant full and we have the raw materials and we regain those sales.
And that you should see that start flowing in.
Weve got it modeled in Q2 so you should see that flowing in then.
And just talking about pork a little bit the pork packer outlook it seems like were flushed with plenty of hogs out there.
The reason Im assuming that youre keeping it within the guidance range is because the export markets are still in flux; is that a fair way of thinking about it because the domestic side of the pork outlook seems exceedingly strong; how do I look into that? Youve hit the nail on the head Ken.
We feel very good about pork.
Theres going to be good hog availability which by the way provides good cheap raw materials for our Prepared Foods business.
But this is just a cautionary note on exports and the high dollar and competition from other regions in the world for some primary markets.
So thats the cautionary note there.
If some of that changes then obviously theres upside in our Pork segment.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Michael Piken of Cleveland Research.
Hi.
This is Mike Henry actually in for Mike Piken.
Thanks for taking my question.
You highlighted some of the near-term contracts that I guess are more under negotiation with Chicken.
I was wondering if you could comment on what percent of the contracting has already been completed for the year that might be a little bit of a tailwind as you go in over the next several quarters.
It is hard to say Mike.
My guess is of the volume that is RFPed maybe 10% 15% at most something like that.
Youve got to remember theres a lot of different pricing models that we have some where we have guaranteed volume and we really look at the price every 30 60 or 90 days.
Weve got a good bit of our Chicken business thats just right priced.
But of that volume that will go through RFPs Im guessing youre in those low-double digits.
There is a lot yet to come there yes.
And then just one follow-up if I may going back to the question on the market being oversupplied potentially for Chicken.
Given where prices are today do you think that were seeing this? And then when were in this oversupply situation how is Tyson kind of adjusting and reacting? So our reaction is to ramp up our buy versus grow strategy.
We are buying a lot of raw material these days.
Were buying breast meat sub $0.90 delivered to our plants.
So weve got the opportunity to take advantage of this outside raw material in an oversupply situation to supply our value-added businesses.
And as we said in the script about 90% or so of our volume is really consumer pull and only about 10% is pushed out.
We dont sell very much CDP [ph] breast meat.
Were working hard every day to value up our leg quarters and not have any leg quarters to sell.
So its a time like this when our buy versus grow strategy really helps us maintain our stable margins.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions.
So hey Donnie when you say only 10% of your volume is pushed out is that kind of a good proxy for saying only 10% exposed to like commodity pricing on a regular basis? So like if I just made like a blanket statement that commodity prices are going to be down 25% year-over-year could I apply that to that 10% to figure out commodity exposure for chicken? And then I had a quick follow-up.
Sure.
So I think Id rather you think about the 15% of our sales that our CDP [ph] breast meat leg quarters and our rendering products.
Those are the ones that have the most commodity exposure.
Now there is also a minority portion for example of our fresh tray pack business that gets priced off the Georgia Dock.
So there are some market influences in those businesses.
But in terms of just commodity exposure probably think of the 15% of our portfolio and not the larger percent.
And then the follow-up I guess its kind of two-fold.
But you said about 20% of the volume youve got good visibility on in terms of locking in margins; I think thats what you said.
Is that typical for this time of year are you ahead or is that about average; how does that compare to last year? And then also how do I think about the $100 million improvement in your grain costs; how much of that are you able to drop to the bottom-line? So two great questions yes.
This year is about like every other.
So were going through about the same amount of RFP that we went through last year.
And again let me reiterate that its going pretty good so far.
Still got some room to go but going pretty good.
Lets see the second part of your question remind me of that again.
$100 million grain? Yes the grain.
One thing that we always do is look at opportunities to lock in margins when we do get pricing contracts established.
So well look at that.
But its hard to say this early about how much of the impact of that $100 million will drop to the bottom-line until we get through this big RFP season because if we can get the chance to lock in our margins underneath that we will.
But thats probably not.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from again Ken Goldman of JPMC.
Your line is open.
Forgive me if this was asked I didnt hear it.
But industry-wide we are seeing some extraordinarily strong beef and pork processing margins in the last few weeks if not more.
And I recognize that just as we saw this past quarter with beef sometimes its hard to translate what were seeing industry-wide to what a specific companys margins will be.
But as we model out the year is it reasonable for us at least in these two segments to sort of give a little bit more juice to the first half of the year or at least the first quarter just given some of the timing and what were actually seeing in the market today because some of the margins were seeing are just extraordinarily high and unusual for this time of year? Probably able to do that in pork Id be cautious about doing that in beef.
We had pretty good October but here in the middle part of November beef cut-out has dropped quite dramatically.
I dont know what Fridays close was but its probably going to be around 2.05 or something like that.
And kind of depending on where cattle are north versus south sometimes it takes a little while to get that change reflected in the cost of the cattle.
Beef my guess is that youre probably backend loaded.
Cattle we saw the cattle and feed numbers Friday our estimates would be that the increase in feds cattle coming to market this year would be in Q3 or Q4.
So youre probably a little frontend loaded maybe and pork a little back and loaded and beef is kind of where Im thinking about it.
And then a follow-up if I can on Beef its obviously been an unexpected at least from my perspective drag on earnings in the last two quarters.
I think you guys have hinted and this is my interpretation you havent said it but if you wanted to divest it if you decided this business is an albatross on our valuation; lets just punt it.
Do you think there would be a robust even diverse group of suitors for the business or would it be really challenging to find someone interested in and maybe even able to take a look at it from an antitrust perspective? Im just curious what the market might be for something like that out there if you can even answer that.
No I cant answer that.
No.
Alright.
Well I gave it a shot.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Tim Ramey of Pivotal Research Group.
Your line is open.
Donnie you mentioned getting started on some of the network stuff to be a fiscal 17 event.
Can you flesh out a little bit what that means for us? Yes.
That wasnt such a technical term; was it Tim? So were in the process now you saw our announcement last Friday of optimizing the production footprint.
Well be moving lines of products within that footprint to optimize the logistics around the raw material and optimize the cost of the production.
From that point then the next move is to really look out into the distribution network and make sure that we have the right nodes of distribution both from a hub-and-spoke and from a forward positioning basis to optimize our transportation cost and our service offering.
So once we get the production footprint established largely it wont be perfect.
But then we will begin working on the distribution network.
There is a couple things that were starting to focus on now around rationalizing some of the SKUs.
Weve got some end-to-end opportunities between primarily our pork business but to some small extent our beef business and our Prepared Foods business to continue to work to optimize cost inside that network.
So all of that will be -- well begin working on that in 2016 but largely the effect of those changes will happen in 2017.
Now let me hasten on to say too that weve got work inside our Chicken business as well.
Weve just completed the conversion in South Georgia to the tray pack.
Weve got a lot of FP capacity around us now.
And so were able to go out and bid on business that we werent able to bid before.
Our antibiotic-free business continues to grow.
So as those grow that will help us optimize the production and the distribution network as well.
Hope that clears it up a little bit.
Yes.
Just to follow on on Beef with the timing difference relative to the price decline in the futures market it doesnt sound like youre saying thats recouped in the 1Q.
Is it more of a -- we should think about that as coming back into the numbers throughout the fiscal 2016 year or how should we think about that? Yes I would spread that cost throughout the fiscal 2016 year.
So we sell boxed beef out front and buy cattle futures against it to lock in the margin and so some of those contracts are fairly well out through the year.
And so just kind of spread that cost on through the rest of the fiscal year.
And just we used to talk a lot about the pie season back in the day.
Anything to say about the sweet goods sales? Its going well.
We did have a problem which Tim you know my background; itd be hard for me to think about a sweet potato problem.
But the flooding that we had in South Carolina actually disrupted our supply chain a little bit on the sweet potatoes.
We had a great team around that work through it very well and I think did as good as we could to get as much of our volume into the marketplace as we can really just some heroic efforts on the part of that business in our supply chain.
So yes its going pretty well.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from David Palmer of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
As you talk about buy versus grow you mentioned the purchase mix can shift up to 10% or so over time.
Any sense of where that stands now; and has that been evolving already as you head into 2016? Were a little bit shy of the 10% now.
Its pretty easy for us frankly to buy about 100 loads a week.
Most of that will be breast meat; some will be breast meat portions.
And then if wings were to soften up and we had good promotional volume for next springs wings season well always be out there buying wings and a few tenders when theyre available.
Typically the size of tenders that we need arent very readily available.
So mostly I think breast meat but yes we do spread that around to the other raw materials when we can use them.
Has your team guessed where the chicken industry profit margins would be around as we exit 2015; is the segment up low-single digits in margin or so? David honestly we spend all of our time just focusing on our customers and our margins.
We dont spend a whole lot of time trying to figure out what the industry is doing.
And then just one small question about the dollar it feels like the strong dollar.
And we often talk about the AI trade restrictions.
But strong dollar is perhaps holding back your earnings in indirect ways like limiting chicken export and encouraging beef imports from Australia.
Could you comment on that? And if the dollar does stabilize is that at least the removal of a negative? Very much so removal of the negative and I would say that today the dollar impact is probably having more of an impact on pork and beef exports than it would chicken.
I feel comfortable that if the export restrictions based on AI were relieved then we could increase our exports in chicken pretty readily.
So dollar wouldnt necessarily impact the chicken as much but on pork and beef yes.
Thank you.
And that ends our Q&amp;A session.
Ill hand it back over to Donnie for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and certainly for your interest in Tyson Foods.
We wish you all a very happy Thanksgiving.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And that concludes todays conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.