Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
Today's meeting will be recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in my mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings in today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy  Thank you Bruce and good morning everyone.
By now I hope you’ve had the opportunity to review our first quarter earnings release.
Our strong performance in the first quarter reflected higher marine wholesale shipments compared to the prior year.
Our marine engine segment continued to perform well across its entire product offering including its parts and accessory business.
Life fitness experienced strong revenue and earnings growth and as we experienced throughout 2010 our consolidated results continue to reflect strong levels of operating leverage.
Our first quarter results have put us in an excellent position to achieve our previously-stated target of returning to profitability in 2011.
I will discuss in my outlook comment some of the factors that need to be considered when evaluating our potential results in the remaining three quarters.
Our results in the quarter reflect revenue growth of 17% and net earnings of $0.30 per share including $0.05 per share of restructuring charges.
This compares to a loss of $0.15 per share in the prior year which included $0.08 per share of restructuring charges and $0.02 per share of benefit from special tax items.
Operating earnings excluding the restructuring exit any impairment charges were 72 million in the quarter and the improvement of 55 million as compared to the prior year period.
Our operating margin excluding restructuring charges was 7.3% representing our highest consolidated operating margin for a first quarter since 2001.
In addition to higher sales levels our earnings benefited from increased fixed cost absorption improved operating efficiencies and companywide cost reductions.
SG&amp;A remained relatively consistent and decreased as a percentage of net sales during the quarter.
The decrease was primarily a result of our successful cost reduction efforts and a gain on a sales of a distribution facility.
Our cash and marketable securities totaled just under 550 million and net debt at quarter end was 263 million.
Peter will comment in his remarks on the key factors that resulted in our cash issues during the quarter as well as provide you with a perspective of our 2011 cash flow targets supporting our objective of generating positive free cash flow.
Let’s  review the preliminary first quarter U.S.
Marine industry data.
Fiberglass sterndrive and inboard boat unit demand fell by 25%.
This compares to declines of 34% in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 21% in the first quarter of 2010.
Outboard fiberglass boat retail unit demand fell 2% in the first quarter.
This compares to declines of 13% in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 18% in the first quarter of 2010.
Aluminum product demand increased by 9% in the quarter.
This compares to an increase of 2% in the fourth quarter of 2010 and a 7% decline in the first quarter of 2010.
After taking into account the different changes unit volumes preliminary total industry unit demand declined approximately 1% in the first quarter.
This compares to a 9% decline in the fourth quarter and a 14% decline in the first quarter of 2010.
2010 industry data provided by the states and Coast Guard with Statistical Survey Incorporated continued to be updated subsequent to our January earnings call.
The latest submission of data not only reflects updates to the fourth quarter and full year but also for some of 2010’s earlier quarters.
Total industry demand in 2010 declined by 10% versus the prior estimate of the decline of 14% resulting in United States retail prior boat units in 2010 of approximately 139 000.
The end result was therefore consistent with our 2010 plan for a 10% decline and overall industry boat unit sales.
On the international front our engine segment sales outside of the U.S.
increased by 6% for the quarter compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Our boat sales outside the U.S.
increased by 18% during the same period.
Looking at our growth and reign markets outside the U.S.
we see diverse results across our global markets.
Demand in key emerging markets vary.
The Q1 volumes in China Brazil and Russia all up substantially while in Africa and the Middle East volume was lower compared to a year ago primarily due to the political instability in these two regions.
Across the European markets demand in France Italy and Germany continue to improve.
On the other hand demand across Southern Europe while stable remains relatively weak especially and specifically in those countries most affected by the solvent debt crisis.
The usually steady markets of Australia and New Zealand were effected by natural disasters with severe flooding in the northern states of Australia and a devastating earthquake in New Zealand South Island City of Christ Church.
Let’s dealer pipeline.
Compared to last year our first quarter ending pipeline reflected about 1 400 more units or a 8% increase.
The amount of Ace product  in our pipeline continues to reflect normal levels.
Our production in wholesale shipments increased in the first quarter compared to the prior year.
The higher quarterly wholesale shipments and increased dealer inventory levels reflect our plan for a stable retail market in 2011 compared to declining market in 2010 as well as our plan to insure that our dealers have the appropriate levels in inventory to meet lease season demand.
Additionally we did not incur the same magnitude of ramp-up production issues in 2011 as we  experienced in the early part of 2010.
As we noted in January this year our 2011 pipeline management plan will reflect quarterly movements in inventory levels resulting from seasonal demand factors and our strategy for a pull model from our dealers versus  the push model that was used in prior years.
As a result our first quarter wholesale unit shipments were greater than units sold at retail as dealers prepared for the upcoming selling season.
This trend will reverse itself in the second and third quarters with an ultimate goal of maintaining inventories at appropriate stocking levels.
The effect of the increased wholesale unit shipment levels slightly lower discounts partially offset by the effect of a higher mix of smaller boat sales led to a boat segment sales increase of 16% in the first quarter.
Higher sales increased fixed cost absorption and fixed cost reductions led to lower operating losses and resulted in an operating margin of minus 1.3%.
This is the segment’s best quarterly performance since the second quarter of 2007 and compares favorably to the minus 11% margin in the first quarter of 2010.
I’ll also note that brands comprising almost 90% of our boat segment group revenues had positive operating earnings in the quarter; a great reflection of the progress we are making in our boat segment category.
In our Engine business global production in the quarter and was higher than year-ago levels.
In the first quarter all of Mercury's main operations experienced increases in sales leading to the segment’s overall growth of 17%.
Mercury’s strong topline growth which was weighted more heavily toward the sterndrive engine business the combined effect from cost reductions increased fixed cost absorption and improved operating efficiencies as well as the gain on the sale of a distribution facility helped guide improvements in first quarter operating earnings.
I’ll also now take a few minutes to give you a brief report on our engine production in Japan as well as give you an update on Mercury’s global supply status pertaining to various parts and sources from the area that was affected by the devastating earthquake and tsunami.
Mercury produces it’s engines and parts primarily in North America and Asia and these facilities are operating with no current disruptions.
The manufacturing of Mercruiser sterndrive packages has been vertically unaffected by supplier issues.
In addition our P&amp;A operations have not received any indication from suppliers that near-term shortages are anticipated.
Mercury’s small outboards are produced in Japan through a joint venture with the Hotson Corporation.
This facility was not damaged by the earthquake but it did shut down production for a week in early April in order to effectively manage its parts on hand.
It continues to work closely with its suppliers to monitor and balance the availability of parts and to minimize disruptions in production but a backlog of orders does exist as the joint venture works to return to full production levels.
As for our global supply requirements we continue to monitor the situation closely because many of our direct suppliers depend on materials and goods from other companies some of which have been effected to varying degrees by the situation in Japan.
However we are not at this time experiencing any shortages of a material nature.
In summary we believe Mercury is well positioned to continue to meet market demand for its outboard product above 30 horse power and sterndrive engines.
Availability of outboard engines below 30 horse power will improve as our joint venture moves forward with its production recovery plans.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to the people in Japan as they continue their recovery process from these devastating events.
Now let’s turn our attention to our two recreational segments.
LifeFitness continues to perform exceptionally well.
Sales were up 31% as compared to last year first quarter.
Commercial revenues benefited from a large order received in one of its major customer categories.
Segment operating earnings grew by about 14 million.
In addition to the benefits of increased unit volumes a more favorable product mix and increased fixed cost absorption contributed to the higher level of profits.
Sales in Bowling &amp; Billiard to climb 5% in the quarter.
Same-store retail bowling revenues were flat while bowling products experienced a decline in sales.
The segment’s operating earnings were slightly below last year’s levels due to lower sales.
I’ll now turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financials and then I’ll come back to give you an update  on our perspective for 2011.
Thank you Dusty.
I’d like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our first quarter P&amp;L and I’ll also comment on certain forward-looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring exit and impairment charges which were 5.3 million or $0.05 per-share in the quarter.
The charges in the quarter primarily reflect actions at our marine operations including those relating to plant consolidation actions at Mercury and the consolidation of production of our Cabo Yacht brand into our existing Hatteras manufacturing facility.
Our current estimate for full-year restructuring charges continues to be $15 million.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was  27 million in the quarter an increase of 3 million versus  the same period in 2010.
During the first quarter of 2011 we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of 4.3 million on the retirement of 18.7 million of 11.75% 2013 notes which will retire at a premium versus  their book value.
This compares to a debt extinguishment loss of 300 000 in the first quarter of 2010.
In March we entered into a new 300 million revolving credit facility.
The new revolver provides us with improved terms and conditions that enhance our overall financial flexibility and will lower our interest cost in subsequent quarters.
In the first quarter however our interest expense did include approximately $1 million of additional charges that resulted from the write-off of capitalized expenses associated with our previous revolver.
In addition to the 19 million of debt retirements completed in the first quarter we have thus far purchased 20 million of debt in the second quarter.
Second quarter activities reflect purchases of our 11.75% 2013 notes and 7 18% 2027 adventures.
As a result of the additional second quarter debt retirements combined with lower cost associated with our new revolver we expecedt net interest expense absence any additional retirement of debt but the remainder of the year will be approximately $20 million per quarter.
During the quarter foreign currency had a modestly negative effect on operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This includes the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations have on our year-over-year earnings comparisons.
Changes in foreign currency had a modestly favorable effect on our sales in the quarter.
In the first quarter we recorded a tax revision of 13.2 million which primarily relates to earnings from our foreign operations.
The first quarter of 2010 we recorded provisions of about 300 000.
Higher pre-tax income was the primary factor  for the increase in tax expense.
Now as a quick reminder due to the company’s three years of cumulative book losses in various tax and jurisdictions GAAP requires that the realization of belated deferred tax assets be considered uncertain.
Consequently we continue to adjust our deferred tax evaluation allowance resulting in effectively no reported federal tax benefit or provision associated with our losses or income from U.S.
operations.
Our 2011 tax expense will therefore continue to be comprised primarily of foreign and state income taxes.
We anticipate recording favorable tax adjustments by year-end for matters that have not yet been concluded in several foreign jurisdictions which will more than offset the impact of a modest increase in earnings from our foreign operations this year.
As a result we now expect our overall 2011 tax provision to be less than our 2010 tax expense.
As for interim tax provisioning our quarterly provision or benefit will be correlated to our pre-tax earnings or losses during the quarter and reflects an effective tax rate which is currently 32.4%.
Therefore in periods of a pre-tax loss we would expect to record a tax benefit.
Now let’s turn to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash used for operations in the first quarter was $83 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of 28 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2011 is approximately 105 million.
Pension expense resulting from our defined benefit pension plans totaled approximately 8 million in the first quarter compared to 10 million in the prior year.
In the quarter the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans for approximately $1 million.
These items are netted on the cash flow statement.
We expect our full-year pension expense to be approximately 32 million which is a decrease of 7 million from 2010.
This reflects a benefit of higher asset levels land contributions and lower interest cost associated with plan liabilities.
For the full year the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of approximately 60 to $65 million.
Changes in our primary working capital accounts were in use of cash in the quarter and totaled approximately 170 million.
This change is largely a result of seasonal requirements of our marine customers.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by 148 million inventories increased by 23 million accrued expenses decreased by 49 million and partially offsetting these uses of cash was an increase in accounts payable of 51 million.
For 2011 our working capital performance will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions.
We currently believe that the range should be between flat to a modest usage of cash.
Given the seasonality our marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital in the subsequent three quarters to have a positive effect on cash flow.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $13 million.
Our 2011 plan continues to reflect approximately 80 million in expenditures.
This increase versus 2010 reflects expenditures to develop new products in anticipation of improving market conditions and to fund our marine manufacturing plant consolidation activities.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures in the quarter was 10 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment including a marine engine distribution facility in Australia.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010 the company expanded its cash investment program to include marketable securities with maturity beyond 90 days.
During the first quarter of 2010 the cash flow statement includes about 20 million in net investments made in short and long-term marketable securities.
The new program is designed to increase earnings on a portion of the company’s cash reserves.
Investments have maturities of two years or less and include high-grade corporate commercial paper and government securities.
The purchases and sales of these marketable securities do not affect our calculation of free cash flow.
So in summary during the first quarter we used approximately 83 million in free cash flow.
This along with a 23 million spent to retire debt were primarily responsible for 108 million reduction in cash and marketable securities in the quarter ending with a balance of 549 million.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is net available borrowing capacity from our new revolver of approximately 207 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with a total available liquidity of 756 million about 70 million higher than at the end of the first quarter of 2010.
And finally when comparing year-over-year free cash flow amounts and cash balances for the first quarter I would remind you of the 109 million Federal tax refund that we received in the first quarter of 2010.
I’ll now turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding comments.
Thanks Peter.
I’ll conclude the call today by reviewing our 2011 outlook.
As in 2010 we will continue in 2011 to remain disciplined to generate positive free cash flow perform better than the market and demonstrate outstanding operating leverage.
Our 2011 operating leverage will be strong but we do expect quarter-to-quarter variations throughout the year as a result of timing of fixed-cost savings and potential quarterly differences and variable compensation expense.
While we are only three-plus months into the year and are just beginning to retail marine season our view is that 2011 is unfolding as we discussed with you in January.
As we stated then and reiterate today we believe that significant decline in the industry marine retail demand bottomed in 2010.
But at this early point in the season we’re unable to determine if 2011 marine retail demand will match our plan for a flat market.
It remains our view that smaller boats as it did in 2010 will continue to outperform larger ones.
The first quarter demand statistics that are previously sited support this assumption as larger fiberglass boats continue to show signs of  softness.
We’re planning for a solid consolidated revenue growth for the company with the level of 2011 revenue and earnings growth primarily governed by a marine retail demand as well as by the success of the company’s efforts to improve market share in all of its business segments.
<br>Our 2011 net income should also benefit from our previously announced marine plant consolidations as well as from the items Peter’s already discussed with you; lower restructuring cost along with the reduced net interest pension and depreciation expenses.
After taking all these factors into consideration we expect our 2011 earnings per-share to be in a range of $0.30 per share to $0.50 per share.
As a result of seasonal factors that affect our marine business we currently expect to report a profitable second quarter followed by a net loss in the second half of the year.
In order to truly understand our guidance and evaluate our potential future results you should understand that marine retail market materially – that should the marine retail market materially decline in 2011 the remainder of the year would be at risk to lower levels of marine wholesale unit shipments in order to keep our dealers inventories at the desired healthy levels.
As we look at 2011 retail demand we are continuing to watch the development of higher crude oil prices and the headwind they’re creating in the economy.
At the time of our next earnings release we should have a better view of marine retail demand for 2011 and we will provide an updated outlook at that time.
Thanks for your attention and lets now take your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Ed.
I wanted to maybe start with the guidance change to the full year.
I’m just wondering how much of that increase comes from a chance in your kind of operating expectations versus other factors like the lower tax?  Actually the main is we’ve become a bit more comfortable about the flat market and our ability to gain share Ed.
Those are the real two drivers of the change.
But I do have to say our businesses are operating very well and we continue to remain confident about our ability to operate.
And I guess on that note you know you’re feeling more confident with the flat market potential.
I guess when I kind of read the press release and listened to your prepared remarks I kind of got the sense that you were talking a little bit more about the risk of a down market this year than the possibility of an up market.
And I’m just wondering if that was an accurate read on my part just to get a little bit better sense on how your thought processes evolved or changed during the past 90 days or so? Sure.
I would say that the possibility of a down market exceeds that of an up market.
And I think the longer we go with higher crude oil prices food costs all of the things that in the real world effect consumers the longer those continue we’re more convinced that there is more downside risk versus upside.
It is just too early for us to call sitting here today whether our plan that the market would be flat is right or wrong but we are going to get a real good feel here in the coming weeks.
Okay one more and then I will jump back in the queue.
I guess you were vindicated a little bit on your call on the market for 2010 being revised to down 10 % so should we be thinking about your flat outlook for this year as being relative to that revised 139 000 unit market or should we think about it more in an absolute sense relative to what you thought the market decline last year? You ought to compare to the 139 Ed.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Jane Hardman from James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Couple of questions for you guys.
Obviously there is a lot of focus on the overall industry numbers all in I think you guys said down 1 % if you aggregate everything as you think about your particular business obviously the negative is that you are more highly exposed to the fiberglass boats and so your mix of end markets from an industry perspective would look a little bit worse but then from a market share perspective I guess I was hoping you could sort of compare what you are seeing with what the industry is looking like at least through the first quarter and then beyond that just generally what the momentum looked like within the quarter if you could help with that as well.
Sure.
First we are clearly moving smaller product.
Just to give everybody a couple of take points because this keeps coming up – and we can take any time period but let’s say from 2008 our aluminum sales in the first quarter have gone from 42 % of wholesale sales this is in units to 58 % in 2011 and we have seen a small increase for instance in a brand like Searay over the same time period in a number of sport boats as a percentage of total unit sales.
We have felt that coming and I think we have been talking about it for a whole bunch of quarters now and I think the first thing to understand is all of the work we have done in our aluminum business.
Our aluminum business was profitable in Q1 in fact it was nicely profitable.
That is through a lot of work to get the brands right a lot of work around products and significant changes in the manufacturing footprint in that business.
So while in years past this would have been a lot more of a problem it would have been a significant problem for our boat business but you can see the improvement in earnings on a quarter to quarter basis in our boat business even with this mix down that is occurring.
As far as momentum the momentum is all over the map.
You can go to different cities in the same state different states and one gets a different answer but here is what I would say; momentum has not been increasing as we go through the month of April and we are going to get a better look in a couple of weeks as to whether it leveled or began to decline.
I do want to keep highlighting that we are watching crude oil process and the impact on the economy and I think we all have to understand that they’re impacting the economy negatively and how it will translate in the boat sales is a bit yet to be seen.
I’ve seen nothing that would tell us that momentum is improving.
We are hoping for a flat momentum and we will see whether the momentum is declining in April.
The market share piece did you feel like you were up/down/flat in the first quarter? It depends on the segment.
Overall our view is that we have gained share.
There is probably only one relatively small segment where we did not think we gained share and it would be insignificant in terms of earnings perspective.
All of our other businesses we are pretty relaxed that we are gaining share.
Okay great.
Just a couple of questions here.
Gross margins looked really strong within the quarter.
Obviously a lot of that was some leverage from the strong sales levels but could you tell us about what some of the other puts and takes were?  Was it a better more profitable mix of product that you were selling was it currency impact was it better cost save?  What drove the gross margin in the quarter?  It’s Peter James.
It was basically a function as you say a volume plus the significant cost reduction activities that we have put in place plus the depreciation reduction that we have talked about in the past.
Those were the really big factors.
We have slightly less discounts that we also had.
That’s true as well.
Great.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Rommel Dionisio from Wedbush Securities.
Please proceed.
Inc</strong>.
Yes good morning thank you.
My question is actually on the fitness business.
It is my understanding that your fastest growing customers have been the value priced fitness chains so I would have that product mix might be negative but you said it was positive.
Could you just walk through some of the drivers as to why?  That was a pleasant surprise.
Why was favorable mix shift there? We actually experienced sales growth across all of our segments in fitness and it was greater with larger clubs and bigger accounts but in our smaller accounts in the US and in the stronger economy areas of overseas like Asia and Germany and France we experienced strong growth so there really has not been a large variation in the growth we have seen.
We have seen it across virtually all of our segments in fitness.
If I could add one more thing also.
I think the assumption was built in to your question as a value club is a place where we make less margin and I don’t think that is an assumption you ought to use.
We have pretty consistent margins across all of our product lines.
That’s true because the value clubs buy commercial grade equipment.
Inc</strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Just a couple here gentlemen on your overall market expectations in Marine and then your share gains.
First of all any color on the first quarter as to whether there was some inkling that weather impacts in different regions? Secondly any feedback yet on April given that the mid-west in particular and down in the south especially over the last couple of weeks has had a significant amount of rain whether that is positively or negatively impacting anything at retail? Then just a couple of follow-ups after that.
One of the things we laughingly talk about here is we hate attribute any impact to the weather because there is weather every day all around the world but with a bit less tongue and cheek.
I think globally first we have seen a weather impact.
Weather was pretty tough in the first quarter in significant parts of Europe that are good boating areas and especially so in Scandinavia so that part of the market coming back has been very slow.
Here in the US while we don’t try to quantify Tim there was absolutely no question that weather has had an impact in some regions.
Probably not the southeast but at least up until this front froze and began to hammer Missouri Arkansas Tennessee Kentucky places like that.
So there probably has been some impact on weather but honestly we do not measure it and we try to look past it because there is not a lot we can do about it.
Okay.
Then what are you seeing or expectations-you’re saying at this point in time you are kind of looking at a flat markets for the new side of the units what about total given that a lot of the products have been exhausted?  How would you look at the total new and used power boat market on a year over year basis here in ’11? First I want to be really careful.
We are not predicting what the market will do.
We are just telling you how we are planning then we have to be nimble and able to react to the market Tim.
Our plan right now is flat and based upon what we have seen to date although it is early it looks like our plan was pretty well right and we will keep executing it but we will change if we have to.
As to the total market my judgment is it will be flat also because there no longer can be a big influx of used boats.
I think we really saw the used boat market stabilize in 2010 and therefore the real movement will be driven by the new boat category and again if our plan is flat the math says then the total market ought to be flat.
Okay.
Then lastly gentlemen operating leverage.
I think you referenced before that on incremental revenue all in you are looking at about a 30 % slow down rate.
I think you referenced that that was beyond this year but for this year it could be a little bit higher.
Could you just give us a little bit of an update there on your assumption? It’s Peter Tim.
You are correct that we said that over time we expect about a 30 % variable contribution margin and that would be enhanced this year by things like that depreciation and amortization improvement in cost and it would be improved this year by the effects of the continuing cost reduction efforts particularly at Mercury.
Those would be the big factors that would drive the 30 % to something somewhat more than that.
For this year correct Peter? Yes.
Next year and the subsequent years it is a question of what other fixed cost variations can be driven in to the years? Okay.
Then round that 30 % looking forward would still be reasonable? Yes.
In this business with our consolation businesses which incidentally have varying variable contribution margins it is not as if all of our portfolios have the same percentage and that is why this margin will differ over various quarters because we have the different mix of businesses due to seasonality over the various quarters.
As we look out over this years we look out over next year as 30 % seems very reasonable.
I’m not talking about a five or ten year period we are talking about a one or two year period.
Right.
Thank you gentlemen.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorak of Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
A couple of quick questions.
Did you give the week’s inventory number for the dealers? I don’t think I gave it in weeks.
I gave it in the number of units that it had increased but we can sure come up with that.
We are at 37.5 weeks.
Okay and I must have missed the unit number too.
What was the unit number increase? 1400 more units-an 8 % increase.
Okay and to clarify you gave the aluminum as a percent of mix going from 42-58 was that in 1Q ’10 to 1Q ’11 is that what the time frame was? No that was 1Q ’08 to 1Q ‘ 11.
1Q ’08 okay.
I think the mix is if I remember in revenues we have from about 80 % fiberglass in to ’09 frame to 75 in ’10 and I’m assuming that goes over again in ’11.
Do I have those numbers right? Yeah you are right.
I think you gave last time I think you gave 65 fiberglass turn drive 15 fiberglass outboard and 25 aluminum?  How would I update that? I don’t have that in front of me.
I think I gave you those.
I think that’s a fair assessment still.
Still fair for ’11?  Okay.
I think the other questions were answered.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Joe.
Your next question is a follow-up question from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Yeah I guess this goes back to your market share expectations.
To what degree do you feel that competitors are more supply constrained than yourselves?  Obviously it all depends on the trajectory of the market but given that you guys remain fairly on a relative basis liquid relative to most of the rest of the manufacturers in the industry and were able to pay people and then of course some of the disruptions that come from the unfortunate events in Japan how does that all factor in to your market share opportunities? Then a totally separate question Peter any details on the gain on sale from that facility? I will answer your last question first.
You can actually see the dimension of that gain in the cash flow state now because it is listed as a non-cash gain in the first third of the cash flow statement 7.4 million.
Okay I apologize.
Thanks.
No that’s fine.
It’s hard to take out.
Tim I don’t think any of our boat competitors are supply constrained.
It remains to be seen from an engine competitor perspective because we primarily compete against three Japanese outboard engine manufacturers and they are clearly in a bit of a different situation than we are except for under 30 horse power engines which are produced in joint-venture in Japan.
We are going to have to watch that one play out but clearly they have been slightly supply constrained up to this point but we have no idea what their inventories look like around the world and their ability to supply their boat [inaudible] and dealer customers.
I don’t think that really is going to be an issue that we ought to worry about longer term.
Frankly I think our ability to gain share is probably driven more in 2011 by our dealer network than anything.
We have often cited that the overall dealer network was down as a result of the issues and marine industry and the economy in the range of 30 % in our dealer network in terms of store fronts is fundamentally flat and I think there is the opportunity for us to get share gain and that is what we feel like we are seeing here in the first quarter.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Barco from B.
Riley and Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning I just have a couple of follow-ons to the share gaining comments and I guess also to mix.
The market share gain expectations that you said are kind of built in to your guidance are you speaking about expected gains in both the boat group and Mercury? Yes.
Correct me if I’m wrong and this is not what you are observing but it seems like we are seeing more meaningful disproportionate strength in the pontoon market relative to fiberglass.
I’m wondering if you could break out your aluminum sales.
What percentage of those sales are pontoon? Jimmy that is not something I’m going to do but it is strictly for competitive purposes.
Okay would you say that pontoons are a segment in the market that you feel like you might be under exposed to?  I know you have some pontoon lines but have you or would you consider adding to that portfolio especially since most pontoons are sold without boards where Mercury doesn’t enjoy the kind of share that it has in [inaudible]? I don’t think we will be adding to our product line but we will continue to invest in existing brands that we have because you are right it is a nicely growing segment.
Okay.
Then my last question could you talk about opportunities or your desire to selectively grow your dealer base as the market recovers? I don’t know that we have any particular growth plans with the dealer base and anything we will be doing will be fundamentally to replace dealers that may have issues and the like.
The reason is we want to insure that our dealers for various brands are competing against dealers who carry competing brands and not against the dealer who is carrying one of our brands.
So we work fairly hard to make sure that there is appropriate separation between all of our dealers and I think to begin to add to the dealer network overall in the United States is probably not something we will be doing.
Now we are looking to grow and strengthen the dealer base outside the United States and we have a fairly active process underway to continue that.
Okay thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question is a follow up question from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
I am just trying to get a better sense of how mix is going to look within the boat segment over the balance of the year.
The reason I ask is I seem to remember in this quarter last year you had shipments in units of about 35 % but the dollar growth was quite a bit lower than that because there was a negative mix in that quarter and I am wondering if the mix comparison is getting somewhat more normalized as you move to the year is that going to put more pressure on the year over year ASP trends moving through the year?  We don’t anticipate any significant change in our ASP over the year Ed based on how we see the market right now.
Our view is that dollar growth will be slightly less than unit growth for the remainder of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from longbow Research Please proceed.
James your line is open.
…overall is essentially flat.
The mix is decidedly towards aluminum.
I guess at the end of the day I don’t know if you guys actually have this date but would you say that retail sales of Brunswick boats is specifically in line with that 1 % decline?  Is it better than that is it worse than that?  How should I think about wrapping all of those things together.
The way to think about it is better for us and that is why we think we are gaining share.
Okay so you think that sales of your boats are better than that down 1 so flat up at this stage of the game.
Yeah I’ll just say they are better.
Potentially flat.
Okay and then sort of a related question you touched one why ultimately the 17 % increase in your marine segment isn’t necessarily indicative of better demand obviously you are saying that you’re still shipping more boats in to the channel than are being sold out but ultimately conversations with your dealers can you just characterize those conversations?  Are these guys more optimistic than they have been? It seemed like it was a pretty good boat show season and certainly once you get more towards pull versus push is there more pulling taking place to the extent that some of the boats that are being ordered have some lead times? We are on a strictly pull model right now and therefore our whole sale sales are strictly being pulled by the dealer network so I think that tells you that certainly the majority of our dealers are quite bullish right now.
What we are watching with them and what we all want to be careful about is what is going on in the economy and what’s going to be the ultimate impact on US marine retail demand as well as global retail demand.
We and they are going to be ready to make adjustments as soon as we see any difference if anything happens at all.
Excellent that’s really helpful.
Thanks guys.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Dusty Mccoy for concluding remarks.
Thank you.
Thanks for everyone’s attention.
We have been going nearly an hour and as always I appreciate the quality of the questions and the candor by which we get the questions.
We look forward to seeing you guys at investor events that are coming up over the next several months and more importantly we look forward to talking to you in July when we have a much better feel for what marine demand is.
Thanks everyone for your time we do appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation’s 2011 second quarter earnings conference call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today's meeting will be recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in my mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thank you Bruce good morning everyone.
By now I am sure you had the opportunity to review our second quarter earnings release.
Our strong performance in the second quarter reflected higher marine wholesale shipments compared to the prior year.
Our boat and engine segments continued to perform well across most of their product offerings.
In addition Life Fitness experienced strong revenue and earnings growth and consistent with the previous five quarters our consolidated results continue to demonstrate strong operating leverage.
Our results in the quarter reflect revenue growth of 8% and net earnings of $0.75 per share including a $0.02 per share benefit from special tax items.
This compares to net earnings of $0.15 per share in the prior year which included $0.26 per share of restructuring charges and a $0.02 per share of expense from special tax items.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit impairment charges were $108 million in the quarter an improvement of $28 million as compared to the prior year period.
Our GAAP operating margin was just under 10%.
This represents our highest second quarter consolidated operating margin since 2005.
In addition to higher sales levels our earnings benefited from increased fixed cost absorption improved operating efficiencies lower restructuring charges and company-wide cost reductions.
Partially offsetting these items were higher material costs and variable compensation expense.
SG&amp;A remained relatively consistent benefiting in the quarter from lower bad debt expenses.
SG&amp;A decreased as a percentage of net sales.
Our cash and marketable securities totaled $677 million and net debt at quarter end was $110 million.
Peter will comment in his remarks on the key drivers of our strong cash flow during the first half as well as provide you with a perspective on our 2011 targets supporting our objective of generating substantial free cash flow for the remainder of the year.
Let’s review the preliminary second quarter US Marine industry data.
The second quarter data is based on 89% of April’s 78% of May’s and 66% of June’s marketing reporting.
Fiberglass sterndrive and inboard unit demand fell by 8%.
This compares to declines of 18% in the first quarter of 2011 and 29% in the second quarter of 2010.
For the first six months of 2011 unit demand fell by 12%.
Outboard fiberglass boat retail unit demand increased 3% in the second quarter.
This compares to declines of 3% in the first quarter of 2011 and 13% in the second quarter of 2010.
If this preliminary number remains positive it would be the first increase in this category since the fourth quarter of 2006.
For the first six months of 2011 unit demand increased by 1%.
Aluminum product demand increased by 7% in the quarter.
This compares to an increase of 6% in the first quarter of 2011 and a 5% increase in the second quarter of 2010.
For the first six months of 2011 unit demand increased by 7%.
After taking into account the different changes in unit volumes preliminary total industry unit demand was up 1% in the second quarter.
This compares to a 3% decline in the first quarter of 2011 and a 7% decline in the second quarter of 2010.
For the six months ended June 30 2011 total industry unit demand is down less than 1% over the same period last year.
The total industry demand includes the categories noted above as well as certain length and categories included in the NMMA definition of the total fire boat industry.
But it does exclude jet boats.
Thus far in 2011 the overall US marine market has been somewhat choppy.
As demonstrated by the variability of month to month demand trends as well as state-by-state relative strength and weakness.
However as you can see from the data the year thus far appears to be consistent with our plan for a flat 2011 retail market.
On the international front our engine segment sales outside the US increased by 6% for the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Our boat sales outside the US increased by 14% during the same period.
Looking at our growth in emerging marine markets outside the US Latin America continues to show strength versus prior year across both the engine and boat segments.
Growth is particularly strong in Brazil but the Mexico is also starting to show signs of improving demand although from a very depressed level.
We expect the growth trend to continue in Brazil as we accelerate development of our distribution structure and address Brazil’s fast growing market.
Market conditions across Asia also continue to be robust particularly in China with healthy commercial and government segment strength as well as acceleration of recreational marine market development.
Growth in developed marine markets is varied with sales volume continuing to improve in France Germany and the Netherlands.
On the opposite side Nordic markets are proving slower to recover due to higher interest rates and overall low consumer confidence in the region.
The UK and Italy are subdued but stable in spite of overall poor macroeconomic fundamentals.
Markets in the southern countries as Spain Greece and Portugal remain depressed.
Canada our second largest non-US marine market experienced the strongest growth rate of any of our developed marine particularly in boat segment.
Markets in Australia and New Zealand have only recovered slightly from the catastrophic natural disasters in the first quarter.
In summary similar to the US market regional strengths and weaknesses have been demonstrated throughout the global marketplace.
But the Brunswick marine business is driving growth via share gains and by market growth in those countries that are experiencing improving conditions.
During the first half marine Brunswick’s retail boat sales growth was greater than that experienced in the overall market.
This reflects our stated objective of improving our market share in the various categories in which we compete.
Our recreational fiberglass brands achieved market share gains in most categories.
Our aluminum brands also gained share although at lower percentages than on the fiberglass side.
As a result of increasing retail demand with our dealers we made the appropriate increases to our wholesale unit shipments levels.
Higher shipments combined with slightly lower discounts partially offset by the effect of a higher mix of smaller boat led to a boat segment sales increase of 10% in the second quarter and 13% for the first half.
Let’s take a minute and take a look at our dealer pipeline which we believe are at the levels for current market conditions.
In addition the amount each product in our pipeline remains a healthy levels.
We’re maintaining our pipeline at minimum stocking levels appropriate for the market.
Our pipeline is at 10% versus the second quarter of 2010 when the pipeline was too low as we ramped up production in the first half of 2002.
Our pipelines for fiberglass boats under 24 feet and aluminum product are up over last year second quarter.
Our pipeline for product 24 feet and larger is down.
In fact our pipelines for boats over 24 feet in length is at record low levels.
Our goal in managing our pipeline is to work with our dealers to have retail sales for wholesale sales all maintaining and among dealer inventory levels which permit dealers to meet seasonal demands and gain market shares.
In light of our market share gaining and the strength of the aluminum fish boat and pontoon segments the pipeline is in the correct position.
Our pipeline management plan will continue to reflect quarterly changes in the inventory levels resulting from seasonal demand factors and our dealers view of minimum stocking levels in light of on-going retail demand.
Our third quarter pipeline inventory should continue to contract as we wind down the model in Europe [inaudible] during the selling season.
As a summary for the boat group higher sale increased fix cost absorption fix cost reductions and lowering structuring charges led to the segment’s first quarterly operating profits this is the second quarter 2007.
A great reflection of the progress we making in our boat segment categories.
In our engine business global production in the quarter was higher than year ago levels.
We experienced strong growth in sales in domestic outboard business reflecting market share gains.
We saw increases in parts and accessories operations which led to the segments overall sales growth of 7%.
Revenue growth in Mercury sterndrive engine business was flat compared to year ago levels.
Although sterndrive boat retail demand experienced overall declines in the quarter Mercury was able to maintain consistent ales level as result of market share gains in its gas sterndrive product categories.
Mercury saw a top line growth the combined effect of cost reductions increased fixed cost absorption and improved operating efficiencies helped drive improvements in the second quarter operating earnings.
During the quarter the segment’s operating leverage was negatively affected by product mix higher variable compensation cost as well as an increase in research and development spending.
I will take a few minutes to give you a brief update on our engine production in Japan as well as to discuss Mercury global supply status pertaining to various parts and sources from the area that was affected by the earthquakes that occurred in March and June.
Mercury engine and parts production in North America and Asia have continued to operate without any disruptions.
Mercury small outboard engines are produced in Japan through a joint venture with the Tohatsu Corporation in a facility that was not damaged by the earthquakes.
This facility was shut down for only a week in April.
Currently all of this affected suppliers have implemented countermeasures and are now delivering production parts without interruptions.
In summary we continue to believe Mercury is well positioned to continue to beat market demand for all of its outboard and sterndrive engines.
Based on somewhat limited public information it is our belief that other outboard manufacturers in Japan are experiencing production recoveries.
But certain product categories are being more affected than others.
And we further anticipate industry supply to continue to return to normal as we proceed through the year.
Now let’s take a look at our two recreational segments.
Life Fitness continues to perform exceptionally well.
Sales were up 15% as compared to last year second quarter.
During the first half revenues increased by greater than 20% slightly less than $300 million which represents the second highest first half in its history.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew by about $10 million resulting in more than $40 million in earnings in the first half a record for Life Fitness.
In addition to the benefits from increased unit volumes a more favorable product mix increased fixed cost absorption and improved [body] experience contributed to the higher level of profits.
Sales in Bowling &amp; Billiard were up slightly in the quarter.
This increase represents the bowling segments first quarterly revenue growth since the second quarter of 2008.
Same-store retail bowling revenues were up below single digits.
Our bowling product sales were down slightly versus the previous year.
The segment’s operating earnings were about $4 million higher than last year’s levels due to improved operating efficiencies the absence of a prior facility write down and lower bad debt expense.
I will now turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financials and then I’ll give you an update on our perspective for the remainder of 2011.
Thanks Dusty.
I do want to begin by clarifying a portion of the balance sheet schedule included as part of our press release this morning.
Total inventory in this schedule is properly stated at $527.3 million flat with year end 2010.
However the schedule overstates our finished goods balance and understates our work-in-process balance by approximately $110 million.
We are in the process of correcting the schedule on wire and our 10K will obviously contain the correct information.
I will move now to an overview of certain items included in our second quarter P&amp;L and we will also comment on certain forward-looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring exit and impairment charges which actually reflected a net gain of approximately $300 000 in the quarter.
Ongoing restructuring actions at our Marine operations and the charges pertaining to them of approximately $5 million were more than offset by gains associated with the sale of the few of our idle marine properties.
Our current estimate for full year restructuring charges is between $6 million and $10 million.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was 21 million in the quarter a decrease of $6 million versus the same period in 2010.
During the first quarter of 2011 we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of about 900 000 on debt retirements of 25 million.
These debt retirements included a portion of the 2013 2016 and 2027 notes.
A debt extinguishment loss of 4.1 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2010.
In addition to 44 million of debt retirements completed in the first half of 2011 we have thus for retired 23 million of debt in the third quarter resulting in a debt extinguishment loss of approximately $6 million.
Including the impact of debt retirement action we’ve taken to-date we expect net interest expense for the remainder of the year to be approximately 20 million per quarter excluding any losses on debt extinguishment.
However it is likely that additional debt extinguishment losses will be incurred over the remainder of year as the company continues this efforts to reduced debt levels.
During the quarter foreign currency had a modestly positive effect on operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This includes the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect the currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-over-year earnings comparisons.
Changes in foreign currency also had a favorable effect on our sales in the quarter.
In the second quarter we recorded tax provision 17.6 million which primarily relates to earning from foreign operations.
In the second quarter 2010 we recorded provision of 15.2 million.
Now as a quick reminder due to companies three years of cumulative book losses in various tax in jurisdictions GAAP requires of the realization related to deferred tax assets be considered.
Consequently we continue to adjust our deferred tax valuation allowance resulting in effectively no recorded federal tax benefit or provision associated with our losses or income from our US operations.
Our 2011 tax expense will therefore continue to be comprised primarily of foreign and state income taxes.
Higher pretax income was the primary factor causing the increase in tax expense during the second quarter.
Our effective tax rate for the first half including special tax items was approximately 24%.
This rate is lower than our previous tax rate guidance due to the recognition of favorable tax adjustments.
We anticipate recorded favorable tax adjustments by year-end for matters that have not yet been concluded in certain foreign jurisdictions which will more than offset the impact of a modest increase in earnings from our foreign operations this year.
So as a result and given our current earnings guidance range we continue to expect our overall 2011 tax provision to be less than our 2010 tax provision.
Now let’s turn to a review of our tax – of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operations in the first half was $81 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of 54 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2011 is approximately 105 million.
Pension expense resulting from our defined benefit pension plans totaled approximately 16 million in the first half compared to 19 million in the prior year.
In the first six months the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of approximately 21 million.
The 5 million out-flow in the cash flow statement in 2011 reflects the amount by which cash contributions made during this period exceeded pension expense.
We expect our full year pension expense to be approximately 32 million which is a decrease of 7 million from 2010.
This reflects the benefit of higher asset levels plant contributions and lower interest cost associated with plant liabilities.
For the full year the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of at least 60 million to 65 million however these contributions could increase as the company continues to assess its risk of funding alternatives.
Changes in our primary working capital accounts or a use of cash in the first half year and totaled approximately 109 million.
And by category accounts and notes receivable increased by 122 million which is largely the result of seasonally strong second quarter sales.
Accrued expenses decreased by 23 million and partially offsetting these uses of cash was an increase in accounts payable of 37 million.
Inventories as I mentioned was essentially flat.
For 2011 our working capital performance will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions.
We currently believe the range should be between flat to a modest usage of cash.
And given the seasonality of sales in our marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital in the second half and essentially reductions in receivables to have a positive impact on cash flow.
Capital expenditures for the first half were 32 million.
Our 2011 plan continues to reflect approximately 80 million in capital expenditures.
This increase versus 2010 reflects expenditures to develop new products in anticipation of improving market conditions and to fund our marine manufacturing plant consolidation activities.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures was 16 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our marine segment.
During the first half of 2011 cash flow statement includes about 46 million of net investments made in short and long-term marketable securities.
This is part of the program initiated in the fourth quarter 2010 to expand the company’s cash investment program to include marketable securities with the maturity beyond 90 days.
The new program is designed to increase earnings on the portion of company’s cash reserves.
The investments have maturities of two years and less and include high grade corporate commercial paper and government securities.
The purchases and sales of these marketable securities do not affect our calculation of free cash flow.
So the summary during the first half we generated 73 million in free cash flow and after using approximately 50 million to retire debt our cash and marketable securities in the first half increased by about 20 million ending with a balance as Dusty said at $677 million.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is the net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately 229 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of 906 million.
When comparing year-over-year free cash flow amounts and cash balances to the first half I would remind you of the 109 million federal tax refund that we received in the first quarter of 2010.
And now I’ll turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding remarks.
Thanks Peter.
I’ll conclude our call today by reviewing our 2011 outlook.
As you can see from our first half performance we continue to remain disciplined to generate substantial free cash flow perform better than the market and demonstrate outstanding operating leverage.
As I said in my opening comments our plan for a flat 2011 marine market is unfolding generally as we discussed with you in January and April.
It also continues to be our view that smaller boats as in 2010 will continue to outperform larger boats.
Under our view the marine market demand has not changed we are now planning for a higher single digit consolidated Brunswick revenue growth.
This increase in our targeted top-line growth is based on our ongoing efforts as relative seamless experience thus far to improve market share in all of our business segments.
Our 2011 net income should also benefit from our previously announced marine plant consolidations as well as some of the items Peter has already discussed with you; lower restructuring cost along with reduced net interest pension and depreciation expenses as well as the lower tax provision.
Our forecasted third quarter SG&amp;A will continue to reflect comparable levels of operating expenses that were accrued in the previous two quarters with the exception of a gain on sale of a distribution facility recorded in the first quarter and the bad debt reduction experienced in the second quarter.
Also I would like to remind you that the SG&amp;A in the third quarter 2010 included a favorable adjustment to variable compensation expense.
After taking all these factors into consideration we currently expect our 2011 earnings per share to be in the range of $0.60 per share to $0.75 per share.
As a result of seasonal factors that affect our marine businesses as well as the potential for further debt retirement activity we currently expect our second half results to be a net loss.
The performance thus far in 2011 combined with the results we delivered in 2010 reflects all the hard work of our employees our leading dealer network and our suppliers.
Our strong brands outstanding product quality and a premier distribution network have enabled us to grow our businesses in part – for the most part as a matter of relatively flat marine market and a very challenging economy.
We remain confident that the recovery of global marine markets will be consistent with improving economic conditions overtime.
We are focused on growth without economic recovery and we are well positioned for continued growth.
We will maintain our focus on market share gains but we have significant other organic growth opportunities and have begun to prioritize resource and fund these opportunities.
In addition to market share gains in these organic growth opportunities we continue to monitor our fundamental marine industry dynamic coming into play which provides additional opportunity.
The average age of boats has increased by about five years since 1997.
Our internal analysis indicate an average age of about 21 years in 2010.
We believe the increase is primarily due to a higher mix of motor boats reflecting the ageing of boats sold during the 70s and 80s when new boats have also averaged 400 000 boats a year.
It is also likely that some of the increase can be attributed to owners holding on to their boats longer due to recent economic downturn.
Our analysis also indicated that boats built during the peak retail years of the late 80s which are now becoming 25 years old are reaching an age when obsolescence or scrappage should start to increase which could have a favorable impact on the boat sales.
And finally sustainable growth can be derived from our recreational businesses.
In particular Life Fitness continues to strength its position in the commercial fitness equipment marketplace.
We believe it will benefit from equipment replacement and facility expansion opportunities in new health club market venues as well as participation trends and demographics that should benefit both of our recreational businesses.
And as we continue to focus on organic revenue growth including specific regional opportunities throughout the global marketplace we will concurrently and opportunistically target debt reduction and pursue the full funding and eventual de-risking of our frozen defined benefit pension plans.
Thanks for listening and now we will take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
I guess I wanted to talk with the full year guidance change and its sound like a portion of it’s operating and a portion of it’s non-operating.
Can you maybe just help breakdown between those two things by giving us a sense of a change in your restructuring expense outlook and tax rate outlook and how much those two things combined account for the increase in full year EPS guidance.
Ed its Peter.
A we look at our guidance increase we see about $0.05 a share of it associated with restructuring reduction which is not a reduction as I said in expense but we have had offsets from gains and about $0.03 a share generally from a reduced view of taxes.
So maybe $0.08 of the $0.25 spread in the top end of the range would be associated with what we would call non-operating points.
The tax comparison versus our kind of model for this quarter was a much bigger benefit than that.
So that I guess that would have seen to imply maybe even a higher tax rate in the back half than what we and perhaps others have been modeling for is that the right way to read it? Well the reason we have said are 24% year-to-date and we had previously said we would be operating 32%.
So we are down from 32% and the 24% rate is going to be more representative.
Okay.
And then Dusty just to get a little bit more perspective on the marketing I wanted to ask you specifically about kind of the trade up segment because that's obviously where there's been the most pressure you know the decline is moderated in Q2 which is encouraging but it doesn't seem to be a whole lot of signs of life there and when I look at kind of that part of the market it seems like a lot of those customers are kind of in a similar financial position with respect to their boats and to the extent that they are still under water.
And we just kind of step to me that we could at some point see a real step change in that market in that segment’s growth rate.
But there's not a whole lot of visibility in our end as to when that might happen and I just love to get a little bit of perspective from you on that segment of the market in particular.
I think you accurately described what our feeling is.
There's a real opportunity for a step change and we don't know when it’s going to happen Ed.
My own view is that we need a couple of things to come into play.
Let's say three things one of which I believe has occurred two which are still to come.
The one which has occurred is the general decline in availability of (inaudible) boats.
Now I think the next two things that need to happen for us is first that we need the value of homes in the housing market to improve because some portion of these buyers because you believe that the statistics that 30% of homeowners are underwater on their mortgage.
Some percentage of those that maybe a lot percentage would also be applicable to people who own boats.
Until they can work their way through that they’re not going to be willing to take any risk on our trade of a boat or go upside down in any way on a trade.
And then the next name that has to happen for us is unemployment does need to improve because again if we think real unemployment not stated unemployment is nearing 20%.
Some portion of those folks are also boat owners and if we extrapolate the same percentage in the boat ownership those folks are also not in a position to take risk on a trade.
And until the economy improves dealers and I applaud them for this for not willing to take any risk on trades.
So all this in my judgment is on a rise and beginning to get better as the economy improves but we’re not seeing it yet.
Fair enough.
The only thing I’d kind of add is that it’s a confusing industry to cover sometimes because the changes you know the unit trends and the dollar trends can be a lot different.
So to that extent it would be helpful to the extent if you can to may be give us some disclosure where possible about the underlying drivers of your business in terms of units versus dollars and small boats versus big boats I don’t know.
How much of that you can give but any help there would be great.
That surely is something that we can work on.
We have a good view of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley and Company.
Please proceed.
You know first I was hoping we could actually touch on the unsung hero of your business segment the Fitness group.
Another quarter of strong growth there and impressive operating leverage.
Can you maybe drill down a little on what channels and geographies are driving the growth and may be comment on its sustainability and what you see as a potential kind of multi-year growth rate for that business? Let me answer the last part first.
We think multi-year growth can be double digits.
What’s happening right now is first as we look at the commercial market where we are very strong and we go to the clubs quicker lower end so you may not have the showers and a bunch of attendants there we can get in and out of club and exercise well.
And those club owners look for great equipment that has a long life and performs well and we are certainly serving that market well and capturing a big chunk of it.
We are seeing what we call the vertical segment which includes hotels et cetera continue to do well and in fact improving and we are capturing a nice part of that market.
And then global sales on this business are 53% of their total sales and global sales are doing very well.
So this is a business that with a great product an absolutely fabulous sales force and distribution mechanism that is attacking the market all over the world wherever there is some opportunities and it shouldn’t feel like they are missing many opportunities right now.
They are doing a great job.
And we think demographic cultural and other issues that we look at in the future business bode very well for this business.
And Dusty could you maybe talk about your strategy in the boat group model year 2012 you know obviously the market has been away nixing away from you for sometime now towards the smaller outboard products.
I mean do you feel like if you have the right innovative products you could draw some demand back to sterndrives or do you need to just kind of go with the market We are not satisfied at all which is sitting and going with the market.
And in fact we are working on some innovative product and you will begin to see that for the Fort Lauderdale Miami Boat Show Jimmy.
Okay.
I mean it’s great to see the boat group positive at the operating line you know kind of across industry volumes.
But assuming a flat mix what type of industry-wide unit sales do you think we would need to be at for the boat group to breakeven on an annual basis maybe 155 000 units is that about where you are at.
We can breakeven lower than that.
We’ve been relatively open about this and we will go ahead and state it.
Fundamentally our sterndrive and inboard businesses and our outboard business are profitable.
We have a couple of brands that are going through significant difficulty caused by other global conditions the state of our product in the market place or perhaps even how people are looking at certain segments.
We are working very hard to fix those businesses and if we don’t believe we can get them fixed then we need to take some other action.
But we don’t need the market once we take care of those issues to be at a 155 to 160 to be profitable on our boat business we can be profitable once we fix those issues and want to be clear at lower levels.
That’s helpful.
And you know as the marine industry stabilizes and you continue to see an improvement in your business do we start to see some improvement in the efficiency of the Cap structure by reviewing some of the cash on the balance sheet for debt pay down? Absolutely and I think that’s what we signaled here in this call as you look at second half.
We will be opportunistically and this got to be the right deal for us looking at transactions that are come in the door for us take care of debt and what we are signaling is if we do do some of that we will have debt extinguishment cost that will impact our earnings in the second half and we factored the potential for that into our guidance.
Okay great.
And just lastly could you may be give the weeks of dealer inventory at the end of the quarter? 31.5.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning and thanks for taking my call and congratulations on another really strong quarter.
A couple of questions I was hoping you could and it sounds like you are not going to quantify sort of the market share but I was hoping just may be qualitatively you can have us wrap our brains around the magnitude of the market share gain that you are seeing in the boat business especially in light of [re-max] reporting same-store sales this morning up 33% and the comment that new boat sales are up even more than that.
Now obviously there are lot of reason why they might be outperforming the rest of your dealer base geography begin one big reason but they are I think 20% of business or some where in that neighborhood.
So can you sort of walk us through maybe the magnitude of the type of market share gains that you are seeing? I lay awake last night I wondered how the heck I was going to answer this question.
So did I.
First a new one to how wide our dealer network which is getting these market share gains for us and sort of your line and bring Max who has done an absolutely outstanding job with the brands of ours so they carry all across United States.
But all of our dealers are happy to get these share gains.
I think it has… I’ll say this depending upon how one measures the market the segment we’re competing are in NMMA category.
In the second quarter we captured more than a [four] point across the entire of market share and as we look at the year-to-date something less than 1% and we were going to just keep driving for the rest of year.
Is that helpful to you? It is I believe I guess the other number you then need is through what the generally market share is and if you looking at mid-teens sort of market share you picked up a point that would be about 6% to 7% of our performance versus the industry is that generally how I should think about things I mean I guess depending on..
Your math is pretty good.
Okay accurate.
And then sort of along those same lines although I think you did a great job of answering that question.
You talked in the first quarter about how you shipped a little bit more into the channel versus what shipped out from a seasonal perspective in that but second quarter would be the reverse of that was that still the case in the second quarter boat sales looked like they were up pretty nicely but can you just sort of speak to the ship in versus ship out in the second quarter.
Yeah we shipped a little more than we shipped out and then again as I tried to call out James it was all small boats.
Fiberglass boats under 24 feet and aluminum boats and for the larger stuff they go the other way and in fact our pipelines are at record low levels and there are three things going on here that I don't want to make sure how like.
Buried down in the numbers and this is a statistic we have given that I am going to cut at one more level.
You know I have said across the industry we believe that dealer count had been taken down through this downturn by about 30% but then our store front count was flat.
But remember we cut about 30% of our brand out during this time and therefore our store front count has actually gone up in our continuing brands.
So as we've added dealers and these continuing brands we needed to stock those dealers up.
So there are at minimum stocking levels and what they believe is consistent with the marketplace and there has been some portion of this increase in our pipeline and the increase is that is increase dealers in what we’re calling internally are continuing brands.
That’s number one.
And number two the growth in the market has been in small boats and we were fairly open in 2010 that we lost share in 2010 for two reasons.
First we believe there were folks that we have done in that and just counting their rate of boats and we’re not going to chase those discounts.
Secondly we were fairly open that we didn’t ramp up at the dealer network with alike and the market which has given us this opportunity early in ‘10 and therefore our dealers were a bit hurt in the smaller boat sales where the customer comes in ready to do the transactions and there needs to be a boat there.
So as we worked through the minimum dealer the minimum stocking levels with our dealers has become apparent to us as we’re gaining share the market has flattened we stop the decline in this market it had been prior to this year.
We needed in our dealer account we needed more boats and with our dealers and initiatives this small boats.
So that’s what we’ve been doing.
It’s responding to dealer goals.
And overtime obviously this has always got to work out wholesales got to equal retail but they’re going to answers around season and we see the market or our position in the market change.
Very helpful and then sort of this last question our market share and I’ll get back in the queue.
Can you just speak it sounds like you’ve done a phenomenal job so far this year can you just speak to may be the sustainability of those market share gains both this year and beyond sort of what initiatives do you have here in the Q that will allow you to gain longer term market share and how much market share is there to get back to the historical levels? Is that a big opportunity in in of itself? Thanks.
First I do want the job that we are lining on.
We are talking about the boat market share but remember boat sales in 2010 were  hardly 25% of our sales.
Our engine sales were 50% of our sales and over on the engine side we have seen really nice steady improvement in market share in our outboard business boats highly competitive then in our sterndrive business it has been even a bit more impressive even though the sterndrive market is down more than we’ve been able to say its flat in our sterndrive gasoline business.
And that is driven by the fact that there is a large competitor there and it is certain gasoline (inaudible) with 4.3 liters et cetera.
But our engine business across the globe and particularly in the United States has been steadily gaining share now for several quarter and that is real important piece of our revenue increases and our market share gains.
And it is still important to understand the Life Fitness is a little harder to measure and its harder to find statistics there but we clearly believe as we see new clouds opening our association with the vertical market and the number of units there and that business is also taking share.
As we step back we tried to communicate that we are going to do wonderfully as the market improves.
But now we are not going to sit around and wait for the market to improve and we got to start generating growth.
The first thing we could do is get focused on market share because we have leading brands and leading products and leading distribution network.
We just have to get going.
We will continue there but we also believe and I mentioned in my concluding comments there are several many numerous or any word you just want to describe it.
Organic growth opportunities is available to this company and we are hard it work now on positioning ourselves to go capture them.
I don’t think we can get from market share alone get our sales back to previous session levels that there would be some impossible market share.
So we are just continuing to dig away in a market that we have but as importantly and overtime more importantly we are going to be looking at other organic growth opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Dusty seeing on the market share gain opportunity first of all you are alluding to gain share versus a competitor Volvo that’s walked away from a couple pieces of the gas market.
When does that anniversary largely I guess that’s the first part of the question and then in outboard if you could kind of give us a little more color granularity how much do you think gaining share was maybe due to a little bit of shortage of availability from competitors with the disruptions in Japan versus you said before and your alluding to here also I believe that you really haven’t taken on some of your outboard competitors and especially some other geographic market.
So just some color on those market share gains? Clearly some of the share gains we got was inability of some of the Japanese suppliers to getting them into the market.
Tim I can’t with accurate belief tell you what percentage of our market share gain has been caused by that.
But even before that we were seeing a share gain globally.
Okay.
But I do want to be clear.
Some portion of that that we have got here towards the end of first quarter and certainly in the second quarter has been assisted.
We have had a little wind on our back because of the Japanese problem.
As we look globally the one thing that as we put people on the ground all around the globe and establish real working offices with our employees and begin to work more closely with distribution network as there has been kind of awakening on our part of additional commercial and government opportunities especially in the outboard business and we have been hard at work capturing those.
And we are continuing to understand those markets on a global basis and are getting more focus on them and for those providers an interesting opportunity.
We also I think are doing a real good job of getting a little more than our first year of fast emerging markets Brazil as an example.
We have been in those markets for a long time.
We have been focused on recreation and as recreation of some of these markets have improved our longstanding nature and many of these markets has given us a real opportunity to do a little better.
So we see lots of opportunity we just got to stay after it and continue to put the right people in the right place and work with the right distribution.
I didn’t quite… And then I am sorry.
I didn’t quite understand the question on this sterndrives gravity and can you help me with that.
Yes so your comments there were all out-board correct? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then on the sterndrives the question is you know clearly you are gaining share again from global because and walking away some part of the market.
When is that when does that sort of fully anniversary I mean you were able to pick up share because they walked away is that or you pretty well done with gaining share due to that here in the first half of the year or should that continue to the balance of your investment? I think that there will be at least some more to gain because while we have credits and they can continue to build some of the non-catalyzed product I don’t think that they’ll be doing it in three way I think its four three and a couple of others.
So they still got to build for and use up all the credits so we’ve not gotten on the share we’ll be able to get yes.
Okay.
Okay.
And then before I think you throw it out in response to another earlier question on the breakeven level post fixing you said some brands potentially or not being able to and changing them.
Can you just again remind us of that is that around 130 135 000 units for the industry? Yeah that has been on the company on a Brunswick basis but yes 130 132 135 pick a number this company can be breakeven.
Okay.
Okay.
And then and I apologize if I missed this in other call right before you ran over tad bit.
The cadence of your retail sales across the quarter April through and then maybe through July here can you just sort of give us an update there as to how that trended especially in the developed markets? No no.
With any number or any view that I would be comfortable talking about July but April was a nice month May was not a nice month and June was a nice month.
And I alluded to that in my comments that even within quarters it’s been fairly lumpy.
But the second quarter overall two out of three were good.
Okay.
Okay.
And then from a more of a let’s call it a congressional standpoint a lot of fluid pieces in watching in these days but there has been some proposals to eliminate the second home mortgage interest deduction and rates of both yet not are these are literally homes.
Can you talk about anything current where that stand from your standpoint and the potential impact more so for the industry or Brunswick in particular how are you looking at that planning for that should that come about? First I have no good information and about which I can update you on the present status.
It will obviously have an impact but our view is that it will not materially impact us.
Okay.
Okay.
And just a little bit more color as to why are you taking that view exactly? Just looking at the profile of our buyers.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
And then and general dealers continue to remain cautious and talks about some areas are a little too much inventory in the channel of the larger boat or that is you’re a little bit under; how is your receptivity over the quarter here has it gotten a little bit better the willingness to take inventory or not and then how do you feel about that? I want to make sure that on the first part of our statement before we go to the questions I have kind of the view that we have too much inventory anywhere and that leads me then to answer your question.
Generally if you mop over comments from our dealer network is that they need a few more boats.
Okay.
And we just work with them on a day-to-day basis around that and one of the great things our manufacturing footprint now it gives us the opportunity to do as we can I don’t want say turn on down but we can turn and have a football field where before it took us that miles and like production judgment and we’re getting pretty good at that.
Your next question comes from the line of Rommel Dionisio from Wedbush Securities.
Please proceed.
Yeah thank you.
Dusty I wonder if you can just comment briefly on used boat pricing some of the trends you’re seeing both at the lower on the aluminum the boat and may be compare that with the higher and fiberglass larger fiberglass boats? Stabilized not to free downturn level but certainly not continuing to fall and generally since the beginning of the downturn where they dipped dramatically have probably risen and are now stabilized.
Okay.
And one last question with regards to dealer health I imagine that the Bayliner and the Cypress Cay you know those dealer brands are doing pretty well – dealers of those brands are doing pretty well but what about your Hatteras your Meridian.
I mean obviously this has been several years now for the continued difficulty on the higher and larger fiberglass boats and are you seeing the attrition or might you expect to see some attrition among dealers of those higher end-brands? If we do with Meridian first; Meridian is generally and fundamentally sold through the Sea Ray distribution network and therefore there is absolutely no issue with the dealer network for Meridian.
Our largest dealer for the Hatteras brand is MarineMax and obviously they are doing quite well.
We have had some smaller dealers we work to position them so that they no longer need to stock the big expenses of Hatteras product but they continue to act as dealers for us in all of the good markets.
So we are comfortable with their position.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Thanks guys.
Just a couple of quick questions I think you said that weeks inventory was 31.5 but earlier you said it was at 10%? Yes.
And did -- a year ago and I think it was 27 did that change? Did the 27 change? Yeah.
I know we have done some adjustments for brands going at now.
I am looking out some real quick Joe.
Its 31.5 from 27 about….
31.1 versus 27.1 I think the exact number.
Got it okay.
Just wanted to confirm nothing changed yeah could you state what your retail was up in the quarter? Our retail was up in the quarter? Yeah.
I know you kind of gave the industry numbers broken out by each of the segments.
But how much was your retail up in 2Q? It was up 7%.
Okay.
And was there a geographical… And then I want to answer that that’s in units.
That’s a units okay.
Not globally yeah.
As Peter just reminded me it’s a good point.
That’s global? Yes.
Okay.
Was very any variance of geographically in the states; one region stronger than the other all regions out there any reason…..
I got you.
It’s almost night and day on a regional basis in United States.
If we look across outboards we see states like Minnesota Michigan Ohio we all know eventually Arkansas Louisiana all but we can also look at a whole various states that are down.
When we look at the sterndrive inboard market you know the West Coast is really really down.
It is but – it’s an absolutely difficult market in every place out there.
We have some great dealers who have done a very good of improving market share but these are really tough markets.
On and we see places like Florida and Michigan where things are getting better and when we are positioned with our data network to take advantage of that.
Okay.
That’s all I have thanks guys.
Thank you Joe.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for closing or concluding remarks.
Thanks everyone for being on the call.
As always we appreciate the great questions.
I want to make sure that I have got a – I have wobbled around a couple of questions I want to make sure I am very precise in my answer.
At today’s market and we said we’re thinking marine market is flat it’s going to be flat and that’s 130 000 some probably on the hard side of 130 000.
And we’re obviously much better than breakeven in all the guidance we’ve been giving.
And after we fix the brands that we’re working hard on and are having difficulty right now.
The boat segment in our view will be breakeven at the markets that we’re at today.
I just want to make sure I clarified all that because I wandered around it a couple of times.
Thank you for attending our call.
Thanks for the great questions and we’re going to go back to work and if you have more detailed questions obviously Bruce is always available to everyone.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Operator Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation’s 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today’s meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Corporate and Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in my mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings in today’s press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy.
Thanks Bruce and good morning everyone.
By now I hope you’ve had the opportunity to review our third quarter earnings release.
I know a lot of folks have been releasing today.
Our quarterly results continued to reflect solid performance across all of our business segments.
Third quarter nine-month operating earnings achieved our highest level since 2006.
This outstanding performance by our four business segments was accomplished despite some very difficult economic conditions.
Consistent with the previous six quarters our consolidated results continued to demonstrate strong operating leverage.
As we highlighted on our second quarter call our SG&amp;A expenses in the third quarter of 2010 included a favorable adjustment to variable compensation expense.
If we exclude variable compensation expense from our 2011 and 2010 results our operating leverage for the quarter would be in our 2011 targeted annual range of 30% to 40%.
Our results in the quarter reflected year-over-year revenue of 8% and net earnings of $0.05 per share including $0.14 of restructuring charges $0.13 from losses on debt retirement and a $0.01 expense from special tax items.
Excluding these three items our diluted earnings per share would have been $0.33.
This compares to net loss of $0.08 per share in the prior year which included $0.14 of restructuring charges and a $0.01 charge from losses on debt retirements.
Again excluding these items 2010 third quarter diluted earnings per share would have been $0.07.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $49 million in the quarter an improvement of $11 million as compared to the prior year period.
If we exclude variable compensation expense from our 2011 and 2010 results our operating earnings increased by about $24 million in the quarter.
In addition to higher sales levels our earnings benefited from companywide cost reductions improved operating efficiencies and increased fixed cost absorption.
Partially offsetting these items was the previously mentioned higher variable compensation expense.
Our cash and marketable securities totaled $547 million and our total debt outstanding at quarter end was $703 million.
This is our lowest debt level since the first quarter of 2004.
And you can see that lay down in the supplemental chart I think we labeled it chart number one to our earnings release.
Peter will comment in his remarks on the key drivers of our strong cash flow in the first nine months as well as provide you with a perspective on our 2011 targets supporting our objective of generating free cash flow for the year.
Now let’s take a look at our operating segments starting with the marine engine segment.
From a geographic perspective Mercury’s non-U.S.
revenues increased by 12% in the quarter with all major markets experiencing growth and with relative strength demonstrated in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Our Europe’s growth in the quarter was healthy.
Results do continue to vary widely across the region.
Revenues in Russia were extremely strong and revenues in core markets such as Germany France Italy and Holland also increased at a healthy rate.
However the markets in southern and northern Europe continued to be quite weak.
Asian demand was very robust in the quarter put along by strong macroeconomic growth led by China.
Asia’s growth is more than offsetting subdued market conditions in Australia and New Zealand.
Overall Mercury continues to experience growth outside the U.S.
due to sales into commercial and government segments low re-power activity and healthy demand for service bars and accessories in all market segments.
U.S.
revenues increased by 8%.
In the aggregate the segment experienced top line growth of 9% for the quarter and 10% for the nine months.
From a product category perspective sales on our outboard engine business continued to experience growth reflecting in improving aluminum and fiber glass outboard boat marketplace as well as from market share gains.
We believe the overall impact of Japan’s catastrophic events earlier this year and the resulting supply issues were for the most part not a material factor in the overall competitive landscape during the quarter.
Available engine production at Mercury in the quarter was higher than year ago levels.
Mercury’s parts and accessories businesses continued to report solid increases in revenues.
Sales declined in the sterndrive engine business compared to year ago levels.
However Mercury is able to offset some of the declines experienced in the overall sterndrive boat market with market share gains.
Mercury’s top line growth with combined effect of cost reductions in improved operating efficiencies all had a positive impact on third quarter operating earnings.
However during the quarter these positive earnings and the factors were more than offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix higher material and variable compensation costs and restructuring charges as well as increase in R&amp;D spending.
In our boat segment revenues were equal to the amount reported in the prior year’s quarter.
This comparison was affected by the divestitures of two fiberglass brands.
Sealine completed on August 31 of this year and Triton completed on July 29 2010.
if we exclude the sales of both brand in the segment’s results in 2010 and 2011 revenues were up 3% in the third quarter and 14% for the nine months.
We have attached the summary of the U.S.
powerboat industry demand statistics provided by statistical surveys incorporated.
As you can see from the data the U.S.
retail market – marine market for 2011 is on totally and generally as we’d expected with the aluminum fiberglass outboard boat market experiencing solid growth while the fiberglass sterndrive boat markets continue to decline albeit in a more moderate phase versus the prior year.
I mentioned this document is attached to our press release I think the LIBOR is chart two.
On the international front also adjusting for divestitures our boat segment sales outside the U.S.
decreased by about 11% for the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Canada now our largest non-U.S.
built market experienced strong growth.
Asia-Pacific also experienced growth in the quarter led by China which offset liking markets in Australia and New Zealand due to weakening conditions in those markets.
European fiberglass boat sales softened due to lower consumer confidence levels resulting for macroeconomic concerns across the region.
In the first nine months of 2011 Brunswick’s retail boat sales growth was greater than that experience by the overall market.
This performance reflects our stated objective of improving our market share in the best categories in which we compete.
Our recreational fiberglass plans achieved market share gains in most categories our aluminum brands also gained share although it was at lower percentages than on the fiberglass side.
In summary as a result of increasing retail amended our dealers we made the appropriate increases to our wholesale unit shipment levels.
The result in higher U.S.
shipments come down to a slightly lower discounts partially offset by low international shipments in the effect of a higher mix of smaller boat sales let the boat segments adjusted in sales growth of 3% in the third quarter.
We continue to make our top-line the stocking levels are appropriate for the market.
our top-line is up 8% versus the third quarter of 2010.
The quarter ended with a 26 weeks of product non-hand on a trailing 12 month retail basis which is comparable to the weeks on hand at the end of the third quarter and 2010.
Our top-lines for fiberglass both under 24 feet and aluminum product are up over last year’s third quarter while our pipelines for fiberglass product 24 feet in larger is down and remains a record low levels.
Increased fixed cost abruption and cost reduction is led to lower operating losses for the both segment in the quarter.
Now let’s look at our two recreation segments.
Life fitness completed another outstanding quarter.
Sales were up 14% as compared to last year’s third quarter.
During the first nine months revenues increased by 20% U.S.
commercial revenues continue to be strong during the quarter with sales growth experienced in all major distribution channels.
International sales were down modestly in the quarter resulting from lower orders from Europe.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew by about $6 million resulting in about $65 million in earnings in the first three quarters a record for life fitness.
In addition to the benefits from increased unit volumes a more favorable product mix contributed the higher level of profits.
Sales in bowling and billiards were up 7% in the quarter.
This increase represents the bowling segment second consecutive quarter with growth and revenue.
Our bowling products business experienced strong domestic growth with same store retail bowling – while same store retail bowling revenues were flat versus the prior year.
The segment’s operating remarks were about – earnings were about $2 million higher than last year’s levels due to higher sales and improved operating efficiencies.
Now turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financials and then I’ll come back to give you an update on our perspective on the remainder of 2011.
Thanks Dusty.
I’d like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our third quarter P&amp;L and also comment on certain forward looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring exit impairment charges which were $13.2 million or $0.14 in the quarter.
The majority of the charges retained the previously announced sale of our C-line brand as well as ongoing actions in the marine operations.
Our current estimate for full year restructuring charges is between $20 million and $25 million.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was $30 million in the quarter an increase of $7 million versus the same period in 2010 primarily due to higher debt extinguishment losses.
During the third quarter we reduced debt by $84 million and have completed a $127 million of debt retirements in the first nine months of 2011.
In addition we thus far returned approximately $8 million of debt in the fourth quarter resulting in additional debt extinguishment losses of approximately $1.5 million.
Now including the impact of debt retirement actions we have taken to-date we anticipate net interest expense for the fourth quarter to be approximately $70 million excluding any losses on debt extinguishment.
However it is likely that additional extinguishment losses will be incurred during the remainder of the year and into 2012 as the company continues its efforts to reduce debt levels.
During the quarter foreign currency had a negligible effect on operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This includes the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect the currency exchange rate fluctuation tab on year-over-year earnings comparisons.
Changes in foreign currency did have a favorable effect on our sales in the quarter.
Our effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2011 was approximately 23%.
This rate is lower than our previous tax rate guidance due to the benefits of certain incremental reductions in the tax provision.
As a result of the decrease in the effective tax rate our tax provision in the third quarter was zero.
In the third quarter of 2010 we recorded provision of $5.3 million.
As a quick reminder due to the companies three years of cumulative book loses in various tax and jurisdiction that requires that the realization of the related deferred tax assets be considered uncertain.
Consequently we continue to adjust our differed tax valuation allowance resulting in effectively no recorded federal tax benefit or provision associated with our losses of income from US operations.
Our 2011 tax expense will therefore continue to be comprised primarily of foreign and state income taxes.
Given our current earnings guidance range we expect our overall 2011 tax provision to be less than our 2010 tax provision.
Now let’s turn to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operations in the first nine months was $81 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of $79 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2011 is approximately $105 million.
Pension expense resulting from our defined benefit plans totaled approximately $24 million in the first nine months compared to $29 million in the prior year.
In the first three quarters the company made cash contribution to its defined benefit pension plans of approximately $42 million in total.
The $18 million outflow in the cash flow statement in 2011 reflects the amount by which cash contributions made during this period exceeded pension expense.
We expect our full year pension expense to be approximately $32 million which is a decrease of $7 million from 2010.
This reflects the benefit of higher asset levels planned contributions and lower interest costs associated with plan liabilities.
Over the full year the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined pension plans in the range of $75 million to $85 million.
Changes in our primary working capital accounts excluding the impact of divestitures resulted in a use of cash in the first nine months of the year and totaled approximately $130 million.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by $63 million inventories increased by $22 million and crude expenses decreased by $58 million.
Partially offsetting these uses of cash was an increase in accounts payable of $60 million.
For 2011 our working capital performance will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions.
We currently believe that changes in working capital should result in a modest usage of cash.
Given the seasonality of our sales and our Marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital in the fourth quarter especially reductions in receivables to have a positive impact on cash flow.
Capital expenditures of the first nine months were $58 million our 2011 plan reflects approximately $85 million of expenditures.
This increase versus 2010 reflects expenditures to develop new products and to fund our marine manufacturing plant consolidation activities.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures were $23 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our marine segments.
During the first three quarters of 2011 the cash flow statement includes about $60 million of additional net investments made in short and long-term marketable securities.
This is part of the program initiated in the fourth quarter of 2010 to expand the company’s cash investment program to include marketable securities with the maturity beyond 90 days.
This new program is designed to increase earnings on the portion of the company’s cash reserves.
The investment maturities are two years or less and include high-grade corporate commercial paper and government securities.
Cash flow in the third quarter also included a transfer $20 million of restricted cash transfer $20 million too restricted cash.
This reflects cash used by the company to collateralize the portion of the company’s obligations related to workers compensation claims.
Company is required to provide collateral against these obligations under the terms and agreements with insurance companies or state regulators.
The company is traditionally collateralized these obligations with letters of credit or surety bonds.
This new arrangement will result in approximately 500 000 of annual savings.
Related cash remains on the company’s balance sheet and is reflected as restricted cash but is excluded from our definition of total cash in marketable securities.
Neither of these transactions affects our calculation of free cash flow or liquidity.
In summary during the first three quarters of 2011 we generated $59 million in free cash flow and after using approximately $145 million to retired debt plus the $20 million transfer to restricted cash.
Our cash and marketable securities in the first nine months decreased by about a $110 million ending with the balance of $547 million.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is a net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $243 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of $790.
And I’ll turn the call back to Dusty now for some concluding comments.
Thanks Peter.
I’ll conclude today by our commenting on our outlook.
Thus far in 2011 we successfully executed our core strategy of generating free cash flow performing better than the market and demonstrating outstanding operating leverage.
As I said the retail marine market for 2011 is unfolding inline with our plan with the Aluminum and fiberglass outboard markets experiencing solid growth.
And the fiberglass turn drive markets continuing into decline albeit at a more moderate pace.
In summary the 2011 total U.S.
market appears to be flat up slightly when compared to 2010.
As we entered the final quarter of 2010 we’ll continue to focus on this core strategy as well as pursue various operational and financial strategic initiatives that will enable us to continue to deliver future revenue on earnings growth.
During the quarter we’ll continue the business in our products to give our dealers and distributors the opportunity to gain market share.
In our Engine segment we announced the plan in September for Mercury to assume future responsibility for worldwide sales service distribution and support for the Cummins MerCruiser Diesel line up of high–speed diesel marine engine system including the TDR range of Volkswagen engines.
The Volvo diesel market is an area that (Mark) and his team have identified as an excellent growth opportunity for us over the next several years.
For the remainder of 2011 and even beyond we believe our fitness in bowling and bayers businesses can continue to benefit from their market leading positions in overall operating strengths to deliver strong earnings in cash flow.
We are still planning for a higher single digit consolidated Brunswick revenue line of growth for 2011.
This targeted top-line growth is based upon improvements in market share and all of our business segments.
For the year net income will benefit from a previously announce marine plant consolidations and assets sales or restructuring cost reductions in interest depreciation and pension expenses as well as from a lower tax provision.
After taking all these factors into consideration we currently expect our 2011 earnings per share to be in the range of $0.65 per share to $0.75 per share.
(Indiscernible) seasonal factors affect the fourth quarter results of our marine related businesses.
Our strong brands outstanding product quality and a premier distribution network have enabled us to grow our businesses in a great challenging economy.
We remain confident that overtime the recovery of global marine markets will be consistent with improving economic conditions.
We are focused on managing our businesses to deliver growth flat marine market environment.
Our growth strategies (indiscernible) on the successful delivery of singles and doubles rather than risky path of swinging for (indiscernible).
Portion of our growth initiatives with the study introduction of improvements and breakouts some our existing product lines such as Mercury recently launched 150 horsepower outboard engine.
Last week received in international innovation of board signing of slight way and its superb fuel efficiency in performance.
Another exciting product enhancement is like fitness is iPhone and iPad touch comparable virtual train our website.
That services two exercises customize in track and appropriate work our plan.
At the same time were designing introducing completely new products expand our current portfolio.
Mercury is outboard business is been successfully developing clean fuel systems for the marine industry and is also a recipient.
Our international product innovation award and in bowling we were soon introduce of battery power line conditioning machine offering proprietary is more convenience.
We are also focusing our focus on the marketing in sales of Brunswick products in those markets for the sales growth is highest.
Both group recent note to manufactures Sea Ray and Bayliner were boats in cruisers in Brazil Brunswick one example of that.
These products on regional initiatives will drive continue growth in share.
Move us into new products segments and result in sales and earnings growth for Brunswick despite weak marine markets.
At these markets recover our growth will be further accelerated.
As we look forward to 2012 on organization is focused on maintaining its favorable cost position and generating continued revenue in earnings growth.
Particularly through these organic growth initiatives we further believe that are 2012 lend income will benefit from previously announced from marine cost reduction activities lower restructuring cost and reduction in interest expense.
And as we continue to focus on organic revenue growth local currently and opportunistically target debt reduction and pursue the full funding an eventual de-risking of our frozen defined benefit pension plans.
Thank you for your time and now we will be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Ed.
Hi I guess I wanted make start by (indiscernible) differ on the engine margins in the quarter you listed in number of factors with those for ability that bridge we see with last year with those kind of order of magnitude as you discuss them?  Yes (indiscernible).
That’s typically they were report that’s only always start report.
Okay helpful.
Thank you.
And then on the international with the performance was kind of different between boats and engine were seems in Europe.
Sounds like you saw pressure on both for not really in engines and then I think in Asia Pacific I think you said that China offset pressure in Australia and New Zealand for the engine business.
But I think you can said the opposite about the boat business just can wondering at high level how should we think about the differences? First we intended to say that China helped the boat engines and boats and I’ll say we think this in Australia and New Zealand in both segments and so if I said differently I apologize.
Then is to the difference between the segments let’s try to go for the three things first in above business we serve recreational market and Europe is after the United States the largest recreational market and it’s been tough there for boat.
On the engine side that we serve commercial in government we get a lot of repower and we continue to have a very good P&amp;A business so as long as boats are used.
So that’s important.
And then thirdly as you look at boats how we report there is dollar change and we can have just a very small number of very large boats differ on a year-to-year and they can have a pretty dramatic impact on the dollar change so when you had all that up that’s a different between the two segments.
Thank you.
And then one last one I’ll pass it on but at the high-end of your guidance kind of state unchanged but you have observed the (indiscernible) charge which we didn’t know about last year.
Should we think about the quarter in terms of effectively rates to a guidance excluding that and so what’s the kind of the incremental driver versus when you last uploaded your guidance.
As far as I hope you take low and bottom as the rates is that it was our intent.
Secondly perhaps that the biggest driver as repositioned primarily our marine products this time a year for continued market share growth next year.
We need to get a lot of product position and the pull through of retail into our production and wholesale here in the fourth quarter is strong we have very strong backlog and our dealers are really looking for us the product for them so we indeed to go to work a little more in the fourth quarter in order to be ready for the selling season next year.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Can you talk about the promotional activity in the marine engine market may be segregated by outboard and sterndrive are you feeling the effects of some renewed promotional activity out there in outboard market either here or a broad and may be how do you see that playing out through the boat shows easing in the spring.
Our promotional activity is unchanged on a year-to-year basis.
And in fact we are Peter is just helping me here he is the fount of all knowledge on numbers.
We’re actually helped about lower discounts on a year-over-year basis in both engines and boat.
So we’re growing share here is to real understanding without the need to do any discount in effect for going share doing a less discounting.
And I think that attribute to our very strong dealer network.
Great.
Are you seeing more promotional activity from your competitors may be specifically (indiscernible).
No no not at all.
Okay excellent.
You got a good feel of market as you know some manner so we can go look.
Can you may be share the mercury’s P&amp;A number for the quarter.
Which number? A P&amp;A sales in the quarter.
That’s not a level of detail here that we’re going to I think from time-to-time we have given the percentage of total sales is probably get to the same number but I don’t know I have that one that’s differ from my finger right now.
Okay fair enough.
So I wanted to touch on this retail slide that you offer first thanks for providing that but I wanting to get some color on MMA reporting lot sales basically here in Q3 and how you kind of reconcile that with the SSI numbers and may be what you are seeing out there and what’s positive – a meaningfully positive growth in aluminum and positive growth in the fiberglass outboard which kind of dominate unit volumes and a category you anticipate in.
Would you say that’s fair that you are kind of seeing at least low single digit positive growth in total of your shared the market.
First you made the things between SSI and in MMA and the chart we publish is really SSI view of the total ministry that NMMA covers kind of a strange way to say it.
That chart is an SSI chart.
Here’s the way I’d say it.
On a year-to-date basis we believe our retail sales are up 9% versus the industry laying up 1%.
And we believe our retail we know our retail in the third quarter was up significantly more than the 9% on a year-over-year basis.
So we’re quite comfortable that we are gaining shares.
We look at segments we think we’re gaining share and across the board in stern-drive inboard fiberglass product.
In aluminum fishing product we are probably losing on little share in outboard fiberglass but remember also that last year we cut back on the product offering of our Triton brand.
And it looks like there is a lot of small outboard fiberglass product getting sold in the third quarter.
The other thing I’d point out is the numbers I have given you on our sales growth.
It is our global growth and we don’t really report or talk much about what we’re doing in just the US.
We continue to ask our businesses to drive growth across the globe because we think it’s a whole boat world is looking at it the near-term growth opportunities are going to be outside the US and we got to be very good there.
Okay thanks for the color in clarifying that.
And just lastly on your debt repurchase activity well very active in the quarter it was a bit half weighted I suppose and I don’t want to ask for too much detail on your strategy I know you’re not providing 2012 guidance but can you give us some general color on how the magnitude of debt repurchases will track in 2012 relative to the magnitude that we have seen here in Q3.
And kind of what cash if you like you need to keep on the balance sheet and how you will be waiting debt repurchasing again pension contribution?  It’s Peter Jimmy.
First we will be waiting them essentially equally.
We have the same level we place the same levels importance on returning to our investment credit as we do on fully funding in permissive time our force and define benefit pension plans.
And so you will see that and this year for example we’re making considerable contribution $75 million to $85 million the pension plans and through today you can see from my remarks $135 million of debt reduction.
When we look to 2012 it is not possible now to give any hard and fast rule as to what the balance of cash contributions will be to either of those two strategic imperatives.
First because the debt reduction is very much in opportunistic and price in our treasury staff does on a week-to-week even day-to-day basis.
So it really does depend on a lot of moving parts and most fundamentally the price of the debt.
And it also depends upon our cash generation capabilities since we move through 2012.
The pension contribution of course has a lot to do with moving discount rates and asset valuation and that makes that difficult to asses exactly what we do in the future but as we look to 2012 I think the only scope I can give is we will continue to reduce debt and we will continue to fund our pension plan and both will be significant calls on our cash during next year.
And that is specific if we can get perhaps on our fourth quarter call when we know a few more facts we will be somewhat more specific.
Okay.
Thanks very much Peter and Dusty.
Thank you for your time.
You’re welcome.
Thank you Jimmy.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi great thanks for taking the follow-up.
You said about your retails sales in the quarter kind of treating so 9% number year-to-date what if memory surge wasn’t the number at Q2 more like kind of a mid sort of mid single-digits and Q3 is a seasonally slower quarter so that would just imply a pretty massive step up in the quarter.
Am I understanding that right? And then if so when you look at the different parts of your business where did you see that acceleration the most? Your interpretation in mass is actually right and we saw in both fiberglass and aluminum but more so in aluminum.
Great.
And then maybe just one other follow-up on the international question from earlier as I understand that you are kind of using your capabilities especially in P&amp;A within your engine segment to really kind of get a bigger foothold in some of these markets? And then ultimately you think that the both business would kind of follow that? How do you think about that as we go out the next couple of years in terms of the progress that you are seeing within your engine business in some of those markets and the ability to kind of drive the both business to capitalize on that? And I am not always sure that the boat business will follow the performance of the engine business because in these markets especially outside the U.S.
the markets themselves are so different as I said both are primarily focused on recreation.
Although I will tell you we are really beginning to move forward on government and commercial business in boats but for our engine business we are good at rack but we also have these other commercial and government opportunities and they can be very different than the rec opportunity.
Stepping back here is what’s happening in the boat world in our judgment.
Everybody sees the same set of issues around economies and then are looking for growing economies that have lifestyles and consumers who also like boating or can be attractive for boating.
And many many boat builders are going to these economies and therefore the winners are going to be people who can execute and we really like our chances in that environment.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
First of all again gentlemen congratulations to you and everyone on just I mean continuing great job there.
Thank you Tim.
We hope we are becoming boring.
It’s nice to be boring in this trajectory.
That’s what we are hoping.
A couple of things here Dusty given the divestitures of Sealine in the (indiscernible) can you update us if there has been any material change here on your statements that you have made before in the breakeven industry retail units that you need for the industry to achieve the corporate breakeven.
And then I guess the corollary of that is you have mentioned that you would have corporate operating margins similar to where the things were in 2005 at a certain level of retail unit sales.
So based I guess on those figures if that has moved the needle ending with these divestitures.
I am going at this way.
The divestitures have had an impact but more importantly as our businesses have rolled up their sleeve and they have done a magnificent job in identifying organic growth opportunities.
We think the margin and margin dollar targets that we previously disclosed are no longer applicable and we have not really set down and redone the numbers in a way that we can talk about MTM but if we have said our 200 000 units we would make more margin dollars than when the industry was at 300.
That number is fairly significantly lower now in our view based upon our ability to go forward but we have not done any detail calculations around that and that’s something maybe in the next call or two we will sit down and give folks a view there but these numbers have been lower but that is driven by our folks done a great job identifying beginning to execute against our granite growth conditions.
As what it’s lowered is the marine market volume necessary to achieve the objectives that we set out gosh I think it was in 2009.
Great.
So as a result of cost reductions and other things we’ve done at the company we find that we can achieve those numbers and even lower growing market but it just we said we haven’t seen the need to continually updated because we think our performance is in and up itself ratification that we are able to significant exceed those 2009 objectives.
Okay okay.
And then gentleman I think you’d refer to one of the prior answers the prior question that you were ramping up you sold the need the ramp up the papering a little bit just because of the good pull through and one of the prior chart that should given I think you’d said some more between 15 000 and 16 000 units in the inventory was a goal just an updated number from that perspective.
I think it’s going to be right now in the sort of market conditions we see I think we’d locked to walk out of this year was around 17 000 in (June) and the way to think about it is I said this in my prepared remarks under 24 feet fiberglass and aluminum we moved up so that we can keep our dealers in both going to the selling season above 24 feet fiberglass we really got out hands around that one carefully and we continue to run a record low levels.
If you ask me my concerned about any of that I’m going to give you surprising answer which you didn’t ask me but I do have a concern and the concern is may be we don’t have enough in the pipeline on some of the smaller product but our guys are working real hard to make sure we were positioning our leaders well for that showing too.
Okay.
And obviously that has implications to your – what you’d done here with your guidance and goes to the one of the questions I added ask earlier about the raising of the guidance.
Peter directly I think you gave us some numbers that you’d already repurchased I think you said $23 million in the quarter on debt and how much is that plus anything additional above that factored in to your $0.65 to $0.75 for the full year.
What we said well the $0.65 to $0.75 Tim is an all in number takes account of any activities that we contemplate the present time including any remaining fourth quarter debt reductions.
Okay okay okay helpful sir.
Thank you.
And then just the couple of housekeeping items anything that you can say at this point on restructuring expectations for 2012 D&amp;A CapEx for 2012 and then you said that the fourth quarter interest run rate would be about 17 000.
As you look to would that be exiting fourth quarter and obviously depending on how much more debt you repurchased but then should we annualized that 17 would that be a good starting point and may be goes a little bit lower for 2012.
Yeah first on the restructuring that’s obviously a function of decisions that we may in the future we would certainly expect and we said here now as to have a lower restructuring number next year but that’s not something we can absolutely promised because that’s will be what the future holds and in terms of interest for next year we did say that now the run rate has been reduced to $17 million and I can only say to the extent we buyback some more debt in the remainder of the fourth quarter that number multiply by four would go down somewhat as a run rate but I don’t expected there is going to be a significant if you will improvement in that interest number because we have purchased already brought back $135 million notional of debt already this year and in the next couple of months I don’t think that we will continue unless the opportunity is normal I don’t think we’ll continue at our phase.
And then the D&amp;A CapEx Peter at this point.
For 2012 please stay tune for the conference call three months from now.
Okay.
One other thing I think that you’d mentioned before gentlemen is that you talked about an annualized run rate of break-even on an operating basis for the boat segment exiting in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Again at this point would that imply that you’d still expect an annual loss in boats for 2012 or trying to get reconcile and given the fourth quarter is traditionally a tough quarter to begin with on a seasonal basis or should we expect a profit out of the boat segment in 2012 assuming you’d have larger seasonal quarters would be substantially reduced losses year-over-year or even may be some profits? Kim it’s a bit too early for us to give you those precise numbers because we have not done our plan yet for 2012.
Okay.
We will be able to give you a good view of that in January call.
Okay.
Great I’ll get back in queue for any other questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Starr with Nuveen Asset Management.
Please proceed.
Hi guys how are you? Well how are you? Fine you talked about expanding your relationship with I can’t remember who was gave comments on the diesel engine strategy.
And I am curious on that if you could just give us a little more color is that because you can get it into a better customer group.
I mean government and commercial customers especially overseas want diesel more diesel engines.
I mean what about the consumer market and if you could have had a better diesel offering now was your share you think have been even higher I mean can you talk about those opportunities (indiscernible).
What we’ve done is our CMD joint venture was the market oriented distributor of the high-speed diesel engines that the venture was offering new markup price.
And we moved that out of venture into Mercury.
And the real star of that line up is going to be the TBI Volkswagen engine.
And I saw a commercial this morning.
I mean more and more people are beginning to understand these under 350 horse power diesel engines perform as well are better than gasoline engines.
This is particularly true in Europe.
This TBI engine will do well in commercial and government Will you be able to will that be a big push in 2012 or not be till 2013? No we’re going right now.
Okay.
We announced that at the general boat show in September and early October and we’ve got folks lining up for the engines.
Are they significantly more expensive than your existing line up or are they the same price just keeping them more offering to pick some? It just gives us more offering to choose from and again it permits us to serve non-US markets who prefer diesel in a much more effective way.
Okay thanks.
You’re welcome.
The next question comes from the line of (indiscernible).
Please proceed.
Hi guys I actually had a couple of questions on your fitness segment.
And just see how you view the overall market going forward on the commercial side if you’re seeing a lot of new gyms opening up and if you are gaining market share there?  Perhaps Peter and I both should talk to this.
Peter has actually managed the business for good period.
Great great.
We are clearly gaining share in our view and we’re seeing a bifurcation of the fitness market and I’ll let Peter speak to that and how well we’re doing.
Okay.
Well I think the fitness market is extremely good now for two reasons first proprietors health clubs and hotels and gyms and universities are beginning to replenish some of the deferred maintenance of the machine rate that they did in the past over the difficult two years.
So the equipment has different spends of life but over time it needs to be replaced and when someone improving economic conditions you see the fitness industry beginning to reinvest in an equipment.
So that’s good across the board.
All right.
Are they mostly replacement machines or they actually expanding their….
No that’s actually the second part of the (indiscernible).
Okay.
The bulk of the industry replacement but there is also very nice increase in new health clubs that are driven to a great extent by the value proposition that says that with the somewhat more difficult economic times people are very interested in having an option of health clubs where there monthly fees can be within there individual budget.
So the (indiscernible) industry is growing at both into the spectrum.
First is growing on the value side with smaller clubs it have less offerings but they have a lot of fitness equipment.
Correct.
It also beginning to grow again on the high-end side for the upscale growth it all for our four major of offerings and so on both accounts life fitness (indiscernible).
Excellent.
And then I note historically you guys have been mostly all in commercial is there any push to go into the consumer market I know you guys evaluated around $3 billion.
So it seems like a significant market opportunity.
We’ve always said presence in consumer.
We are certainly attempting to grow our consumer presence because it is just arithmetically our greatest market share opportunity.
I think that we have more opportunity so we’re seeing more opportunities actually outside of the U.S.
on the consumer side and within the U.S.
But it will be an area of focused by fitness but importantly it will not diverted by fitness is focused from in score central meet in the theatres product line which is commercial.
Great.
Thanks guys.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi I have a similar question on the commercial side but in the other segments.
Can you just remind us what percentage of the marine and the boat business is now commercial – commercial and government I guess includes both together.
On the boat side is relatively small it’s going to be under $40 million under $30 million in that range.
On the engine segment I don’t actually know that because we did not something we track like we do on the boat side.
Because we have a business segment in the boat side that’s when you math do little bit of follow-up with Bruce Carla.
Okay but that sounds like at the growing area for mercury especially overseas is that correct? Sure it’s an opportunity for us.
Okay great.
And then at this point are you hedging any of your current (indiscernible) exposure? What we have modest currency hedges usually about 50 50% of our larger known exposures but it is just maintain in our hedge.
Okay.
I guess that’s all.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Please go proceed.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
Just a quick one on the follow-up to the fitness commentary earlier and could you maybe give a little color on what allows you to drive such high incremental margins in that business maybe kind of what the long-term if you can give over the next at least couple of three years what the right kind of operating leverages to think of how that business.
And separately as if you do become kind of expose to the consumer market and more kind of successful in that vertical.
Is that kind of deteriorate of operating leverage potential of this business? Well we will not answer the last question first.
What we’re certainly not going to engage in those portions of the consumer segment the marketplace that would had significantly lower margins from the commercial marketplace that would not be an objective.
We are enjoying very very excellent sales and operating margin conditions at the present time Jimmy and that is a function of things that will continue in the future which is that we have fabulous products the life fitness team has the fabulous sales force terrific installation terrific service terrific accessibility all the things that health club proprietors want a need all that will continue in the future and we open the product.
So it will be even accelerated.
It is also true that the life fitness is at the present time the one of the most significant suppliers of choice because it is an extremely stable company it is got a very very known and well-recognized management team and it is under the umbrella of the stable larger holding company with the stable capital structure and for health club proprietors.
I think they want to do business with the entity for the management team and everything about the business looks like it’s going to stay there.
And I think that drives significant sales and earnings at the present time which may not always the case in terms of the competitive situation.
So will these operating margins continue at their current terrific rates perhaps not will they always be strong double digits yes.
Jimmy I’d like to just comment one to add Peter to this brand is a really powerful brand.
And one of things we don’t want to do is going in any markets where we get drag into competitors that wanted play discount price.
Our brands stands for extreme quality durability reliability and the point Peter may high end or low end we’re winning the battle with our equipment on both hands of these clubs and that’s because of how great the equipment is the lowing that computed in forget about it.
How you got computed in and these got a right for his consumer for his customer then nobody else can provide.
And we’re going to protect this brand going forward very very diligently but it’s a great brand so it’s a great business team there really performing well.
And we want to be very careful and trying to push them into markets that they don’t really belong.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And just one more quick and I’ll ramp up and looking for some kind of qualitative commentary regarding you’re the sediment in your dealer network and maybe if you could compare sediment today at this time year ago and I mean 2011 to-date seems in-line with your expectations would say with in line with your dealers expectations and maybe how do you see their sediment impacting the appetite for inventory risk you model in 12?  First I think our dealers in our aluminum product line up you better this year than they did last year.
They’ve done a magnificent job of capturing share.
They pushed us very well keep the product upcoming and we continue to introduce new product and ramped up our manufacturing to serve them.
And there view in general is that please keep us stock so that we can exceed at selling season on phones.
On the fabric last said I think in smaller product that’s seems we generally there review is not quite a strong as it is aluminum I think in large fabric last product both we want dealers are going to be very cautious that’s (indiscernible) inventories are record loads in the amount of states in those products and they’re going be careful and large consumer sentiment and economic conditions in ‘12 before we could set to really begin to ramp up and put more product in their dealerships.
Thanks very much Dusty.
You’re welcome.
There are no further questions in queue.
At this time we would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
First thank everybody for serious of excellent and great questions.
They all went to the heart of several issues and how we are performing.
I am incredibly proud of our organization and what it’s doing and always said it a bit jokingly at one point to call we do want to become boring and we want to get away from big swings in this business than I hope as you watch as you become more and more comfortable that we just continue to perform and grow the top and bottom line with that worrying too much about overall economic conditions.
So thank you for your time and we will talk to you if not before in the next call.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation 2011 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today’s meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick’s Chairman and CEO; and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings in today’s press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy.
Thank you Bruce and good morning everyone.
By now I’m sure you’ve had the opportunity to review our earnings release.
We’re supplementing our remarks this morning with a slide deck that will be posted to our website at the end of our call.
We’re hopeful that this enhances our discussion of our financial performance for the quarter and the year.
2011 was an important year for Brunswick.
With the backdrop of global economic challenges and overall flattish retail marine demand our results reflect the significant progress that our company has made in growing its revenue and improving its earnings.
Results for the year reflected the successful execution of our core strategy of generating free cash flow performing better than the market and demonstrating outstanding operating leverage.
Market share gains throughout our organization combined with improved production and operating efficiencies generated 10% revenue growth and increased our operating earnings by $176 million.
In 2011 net income also benefited from the marine plant consolidations and asset sales lower restructuring costs reductions in interest lower warranty depreciation and pension expenses as well as from a lower tax provision.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $250 million for the year an improvement of $137 million as compared to 2010.
Operating margins ex-charges increased by about 340 basis points to 5.7%.
For the year our operating leverage was 40%.
Sales increased over $3.7 billion in 2011 with growth reflected in all of our segments.
Life Fitness experienced the highest level of sales growth at 17%.
Net earnings for 2011 were $0.78 per share including $0.25 of restructuring charges $0.21 of losses on debt retirement and a $0.07 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these three items our diluted earnings per share would have been $1.17 per share.
This compares to a net loss of $1.25 per share in the prior year which included $0.70 of restructuring charges $0.06 of losses on debt impairments and $0.03 of expenses from special tax items.
Again excluding these items 2010’s loss per share would have been $0.46.
In summary our adjusted EPS increased by $1.63.
At year-end our cash from marketable securities totaled $508 million.
Total debt outstanding was $693 million representing a reduction for the year of $138 million and our lowest debt level since the first quarter of 2004.
Peter will comment in his remarks on the key drivers of our strong cash flow as well as provide you with a perspective on our 2012 targets.
Our quarterly results continue to demonstrate solid performances across all of our business segments.
Results benefited from higher sales company-wide cost reductions and lower warranty cost partially offset by higher variable compensation expense.
This was our best fourth quarter operating performance since the fourth quarter of 2007 and our consolidated results continue to demonstrate strong operating leverage.
Turning to our fourth quarter results in more detail sales increased 8% with growth reflected in all of our segments.
Our Boat segment experienced the highest increase at 20% followed by Life Fitness at 11%.
Operating losses excluding restructuring charges were $14 million in the quarter an improvement of $43 million as compared to the prior year.
All of our operating segments experienced year-over-year improvements.
Operating margins ex-charges increased by 600 basis points.
Our Q4 net loss was $0.33 per share which included $0.05 of restructuring charges $0.03 of losses on debt retirement and a $0.05 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these three items our diluted loss per share would have been $0.30.
This compares to a net loss of $1.17 per share in the prior year which included $0.21 of restructuring charges and a $0.02 expense in special tax items.
Again excluding these items 2010 fourth quarter loss per share would have been $0.94.
In summary our adjusted fourth quarter of 2011 EPS increased by $0.64 from the prior period.
Now let’s turn to our operating segments starting with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective sales to U.S.
markets grew by 10% while sales to Mercury’s non-U.S.
customers decreased 2% in the quarter.
In the aggregate the segment experienced top line growth of 6% for the quarter.
Non-U.S.
revenues were affected by varying market conditions around the world.
Growth across Asia continued to be strong especially China.
On the other end of the spectrum Australia continued to be weak even during the height of the retail selling season.
In Europe business conditions were off slightly but with variations across the continent.
We experienced significant growth in Russia with a moderate growth across the stronger economies of Germany France and the Netherlands.
This growth was offset however by weakness across much of the Nordic region as well as in Italy and other Southern European markets.
The sovereign debt crisis is certainly having some impact on demand specifically with tightening credit in some market segments.
From a product category perspective sales in our global outboard engine business continued to experience solid growth reflecting an improving aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat marketplace in addition to market share gains.
Global outboard engine production in Mercury in the quarter was higher than year-ago levels.
Sales decreased modestly in Mercury’s sterndrive engine business compared to year-ago levels as market share gains only partially offset declines in the overall market.
Mercury’s global parts and accessories business which accounts for slightly more than 40% of the segment’s annual sales continued to report solid increases in revenues.
Mercury’s top line growth the combined effect of costs reductions and improved operating efficiencies as well as lower warranty costs and restructuring charges all had a positive impact on fourth quarter operating earnings.
During the quarter these positive earnings factors were partially offset by higher material and variable compensation cost.
The Engine segment excluding charges finished the seasonally low sales quarter with above breakeven operating earnings yet another indicator of the strong year Mercury had in 2011.
In our Boat segment fourth quarter revenues were up compared to the prior period.
And if we exclude the divestiture of the Sealine brand completed on August 30 growth was even stronger.
Strong global wholesale shipments in the quarter reflect the pipeline adjustments that were required to meet the small boat requirements of our dealers.
This increase combined with higher fiberglass shipments reflecting manufacturing shutdowns experienced in 2011 also affected the quarter’s growth.
On the international front adjusting for divestitures our Boat segment sales outside the U.S.
increased by about 17% for the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Canada now our largest non-U.S.
boat market experienced the strongest growth.
European marine markets were under pressure due to consumer concerns about macroeconomic conditions.
As a result we are projecting a decline in European industry sales in 2012 which we believe can be partially offset with share gains.
Returning to the U.S.
powerboat market as you can see from U.S.
powerboat industry demand statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Incorporated the U.S.
retail marine market for 2011 unfolded generally as we had expected.
Aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat markets experienced solid growth while the fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat market continued to decline although at a more moderate pace versus the prior year.
During the quarter on a full-year Brunswick’s retail boat sales growth was greater than that experienced by the overall market.
This performance reflects improving market share in the various categories in which we compete.
Our recreational fiberglass brands achieved market share gains in most categories.
Our aluminum brands also gained share although at lower percentages than on the fiberglass side.
In 2011 we increased our pipeline by approximately 2 000 units to reflect our view of stocking levels that are appropriate for current market conditions.
Our unit pipeline is up 12% versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
The quarter ended with 32 weeks of product on-hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis comparable to the weeks on-hand at the end of the fourth quarter in 2010.
Our pipelines for all aluminum products and fiberglass boats under 24 feet are up over last year’s level while our pipeline for fiberglass product 24 feet and larger is down and remains at record low levels.
The Boat segment’s strong sales growth combined with increased fixed cost absorption and cost reductions as well as lower restructuring charges led to lower operating losses for the Boat segment in the quarter.
Partially offsetting these factors were an unfavorable shift in product mix and a higher variable compensation cost.
Now let’s take a look at our two recreational segments.
Life Fitness completed another outstanding quarter.
Sales were up 11% as compared to last year’s fourth quarter.
For 2011 revenues increased by 17%.
Commercial revenues continued to be strong during the quarter with sales growth experienced in all major distribution channels.
International sales were up in the quarter but at a lower rate than that experienced in the U.S.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew by about $4 million.
For the year the segment reported on an operating margin of about 14.7% a record for Life Fitness.
In addition to the benefits from increased unit volumes a more favorable product mix contributed to the higher level of profits.
Sales in Bowling &amp; Billiards were up 2% in the quarter.
Our bowling products business experienced solid growth while same-store retail bowling revenues were up slightly versus the previous year.
The segment’s operating earnings were about $3 million higher than last year’s levels due to higher sales lower bad debt expense and improved operating efficiencies.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financials and then I’ll get back on to give you an update on our perspective on 2012 and beyond.
Thanks Dusty.
I’d like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our fourth quarter P&amp;L and we’ll also comment on certain forward-looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring exit and impairment charges which were $4.5 million or $0.05 a share in the quarter.
The majority of the charges related to the previously announced actions at our marine operations.
Also in the quarter we incurred a $3.8 million of charges pertaining to the announced dissolution of our Marine Engine segment joint venture.
This amount is reflected in the equity loss line in the consolidated statement of operations.
Our current estimate for 2012 restructuring charges is $10 million or $0.10 a share for actions that we previously announced.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was $19.6 million in the quarter a decrease of $3 million versus the same period in 2010 primarily due to lower outstanding debt balances.
Our plan for 2012 contemplates debt reduction in the range of $75 million to $100 million which would result in net interest expense for the year of approximately $76 million to $80 million.
This would reflect a reduction in net interest of $18 million to $22 million compared to 2011.
During the fourth quarter we lowered debt by about $11 million resulting in a $138 million reduction for the year.
As you can see from the chart – the nearest maturity – the 11.75% 2013 notes at an outstanding balance of under $75 million which can be easily funded by a portion of our cash on-hand.
It remains our objective to regain our investment grade status as we continue to lower debt levels and increase EBITDA.
During the quarter foreign currency had a negligible effect on sales and operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This includes the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect that currency exchange rate fluctuations had on year-over-year earnings comparisons.
For the year currency had a modest favorable effect on sales with a negligible effect on operating earnings.
For 2012 we expect that currency will have a modestly unfavorable impact on sales due primarily to a weaker euro versus the dollar.
There will be only a slight decline in margin percentage due to currency resulting primarily from the stronger yen versus the dollar and the euro.
Our planning incorporates yen and euro exchange rates that approximate the current market rates.
A further 10% weakening of the euro would reduce margins by approximately 10 basis points.
Our effective tax rate for 2012 was approximately 20%.
This rate is lower than our previous tax rate guidance due to higher-than-expected domestic earnings where due to our 3-year cumulative loss position; we don’t record a tax provision.
As a result of the decrease in the effective tax rate our tax benefit in the fourth quarter was about 31%.
In the fourth quarter of 2010 we actually recognized tax expense of $5.1 million primarily related to earnings from foreign operations.
Our 2012 tax expense will continue to be primarily composed of foreign and state income taxes.
Given our current earnings guidance range we expect our overall 2012 effective tax rate to be consistent with 2011 or approximately 20%.
Now let’s turn to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operations in 2012 was $89 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of $105 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2012 is approximately $95 million.
Pension expense resulting from our defined benefit pension plans totaled $32 million in 2011 compared to $39 million in the prior year.
In 2011 the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of approximately $80 million in total.
The outflow in the cash flow statement in 2011 reflects the amount by which cash contributions made during this period exceeded pension expense.
We expect our 2012 pension expense to be approximately $24 million which is a decreased of $8 million from 2011.
This reflects the benefit of higher asset levels planned contributions and lower interest costs associated with plan liabilities.
In 2012 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the range of $75 million to $85 million.
Changes in our primary working capital accounts excluding the impact of divestitures resulted in the use of cash in the year and totaled approximately $78 million.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by $17 million.
Inventories increased by $26 million and accrued expenses and accounts payable decreased by $33 million.
Our investing and working capital was higher than our previous estimate but this has not been caused by a deterioration in our working capital metrics.
Our receivable collection metrics continued to improve across all of our operating segments while our inventory turnover and payable metrics remain strong at prior-year levels.
The increase in working capital was predominantly related to timing considerations.
We increased both our engine and small boat inventory in advance of the marine selling season and our accrued expenses were lower than our prior estimate largely due to delays in the collection of customer deposits for our larger boats.
These deposits have or will be collected early in 2012.
For 2012 our working capital performance will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions and given the seasonality of sales in our marine businesses we anticipate using cash to fund working capital in the first quarter of the year and then generate cash from the liquidation of working capital over the remainder of the year.
This activity is expected to net to a modest usage for the year.
Capital expenditures in 2011 were $90 million.
For 2012 our plan is for approximately $120 million in expenditures.
This increase primarily reflects amounts required to fund our growth initiatives partially offsetting our capital expenditures in 2011 with $31 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our Marine segments.
In summary during 2011 we generated $43 million in free cash flow.
After using approximately $163 million to retire our debt plus the $20 million transferred to restricted cash our cash and marketable securities decreased by about $149 million ending with a balance of $508 million.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is the net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $231 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of $739 million.
I’ll now turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding comments.
Thanks Peter.
We continue to believe global economic and marine markets in 2012 will remain challenging yet comparable to 2011.
While we are confident that global marine markets will improve over time we are targeting mid-single digit revenue growth in 2012 along with a strong increase in operating earnings in a flat marine market environment.
We will focus on delivering growth by designing and introducing new products to expand our current portfolio and by increasing our focus on the marketing and sales of products in those markets where the opportunity for sales growth is highest.
These are our objectives to capitalize on immediate growth opportunities while funding future growth initiatives.
Additionally our entire organization remains focused on maintaining its favorable cost position a reflection of the significant actions taken over the past several years.
And we will continue to benefit from our strong brands outstanding product quality and a premier distribution network which have enabled us to grow our business during this very challenging period.
As a result of continued cost reductions and improvements in operating efficiencies our target gross margin for 2012 is approximately 24% up 140 basis points from 2011.
2012 capital expenditures SG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses will be higher than in 2011 as we find growth initiatives partially offset by a modest reduction in pension expense.
And as Peter commented 2012 net income will further benefit from lower restructuring costs and reductions in interest expense.
We expect to continue to generate positive strong cash flow and we’ll use that cash flow along with the existing cash balances to opportunistically retire debt and pursue the full-funding and eventual de-risking of our frozen defined benefit pension plans.
After taking all factors into consideration we expect 2012 GAAP EPS to be in the range of $1.20 to a $1.50 per share.
We do expect a slow start to the year in our first quarter top line performance.
Revenues are likely to be down in the mid-single digit range in the first quarter compared to 2011 when sales increased 17%.
Some of the factors influencing this decline are the absence of Sealine revenues the strengthening U.S.
dollar a large order from one of Life Fitness’ major customers in the first quarter of 2011 and lower Engine segment sales resulting from a reduction in the availability of sterndrive engine units.
Regarding sterndrive availability over the past year Mercury has been engaged in a complex consolidation of its sterndrive and large outboard engine manufacturing into a single facility in Fond du Lac Wisconsin.
This closure of our Stillwater Oklahoma factory – where the sterndrive engines was previously assembled – was completed late last year as the manufacturing of these products transitioned to Fond du Lac.
As the pace of assembly has accelerated at Fond du Lac we’ve experienced a slower ramp-up that will reduce the number of sterndrive engines we were planning to build in the first half of this year to meet expected customer demand.
This will negatively affect our engine and boat sales until this issue is resolved.
Meeting our customers’ requirements for sterndrive engines has the absolute highest priority at Mercury and we are intensely focused on taking the necessary operational actions.
We plan on discussing our outlook in further detail at our Investor Event in Miami on February 16 which will also be webcast.
At that time we will review our 3-year plan which we are basing on a concerted assumption that the global economic and marine market outlook will continue to be challenging and comparable to 2011.
Despite this conservative assumption the growth programs we will describe in Miami drive mid-single-digit revenue compound annual growth and double-digit operating earnings compound annual growth over the 3-year period as well as strong free cash flow.
Of course marine market improvements to our base case would accelerate sales and earnings growth.
We look forward to describing our growth plans on February 16 in Miami.
And with that we are through with our prepared remarks and we’ll be pleased and happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Please proceed.
Morning.
Congratulations on another great quarter.
A couple of quick questions for you guys I guess as I start to think about that $1.20 to $1.50 worth of guidance it sounds like you’re essentially saying that the working assumption is a flat industry.
So I guess two questions.
What are the major sources of variability between the lower end and the upper end of your guidance? And then ultimately how does that guidance change under sort of different industry assumptions to the extent that you could even qualitatively talk a lot about that? Well first what – we are guiding to a flat market flat marine market.
Our view is that aluminum product both fishing and pontoon will continue to increase that we will see some – also some increases with smaller than in aluminum in outboard fiberglass and in small sterndrive product; we believe larger fiberglass product will continue to be under pressure.
I think what could move us between or within the range would first be any worsening in the European situation than we’re presently seeing.
We think we’ve – we’re doing a good job there.
We think we understand how we can perform.
But if that situation were to change dramatically or I’ll put a quotes around these words “Meltdown in Europe” that could be a significant issue for us.
We’re a bit – befuddled would be my word and maybe not the organization’s word – about what the presidential election is going to do to the economy.
So again we’re assuming that the economy continues to behave generally as it has been behaving over the past six months.
If the economy were to get better of course we would be moving to the upside of those numbers and if it would get worse we would be moving to the downside.
That’s generally the things that we’ve got on our mind or we’re concerned about.
Okay.
And then just real quickly on the Boat segment.
Obviously I think better-than-expected performance over the course of the year but still a little bit of an operating loss during 2011.
What levers remain to help you drive a profit in 2012? And I guess ultimately should we expect a profit in 2012? And are there any incremental cuts to the brand portfolio that we should be expecting? There was – once upon a time there were two brands that you were considering getting rid of and it looks like you got rid of one of them.
What’s the status on the second? Well firstly we haven’t been actually considering and getting rid of brands.
I mean we’ve had the view that our Boat business must be running at a breakeven basis as we exit ‘12.
And we are fundamental – well not fundamental – we are there in this entire business say for one brand.
We continue to believe that the plan we’re following for that brand will produce profitability not in ‘12 but in ‘13 since we will be exiting ‘12 on a run rate basis.
And if as we work through the plan and events unfold we ever reach the conclusion that our plan is not going to come to fruition then we’ll take appropriate action James.
But right now we are continuing to work the plan and our view is that the Boat segment will post an operating loss in ‘12 but we ought to be running at a breakeven basis so that as we go into ‘13 we should plan on ‘13 at worst being breakeven.
That’s very helpful.
And just one last question and then I’ll hop back in the queue.
Sealine for the year – now that you’ve gotten rid of that – how much of a net benefit on operating income do we get just by not including Sealine? $5 million.
$5 million.
Great.
Thanks guys.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thanks and good morning everybody and congrats on a great year.
Well none of the people in this room had much to do with it.
All of the folks are out in the field brought this one in but thank you.
So I don’t want to steal too much of your thunder from Miami but I was hoping if maybe – you can maybe talk in a little bit more specifics about your investment spending plans.
And I’m interested in learning how you’re allocating those dollars across your different businesses and how you’re thinking about the incremental returns on that spending? And I would like to wait till we get to Miami to jump into that in detail.
But you will see in Miami that we are increasing investment in all of our businesses.
And I think we – we’ll be prepared to talk about generally how we’re going up capital expenditures expenditures in R&amp;D and we can work it in business.
Peter do you want to provide some more color to Ed? Well as Dusty said we’ll provide much more color in Miami – but as you might expect Ed the growth investments have a international tilt to them.
We’ve already announced the Brazilian boat plant facility which is underway – which incidentally will be a source of growth in our Boat business even if the U.S.
market does not improve in 2012.
We will be focusing more on diesel initiatives in the wake of our switching our joint venture and you’ll see in our other Life Fitness and Boat and Bowling business segments you’ll see some new product enhancements that we believe will drive growth.
Great thanks.
And then my other question you’ve got some comparability issues that affect your top line in 2012 between currency the divestiture and then some inventory comparison issues.
But by my math a single-digit top line is really more like the high single-digits when you adjust for those factors which a flat market would imply quite a bit of market share gain.
I was just hoping you can maybe kind of rank-order where you see those gains coming from and across your different businesses? We expect to have growth in all of our businesses and you’re right that our sales growth as adjusted will look better than just on the face of the comparisons.
And again I think in Miami we will be able to provide more detail on exactly where the growth is coming from but it’s not as a result of any particular large impact on growth in any particular segment of the business.
It occurs in Mercury with new products that they have brought out.
It occurs in the Boat group with international expansions and with market share gains.
It occurs at Life Fitness with new product introductions and market share gains and we are putting more capital against our retail bowling centers now to refresh and modernize some of them and we see some gains there.
So it really is across the board.
And Ed as we look – just to supplement what Peter said – when we are guiding to mid-single digits we see across all of our business units a remarkable uniformity and what we believe will be their top line growth rates in ‘12.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Let me continue on with that.
Dusty or Peter whoever wants to take this if you could maybe spend a little bit more time on the – and a little bit more depth on the diesel opportunity – and in sort of a segment of the changes with Cummins and how that relationship was changed and then how that compares to Volkswagen – Granite Volkswagens and the smaller diesel engines.
But where do you see the opportunity there? And then you talked about also now that you have a very good saltwater product and now that you’re through the financial crisis and debt triage mode – to take outboards and looking at those and international markets against a large Japanese competitor where you haven’t competed before so just maybe a little more color on those two items? With diesel first we with our joint venture partner made the decision that we ought to dissolve the venture for a couple of reasons.
First we had – maybe three reasons Tim – we’ve established the venture at a time when we were going to be and we were extremely successful going in with a great diesel engine provided by our joint venture partner great drive systems established by us and then using our combined distribution network going into the market.
We made a whole lot of money there.
The market obviously declined fairly significantly on a global basis.
And the game changed if you will more technology needed to come into that market.
And what we found is that we were each carrying within our respective organizations a level of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A to support the venture and the venture was carrying a level of R&amp;D and SG&amp;A.
And we had a level of expense that our view wasn’t sustainable and our judgment was we could continue to serve the market very well from our venture partner and from ourselves – and with a lot less cost and a lot more service capability.
Where we are now is our partner will continue to supply larger I’ll call mid-range to high-range large size diesel engines to the marine market.
We will provide commensurate with that drive systems and joystick docking systems to the market and they can easily be married.
And then in addition we’ve now become the exclusive distributor of the Volkswagen High-Speed diesel engines which are going to be in the range of 300 horsepower or under which in our view as the marine market recovers there will be more and more focus first outside of the U.S.
– but in my view eventually in the U.S.
– for these very powerful great diesel engines that Volkswagen makes.
If anybody on the call has driven any of the cars in which these TDI engines diesel TDI engines are placed unbelievable performance.
It’s just outstanding.
So it puts us into a great segment of the market with another great partner i.e.
Volkswagen.
So we our joint venture partner and Volkswagen are now happy in my view as to how we’re going to be able to go attack the market.
As we look at the outboard market it’s our view that we – and I’m going to put quotes around this because this is the way we really need to start thinking about this is “We’re entitled to the share outside the U.S.
that we have inside the U.S.
but we got to go get it.” And our share inside the U.S.
is higher than any of our other competitors.
And outside the U.S.
first we’ve been hampered a bit by the fact that one of our large competitors has a very complete – we – I call it dirty two-stroke you know high-emission two-stroke engines – that are wonderful engines and have served the market very well over time.
But as the world begins to move toward four-stroke product and the environmental requirements that those products permit everyone to comply with as well as the great performance and ease-of-use of four-stroke product we now have in our view a great product offering we’ve now put the organization in place all around the world to go attack these markets.
And we’ve begun to understand that we can do much better in commercial markets than perhaps we have in the past.
We are going to continue to invest in new outboard product.
Our new 150 product is the foundation for an entire engine line and an entire new set of engine platforms and we’re putting the money in.
The engines will continue to roll out and we’re very confident that there’s a lot of upside for us in the outboard market outside the U.S.
Is that helpful Tim? That is definitely.
And then also I want to say thank you for the broad color on ‘12 and then the ‘12 to ‘14 framework.
That was helpful also.
Yeah thank Bruce for that.
He’s piecing-up that we – how we’ve got to start talking to people so.
One other – just to revisit more on the immediate term I guess ‘12 and then maybe after that ‘14.
You’d talked about previously that ‘12 and maybe for a year or two beyond that that roughly you’d see a 30% incremental operating margin – an operating profit slowdown rate from incremental revenue.
I just wanted to revisit that and any additional color you’d have around that? Tim it’s Peter.
I would hasten to add at this point that our 30% number is always been characterized as our variable contribution margin.
And of course we’ve done better than 30% over the past couple years because we have been significantly reducing fixed cost which has increased our 30% variable contribution run rate two percentages above that.
We expect to maintain – certainly in this year 2012 – and see no reason why we cannot in the out- years our 30% variable contribution margin.
But as you can see from Dusty’s comments on SG&amp;A and R&amp;D we will in the pursuit of our growth initiatives be adding dollars to those accounts and so we will actually have fixed cost increase in 2012 and that in turn will lead to – if you just run the math – it will lead to an operating leverage of less than 30%.
But the fundamental variable contribution margin stays the same and then the operating leverage is going to be a function of whether we are in growth mode which we certainly are in 2012 or whether we were in a cost reduction mode which we were appropriately in in years ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 and ‘11.
Okay.
So you’re saying in general ‘12 could be a tad less than that 30% and then due to the incremental investments and then beyond that we will see the 30% is still very reasonable – just to clarify Peter? What I’m saying for ‘12 is and if you take restructuring out of it just try to look at on an ex-items basis – if you run the math where we provide the data points Dusty provided the data points I think you’re going to find that the number of – within our range dimensions will be lower than 30%.
With respect to years ‘13 and ‘14 we would expect to be slowly but surely improving on that number but it is very much a function of the growth opportunities we see in those years and the amount of money we put on those growth opportunities.
But after we take all of that into account and as we will be more specific in Miami we believe that we will see the bottom line growth in the dimensions that Dusty articulated in his comments.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker of B.
Riley &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
No problem.
Just – before I get into my question one clarification point on the guidance.
The GAAP guidance at $1.20 to $1.50 in earnings but I believe – that looking at the slides that Peter was discussing – that includes what roughly $0.10 in restructuring charges and $0.10 to $0.15 a share in debt repurchase charges? So is it – is my math correct that your kind of adjusted 2012 EPS guidance is $1.40 to $1.75? Yeah.
That’s right (inaudible).
Yeah.
We’re trying very hard to quote GAAP numbers.
Okay.
Okay fair enough.
I just wanted to make sure I had that right.
So if we could just spend a moment on the Fitness business growing pretty rapidly here in 2011 but I guess – and more importantly generating around $100 million in EBITDA for you which I believe is roughly $30 million higher than its prior peak in 2007.
Hopefully you could give some color on maybe what’s driving the strong incremental profitability in that business and maybe what kind of visibility you have into continuing its momentum here in 2012 ex the kind of Q1 comparable issue that you mentioned? First the overall answer I can say is – is that business unit is operating incredibly well right now.
I think it first starts with – we’ve become globally by far the most significant player with the best product and it’s permitted us to maintain margins very well in the marketplace.
Secondly as we’ve introduced new product we have begun to have this great ability to tier our product offering to clubs and we make great money in the entire tiering but it also permits us to serve various price requirements for club owners.
Thirdly we have begun to see commercial clubs need to replenish – up their capital expenditures if you will because most of the time the product they have on the floor represents their capital expenditures.
And there’s been a need to update what’s on the club floor and we’re there with the best product.
And then lastly I think in fairness some of our competitors have gone through some difficulty and our team has done a great job of taking advantage of that and making sure that we secure a good place in all global markets.
I think as we look forward we’re quite excited about Life Fitness.
We of course know the investment we’re making in new product.
We have a good view about what the new product we’ll be able to do.
It’s interaction with an exerciser who’s using the product.
And our view is that we’re going to be able to continue to grow with fabulous product with good margins.
It may be difficult when one begins to get the share we’ve gotten to hold onto the margins we have because sometimes people need to attack the share with pricing.
And our expectation is in the coming months and years there will be some pricing pressures.
So it may be hard to maintain operating margin of 15% but they’re not going to deteriorate a whole lot but we should expect those margins are going to be difficult to hold onto.
Okay.
And then I also wanted to drill-down a little bit on your P&amp;A business.
I guess on an annual basis could – for the P&amp;A segment could you provide maybe what that was as a percent of Mercury sales or even just its year-over-year growth rate would be helpful.
And I’d also be interested in kind of understanding if P&amp;A I know some of your P&amp;A is on new boats and engines maybe you could provide some color on P&amp;A content levels on an outboard boat versus sterndrive? Well first in 2011 P&amp;A represented about 40% of Mercury segment sales.
That’s – and that is a little higher than we would have been in say 2005 2006 when new engine sales were running higher Jimmy.
Then in terms of whether it’s D&amp;A on new products or P&amp;A on existing product there’s much more of this business that services existing product rather than new product.
And in fact – if you just step back and if we could all reflect on this a moment – in the new product it’s generally served by warranty and we go out and take care of that many times without recording sales or income from honoring our warranties.
So the P&amp;A product is – the P&amp;A revenue stream and earnings stream is very much a reflection of what already you have in the marketplace over time.
And therefore it always remains very important to us that Mercury and every product segment continue to grow share versus – because when we’re profitable selling the base product – but it also always provide then a much better and stronger annuity for the P&amp;A stream.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And lastly I apologize if you kind of went over this a little already but you’d spoke about exiting 2012 on a breakeven run rate in the Boat group and just wanted to get a little bit more specifics as to what exact steps you need to take to get there and if that maybe requires some additional strategic refinement of your portfolio? Well again we believe we can get there with the existing portfolio.
Again as I’ve said we have one brand in one product segment within the Boat segment that’s not there yet and that’s causing the entire segment to look as if it’s not – well first it’s not profitable and that is – that particular brand we have a very clear plan as to what we have to get done and it involves product distribution cost several pieces.
The guys in that brand are working hard in executing against the plan and if – we’ll either get there with that brand or if we’re not going to get there then we’ll need to make strategic adjustments.
And that’s about the best I can tell without – tell you Jimmy without going beyond what I think we ought to be doing competitively.
All right.
Thanks very much for the time and look forward to Miami.
You’re welcome.
Okay great.
Look forward to seeing you there.
Our next question comes from the line of Rommel Dionisio of Wedbush.
Please proceed.
Yeah good afternoon.
Dusty in your preferred comments you talked about tightening credit in Europe.
But I just wondered if you could sort of walk us through the dealer health you’re seeing there in some of the weaker markets.
Is there a – impact obviously on floor plan financing and are you seeing any dealer attrition in markets like Italy and some of the more challenging markets there? First great question.
Dealer inventory is good in Europe.
The dealers there along with our teams have done a good job of insuring debt.
We’ve not let – as sales have declined in view of the economic conditions there – let our dealer network get clogged up that’s number one.
There is less issue at financing at the wholesale level and more of an issue at financing at the retail level in Europe.
And generally our dealers are not having problems stocking product in Europe.
And our – it’s Peter – our floor plan financing outstandings internationally which would basically be predominantly Europe is at essentially the same level since they were at the end of the previous year and that means that we’re not getting a buildup of product there nor are we getting a buildup of repurchase liabilities here.
Okay.
Great.
That’s helpful.
Thanks very much and congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Just to make a comment about the industry globally it’s our judgment that both ourselves and our dealer network globally have become much much more focused on maintaining very good inventory levels having an inventory of what’s needed to service known and reasonably expected demand and none of us are very pie-in-the-sky about what’s going to be coming at us and we’re all managing this very much better.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison of Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
You’ve addressed most of my questions but I’ll ask if you would just characterize the trends you’re seeing in the used boat market both in terms of volume at the dealer level and what you’re seeing in terms of price on those used boats.
A very good question.
The consistent theme we hear throughout our dealer network is there is not enough good used product available to satisfy demand and that’s – it feels very common sense correct in the following way.
The dealer network in general has gotten its inventories down to very healthy levels.
The age of product in the field is increasing.
We’ve documented that and I think over the last decade the age of prior boats in the market has moved from an average of 15 years to about 21 years.
So during this downturn people are holding onto their product longer and have not made the decision yet to go replace with new.
As a result the trade-ins the movement that always occurs with higher new boat sales is just not occurring.
And dealers tell us if they can find a good used boat – they in some cases have a waiting list for it and – but selling prices for that have not continued to increase and in fact our judgment is that the relationship between new and used pricing is back to pre-2008 historical norms.
That’s helpful.
Thank you so much.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka of Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Thanks guys.
Just one quick question.
Could you give your retail sales number or how much retail is up in the fourth quarter and then for the full-year 2011 for Brunswick not for the industry? Let me – can I take a look at the slide here really quick.
I – memory says we had that – yeah.
If you’ve got it up it’s our slide 19 Joe.
Okay.
I think I’m doing something wrong because I can’t get the slides to move.
Oh are you kidding me? I’m sorry.
He did all these work Joe to make this easy for you.
I’m moving it Joe.
Joe it’s...
I’ve got it up there now.
...Here’s what we had on the slide.
Okay.
Q4 retail was up 21% and full-year retail was up 9%.
21% and 9%? Yes sir.
Great.
Sorry I missed that.
That’s okay.
That’s all I needed.
That’s okay.
It broke my heart we did all this work but...
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
At this time we would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Thank you.
As always thanks for everyone’s participation.
Thanks for the great questions that we get.
It always indicates a real understanding of us and our industry by the people who follow us.
We are pleased with ‘11.
We’ve got a good plan for ‘12.
We’ve got our sleeves rolled up.
We’ve said internally we can’t take what we did in ‘11 and expect us – ourselves to drift into ‘12 and achieve the results within a range that we’re giving you.
So we know we’ve got a lot of work to do and our sleeves are rolled up and we’re at it.
I hope everybody come to see us in Miami or at least join the webcast.
We’re looking forward to talking about what our – we think our company can do in ‘12 and beyond.
So thanks very much and we look forward seeing you in Miami.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation 2012 first quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings in today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
As you are aware by now we have issued our Q1 results today by way of an advisory release.
The full tax financial results are available on website.
We plan on using this method all of our future earnings releases.
I would also like to point out that on April 19 we filed our Form 8-K to reflect the change to our segment reporting.
These changes do not revise or restate the information previously reported in our consolidated financial statements.
Please see the 8-K for the detail supporting this revision.
Now I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thank you Bruce and good morning everyone.
I'll start with the few overview remarks regarding our first quarter results a quarter which represented our ninth consecutive of year-over-year earnings per share growth.
This was a good quarter from many perspectives.
Our first quarter increase in earnings per share demonstrates the continuing success of our business strategy.
Short-term financial performance continues to improve even as we make increased investments for long-term organic growth.
As anticipated consolidated sales were modestly lower due to specific factors affecting our Marine Engine and Life Fitness segment on which I will elaborate shortly.
Our gross margin of 24.2% represents an increase of 20 basis points from the prior year.
Low depreciation and pension expenses combined with the successful cost reduction activities contributed to the higher gross margin.
During the quarter SG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate increased by 3% which is inclusive of company-wide investments in growth initiatives many of which we highlighted in our Investor Meeting in Miami earlier this year.
As well as the absence are beginning from a sale of properties and insurance settlements recognized in Q1 2011 partially offset by lower variable compensation.
Preliminary U.S.
retail boat demand was up in the quarter with strong improvements continuing in aluminum and fiberglass outboard product categories.
And lower net interest expense and a reduced income tax provision contributed to higher net earnings during the quarter.
Sales decreased by 1% in the first quarter.
Three of our four segments reported modest growth in the period which was more than offset by a 2% decline in the engine segment.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $68 billion for the quarter a decline of $5 million as compared to 2011.
Operating margins ex-charges decreased by about 30 basis points to 7%.
Factors causing the decline in operating earnings largely occurred in Engine Segment which I will describe in more detail in a few minute.
Net earnings for the quarter were $0.43 per share including $0.02 charge from special tax items.
Excluding these item our diluted earnings per share would have been $0.45 per share.
This compares to a net earnings of $0.30 per share in the prior year which included $0.05 of restructuring charges and a $0.05 loss on debt impairments.
Again excluding these items 2011 earnings per share would have been $0.40.
In summary our adjusted EPS increased by $0.05.
Now let's turn to our operating segments and we'll start with the Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective sales to U.S.
markets were flat while sales to Mercury non-U.S.
customers decreased by 7% in the quarter.
In aggregate the segment sales declined 2% a quarter.
U.S.
sales continue to experience growth from our outboard and parts and accessories businesses.
They were offset by decline in sterndrive engine.
Non-U.S.
revenues were affected by varying market conditions around the world.
Growth across Asia continued to be healthy especially in China.
On the other end of the spectrum Australia continued to be weak even during the height of the retail selling season.
In Europe business conditions were off versus the prior year with variations across the continent.
There was a growth in Russia stability in Central Europe that would be Germany France and the Netherlands and weakness in much of the Nordic region as well as Italy and other Southern European markets.
On certain economic conditions are having an impact on overall demand in this region.
From a product category perspective sales in our U.S.
outboard engine business continued to deliver solid growth reflecting an improving aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat marketplace in addition to the market share gains.
Outboard engine production in Mercury in the quarter was higher than year-ago levels.
Mercury recently launched his new 150 FourStroke engine.
This innovative products brings many different engine attributes to the market including durability fuel efficiency and numerous other performance differentiate this.
This product has been well received for both freshwater and saltwater applications.
Sales decreased in Mercury sterndrive engine business compared to year ago levels due to product ramp up issues and overall weaker global market demand.
These factors are partially offset by market share gain versus the first quarter of 2011.
Regarding our Mercury's production ramp up Mercury's recovery plan is firmly in place and production is meeting recovery plan daily production target.
Mercury's global parts and accessories business which accounts for about 40% of the segment's annual sales reported an increases in revenue with solid gains in U.S.
market partially offset by modest declines in non-U.S.
markets primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions in Europe.
Mercury's operating earnings was at SpellBox approximately $10 million which included the affect of one-time gains totaling $11 million in the first quarter of last year.
These gains related to our facility sale and insurance settlements.
Excluding the impacts of these gains in 2011 and lower restructuring charges the segments result decreased modestly.
The quarter benefited from strong performance as a domestic outboard business reflecting the strong market for outboard boats in the new 150 horsepower engine.
However this performance is more than offset as a sales and margin impact of the sterndrive production ramp up issue.
Weak European results in growth spend.
After taking account of all these factors margins excluding charges continue to be a healthy 10%.
In our Boat segment Q1 revenues were up 1% compared to the prior period.
If we exclude the impact of the divested U.K.-based Sealine brand which was sold in the third quarter of 2011 revenues increased by 5% for the quarter.
We recorded solid growth in wholesale shipments in the quarter reflecting the requirements of our dealer.
On the international front adjusting for the Sealine divestiture our both segment sales outside the U.S.
increased by about 3% for the quarter compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Canada our largest non-U.S.
boat market showed strong sales growth.
European marine markets which experienced double-digit declines in sales were under pressure due to consumer concerns about macroeconomic condition.
As a result we're continuing to plan for a decline in European industry sales in 2012 which we believe can be offset with share gain.
As you can see from the U.S.
powerboat industry demand statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Incorporated the U.S.
retail market for 2011 unfolded generally as we'd expected with the preliminary estimates for the full year at approximately 139 500 units.
This estimate reflects an increase of one-half of a percent compared to 2010.
Although this increase is less than 1% it does represent the first annual increase since 2004.
Based on preliminary first quarter data aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat markets continue to demonstrate growth while the fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat market was flat during the quarter which represents an improvement compared to last year's decline.
While we're pleased with the first quarter U.S.
retail market results our view is that the level of growth in the first quarter is likely not sustainable over the year.
If we look at preliminary results for March the largest volume month of the quarter the market improved 7.6% versus March of 2011.
As we break down March retail volumes outboard products improved nicely.
The sterndrive inboard fiberglass product volumes declined at high single-digit rate.
At this early stage of the season the status of 2012 retail volumes in the fiberglass sterndrive inboard category remains unclear to us.
We pay very close attention to this boat category since it constitutes about 50% of our boat segment sales dollars.
During the quarter Brunswick U.S.
retail boat sales growth was greater than that of the overall market reflecting market share gains in specific market segments.
As we stated in our fourth quarter conference call we increased our pipeline by approximately 2 000 units at the end of 2011 to establish stocking levels that are appropriate for current market conditions.
Therefore our quarter-end pipeline is up 11% versus the first quarter of 2011.
The quarter ended with 39.5 weeks of product on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis.
And this is comparable to the weeks on hand at the end of first quarter in 2011.
Our pipelines for aluminum product and fiberglass boats under 24 feet are up over last year’s level while our pipeline for fiberglass product 24 feet and larger is down and that continues to be at record low levels.
The Boat segment sales growth and lower restructuring charges led to the segment reporting its first profitable first quarter since 2007.
Getting over this important hurdle in the quarter is a great tribute to the progress Andy Graves and his entire team are achieving throughout the Boat segment.
Now let's take a look at our two recreational segments.
Life Fitness completed another excellent quarter.
Sales were up slightly compared to last year’s first quarter despite having a difficult comparison from last year's record setting quarter of growth.
If we were to exclude the impact of last year's large order from one of its customer categories sales for Life Fitness would have increased about 10%.
International revenues on the same basis were up in the quarter by 2% while U.S.
sales increased by 17%.
Life Fitness' solid revenue growth over the last two years supports our longer-term outlook for this segment.
Chris Clawson and his team have done an outstanding job of executing their strategic plan which has allowed Life Fitness to outpace its competitors and gain market share.
When we combine the organization's outstanding performance with a healthy fitness sector and positive demographic and health trends Life Fitness is well positioned to continue to deliver excellent results.
The introduction of new products combined with the successful existing product line has positioned Life Fitness for continued leadership in the commercial fitness equipment sector.
In 2011 Life Fitness introduced 25 new products.
The four panels on this slide represent just a few of the Life Fitness' new product introductions for 2012.
Starting in the upper left is the LifeCycle GX.
Group cycling is one of the popular fitness activities today.
And with this cutting edge design and features the GX is the latest from the company that invented the extra cycle.
Next in clockwise order is Lifescape a first in the series of technical innovations that we will be rolling out to enhance the cardio experience.
It features interactive high-definition hikes runs and bikes to famous locations around the world with integrated machine controls that adjust video speed to that of the exerciser and resistance to match the terrain.
The Activate Series is the new streamlined connection of cardio equipment featuring a variety of efficient and effective workouts for a user.
And finally the Synrgy360 combines several popular total body dynamic exercises into a system that helps personal trainers to more effectively train individuals and groups by giving users unlimited ways to exercise.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew modestly while operating margins remain strong at 15.1%.
These are strong results given a difficult comparison to 2011 when sales grew by 31%.
Sales in Bowling &amp; Billiards were up 3% in the quarter.
Our Bowling products business experienced solid growth while same-store retail bowling revenues were down slightly versus the prior year.
The segment's operating earnings up slightly due to higher sales.
Now I'm going to turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financials.
And then I'll come back to give you an update on our perspective on 2012 and beyond.
Thanks very much Dusty.
I'd like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our first quarter P&amp;L and will also comment on certain forward-looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring exit and impairment charges which were approximately $200 000 in the quarter.
The net charge reflects continued manufacturing consolidation activities in our Marine Engine segment partially offset by $1.5 million of gains primarily resulting from the sale of properties in the Boat segment.
Our current estimate for the full year 2012 restructuring charges is now in the $5 million to $10 million range or $0.05 to $0.10 per share for previously announced actions.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was $17.1 million in the quarter a decrease of about $10 million versus the same period in 2011.
Lower losses on early extinguishment of debt combined with lower debt balances contributed to the reduced net interest expense in the quarter.
We did not make any debt repurchases in Q1 but are resuming activity in the next three quarters.
During the month of April we repurchased approximately $10.5 million of debt.
And for 2012 our plan continues to include debt reduction in the range of $75 million to $100 million.
Our estimated net interest expense for the year is approximately $76 million to $80 million.
This would result in a reduction in net interest of $18 million to $22 million compared to 2011.
During the first quarter our debt outstanding increased slightly.
It remains our objective to regain our investment-grade status as we continue to lower debt levels and increase EBITDA.
In fact both S&amp;P and Moody's raised our credit ratings earlier this month.
Now during the quarter foreign currency had a small negative effect on sales and a modest positive impact on operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This includes the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect that currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-over-year earnings comparisons.
For the full year 2012 we are planning for currency to have a modestly unfavorable impact on sales primarily due to a weaker euro versus the dollar.
We're currently forecasting only a slight decline in operating margin percentage due to currency primarily resulting from a stronger yen versus a dollar and the euro.
Our planning incorporates again an euro exchange rates that are slightly unfavorable versus the current market rates.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was approximately 21% compared to a rate of 32% in the first quarter of 2011.
The reduced tax rate reflects our expectation that a higher percentage of our 2012 pre-tax earnings will be derived from domestic sources which will not require a corresponding tax provision due to specific GAAP requirements.
Our 2012 tax expense will continue to be comprised primarily of foreign and state income taxes.
And given our current earnings guidance range our expect our overall 2012 effective tax rate to be approximately 21%.
Now let's turn to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash used for operations in Q1 was $70 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of $24 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2012 is approximately $95 million.
Pension expense resulting from our defined benefit pension plans totaled $6 million in the quarter compared to $8 million in the prior year.
In the quarter the company made minimal cash contributions to its plans.
The inflow on the cash flow statement therefore primarily reflects the amount of the pension expense.
We expect our 2012 pension expense to be approximately $25 million which is a decrease of $7 million from 2011.
This includes the benefit of higher asset levels planned contributions and lower interest costs associated with plan liabilities.
In 2012 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the range of $75 million to $85 million.
Changes in our primarily working capital accounts excluding the impact of divestitures resulted in a use of cash in the quarter and totaled approximately $151 million.
This change is largely due to the seasonal requirements of marine customers.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by $106 million.
Inventories increased by $26 million.
Accrued expenses decreased by $81 million.
And accounts payable increased by $59 million.
Given the seasonality of our sales in the marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital over the balance of the year.
We currently believe that changes in working capital should result in a modest use of cash for the year based on our current revenue assumptions.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were approximately $18 million while 2012 plan includes approximately $120 million in capital expenditures.
The increase from 2012 primarily reflects the amounts required to fund our growth initiatives.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures in 2012 were $9 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our Marine segments.
So in summary during the quarter we reported $78 million free cash flow usage which accounted for almost the entire reduction in cash during the quarter.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $270 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of almost $700 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dusty now for some concluding comments.
Thanks Peter.
As we stated in our press release on the basis of our solid performance in the first quarter and early season improvements in the retail marine marketplace we're increasing our 2012 earning guidance to a range of $1.30 to $1.50 per diluted share.
And although we've raised the lower end of our guidance range our outlook for 2012 remains generally consistent with the plans described during our investor event in Miami earlier this year.
We're continuing to target mid-single digit revenue growth in 2012 along with a strong increase in operating earnings.
Our planning for the year reflects a stable to improving U.S.
marine market and a declining European market.
As a result of continued cost reductions and improvement in operating efficiencies our target gross margin for 2012 remains at approximately 24%.
2012 capital expenditures SG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses will be higher than in 2011 as we fund growth initiatives.
And as Peter has commented 2012 net income will further benefit from more restructuring cost and reductions in interest depreciation and pension expenses.
Our second quarter will have some unfavorable comparisons to the prior year similar to those that affected our first quarter results.
Specifically these are the absence of Sealine revenues which approximated $20 million in the second quarter of 2011.
As we noted in the Slide 16 of the deck we've been discussing this morning the non-recurrence of the large order from one of Life Fitness' customer categories which mainly affected first quarter comparisons is anticipated to have a modest impact on the second quarter of 2012 as well.
And although Mercury's action plan to ramp up sterndrive production is making excellent progress the Engine segment's revenue growth in operating margin will continue to be negatively affected into the second quarter by these issues.
Lastly we believe European growth rates in our Marine segment will not be comparable with those anticipated outside of Europe due to continuing macroeconomic factors.
So we expect that the double-digit declines experienced in Europe in the first quarter will continue at least through the second quarter.
Our expectations however for the second half of the year are for significant sales and earnings increases as growth initiatives contribute.
Mercury achieves full plant efficiencies Life Fitness has more normalized comparison and as our Boat segment benefits from a more stable marine marketplace which will enable it to produce and sell more products than in the second half of last year.
And with these comments as background we'll now turn the call back to our operator to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please standby for your first question which comes from the line James Hardiman Longbow Research.
I guess my first question is just on the outlook.
Obviously you saw some pretty strong growth for the industry.
Is it safe to say that that was better than what you were expecting? But then ultimately the European declines were maybe worse and that's why you're essentially where you were three months ago.
The assumption is that the U.S.
couldn't continue to sustain the pace that we saw in the first quarter.
Is that the bigger reason why you haven't gotten a little bit more optimistic on the industry outlook? And ultimately can you just talk maybe a little bit about why you think that deceleration is going to take place? The sterndrive inboard fiberglass market is behaving generally in the first quarter like we thought it would.
The outboard product categories which are both aluminum and outboard fiberglass we anticipate will be up and they're actually up a little stronger than we anticipated.
And our businesses are performing a little better there than we even thought with this increase in marketing and share gains.
So when you look at the uptick in boats we feel like the market is way up but that's because the lower-margin product is where the up is.
And then we have to a little later into that look at Europe and our judgment is that Europe at least here in the selling season is likely to remain a pretty difficult marketplace.
So we're ending up when you shake all that up for our marine business on a global basis to say it's flat to up slightly.
I would put it in the 0% to 5% range.
It could change as we go into the quarter into the real selling season but where we sit right now that's how we feel the whole marketplace looked.
And as far we raise the lower anchors within we've got not lots of nice protection.
On the bottom stack we're not prepared to say that the market is going to give us a bigger uplift as it expands.
And just so on clear on the market share side of things I thought you said that generally you are performing better than that call it 15 % growth for the industry was that the case overall at retail or was that just sort of segment by segment but you may have to said a view up a little bit less in the industry can you just sort of clarify where you guys were versus the industry? At retail we are up more than reported 16% for the industry not in every segment.
We've got some placements in some brands well they maybe not be down a little bit but overall we're up quite nicely at retail versus the 16% as the stats reporting in the first quarter.
And can you talk about just how you've been able to do that it's been a pretty well established bare case as you pointed out 50% of your business comes from the part of the market that from an issue standpoint it doesn't seem to be growing.
So your ability to beat the industry is even impressive when you take into account the mix shift.
Can you talk about your ability to gain share despite the negative mix shift.
Well first even with a negative mix shift we may be doing just fine in the segment its going down James from a share perspective.
But I think there are three things that are really helping our boat business and I want to stress we're gaining really nice share in our engine business also especially in the outboard category because we have a lot of shares and the turn around business we've already gain a lot more of share there.
First as we look at the boat side we invest a lot of money in 2009 in our dealer-network.
We've continue to work hard to keep our dealers healthy.
We believe our dealer network is healthier and better situated in 2012 than it was before we began this recession.
And I bet this can't give up true dose to the dealer network if its start there.
And I think secondly as we've gotten out of brands that we believe because of a lower market it's just more going to position us for a lot of reasons to be successful.
Our boat business have gotten very good at choosing the right products to take to the marketplace and while we have acute fewer products or models than we did prior to the recession and we've gotten a lot better at bringing the sort of model to the marketplace that actually sell and work well.
And then thirdly I think our communication with the dealers because of they are better and we are better is permitting us to be a lot more flexible with the dealer network.
I suspect many would say we're still not flexible enough but we're doing as best as we can north of production capabilities that we have.
And I think that partnering with the dealer network and really trying to help them hit their local retail market with the appropriate product it would be the (inaudible).
And then just last question here it's an unanswerable question you talk a little bit about how your thinking impacted your business I guess particularly at retail is that ultimately the reason why versus the 16% for the quarter you're still thinking from an industry perspective maybe near to 5% just because there was demand pulled forward how should I think about that? The first quarter is generally less than 20% of the sales per year.
I think there were some pretty good weather et cetera and as we focus in on March it's showing which is the biggest month of course just showing a growth a great increase in the overall market and if an increase in the market we like and are comfortable with and think it will continue to improve as time wears on.
But again we go back to the real increase the significant increase is occurring on outboard product which are lower dollars and therefore our sales growth is it governed a little bit by those lower dollars rather than the higher dollars sterndrive inboard products.
The next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron RBC Capital Markets.
I want to maybe just circle back on your full year industry outlook so at the start of the year you kind of talked about a flat planning assumption now I guess the range is maybe flat to up 5% just a sort of for clarification purposes the industries at the upper end of that range would that imply upside to the guidance that you've laid out in terms of what your earnings are going to be? Yes and no Ed.
There is one other factor that I want you to keep in mind here we've got a lot of new product coming to the marketplace and that's a part of our growth initiative.
And a lot will be what we want the pipeline to be at the any particular time in time and whether how much room we're leaving in the pipeline for all the new product we have coming.
Yes one would say if it goes to 5% or even above there are to be some upside in our numbers and we're just going to have to wait and see how it slides out.
And then talk to our dealers about the new product streams that's coming and then put it into the pipeline on wholesale basis which of course will governed our sales and earnings but we think it is right considering all the circumstances.
Can you maybe also just address your ability to fully meet demand the product in the first quarter? The pipeline inventories look fine but the feedback from some dealers seem to be have in that or maybe they weren't getting certain boats fast enough to their liking so just was hoping you could maybe kind of comment on just how you managed the pipeline inventories through what seemed to be a pretty strong first quarter at retail? Firstly we try to anticipate in the outboard product in improving first quarter versus last year and that's why we talked about it at year end.
But we've increased the pipeline inventory by couple of thousands boats Ed.
We were trying to get at smaller product in the further market that we thought was going to move very well in place that the dealers would be sitting there ready for the marketplace.
And we've been running pretty much flat out in certain of businesses here in the first quarter that try to meet demand.
But we can never be in the perfect ground.
And I've said in answer to the last question well I generally believe we're working a lot better with the dealers and they would tell you we're getting new product much better to position them to compete in the marketplace.
But we're never perfect.
I suspect frankly and other issue that probably would affect not only our dealers but other dealers is the difficulty we've had in the ramp up of the sterndrive engine business and therefore getting sterndrives to builders as they need them in order to meet dealer demand.
We've put our customers through some pain.
We've put our own boat company in excruciating pain and we're working our way through that and we'll have to take the care of that in the second quarter.
But I have no doubt that there are places where there are folks who would like to have some sterndrive products.
They didn't get it when they wanted.
And just one quick clarification on that then I'll pass it along.
The sterndrive production issue it sounds like that kind of going to run through Q2 is that going to fully made up for in the back half for the year or to the extent that maybe end up short in the market on those products is that something that you half doesn't get made up for until 2013? I think the latter is more the case but I doubt that we can fully make it up.
The next question comes from Tim Conder Wells Fargo Securities.
Dusty just little more clarification on your broad expectations here heading into the year I mean I think you've said before that you plan for Europe to be down sort of unfolding that way.
And then for the U.S.
I guess the broader clarification is here entering the year you said you saw a little raw market flattish.
Was that overall market a global comment or U.S.
market comment.
That was the global comment Tim.
And so you're saying now globally you see the markets flat up 5% is what you're saying? Yes.
That would the case.
I want to keep expressing that European market is very difficult right now.
And what we've said in our prepared comments Tim was we think it's going to be worse than that as our plan advance.
So we're going to need the U.S.
markets to be fairly strong to permit to make all that up.
But again in general entering the year you were saying flat globally and now you're saying flat to up 5% with the European market being weaker than you anticipate and the U.S.
being stronger than anticipated moving collectively get them to flat to now flat to up 5%.
Correct.
The only other thing I will say is that we don't get people so excited.
That movement is going to be in our view right now primarily in outboard based product which is lower dollars and lower margins forth.
And again in the Engine segment you called out some specific the gains you had last year and clearly this year if you apples-to-apples that you had a higher mix of outboard and then the ongoing issues the ramp issues the cost you incur in there in sterndrive.
So again that's why potentially even though the higher outboard because of those two reasons you're not seeing the progress on the engine side is that correct? Yes but there are two things that are going on here maybe we just need to step back and think about the whole company here from moment Tim and some of this happened in the engine business.
The issue in the engine business was we had $11 million of non-recurring items last year.
That improved earnings.
And they weren't there this year and we had lower than we had anticipated sterndrive production.
And when we mix those up our engine business looks fundamentally on the earnings side flat down slightly not withstanding the stranded out difficult that they've had.
And it's speaks of volume then about how much we've increased our outboard production healthy and they performed in the U.S.
and as well on Europe.
And we had to offset with all of that significant declines in Europe.
So the engine business performed very well.
if we step back for the whole company and we've got the delay we look hard internally.
How are we really operates.
And we sprinkle this throughout our presentation this morning.
There are lots of things that have nothing to do with operations.
They came in and out of our earnings in the first quarter last year and the first quarter this year.
And it'll not shake all of that out and I'll let people talk to Bruce to get all the detail because I don't want to take up the call.
But our sales are up 1%.
Our EBIT was up 9% and our EPS was up nearly 16% from a pure operating standpoint it's within our control and have a running foot.
And it's a real tribute to our people with what's going in Europe and all the other issues we've dealt with that they've done good job from a pure operating standpoint.
And from pure operating standpoint our margins are up at the operating line even with increases in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D that we get plan in order to fuel growth.
So it's great results for our folks.
And Bruce can walk everybody through the details but its all here in our presentation.
You just have to step back and head it up.
On the outboard engine side the 150 that you've introduced has been very very good.
And I think that you've even alluded to that you're sold out on that product and are actually building some more tooling for that product.
Number one can you talk about how that is going and then number two the time table for looking at expanding that new version family whatever you're calling it here the 150 the current SKU and both the smaller engines and then larger engine to that new family.
The engine is so successful that we are on allocation which is a good problem and a bad problem and we do need to ramp up the knowing of additional tooling and getting in place and then we're likely several months away from doing that.
We have gone the investment process for significant investment in an entirely new horsepower range of product based on the 150 product and I'd like Tim not to be a lot more specific in that for competitive reason but we are pleased and very confident that we have a real winner as new platform that coming to the market in 150.
And that platform is going to continue to be very successful of both for cost and sale to keep us competitive for very long time.
And last question on the Engine is so you miss sales in the 150 and you've missed sales in the sterndrive here in the first quarter just because of the ramp issues on the sterndrive and just not have enough product on the 150.
I think that's right.
The next question comes from the line our Scott Hamann KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Can you discuss some of the trends you're seeing in the used boat markets and some of the volume and pricing? We continue to hear this from our dealer as light as even earlier this week.
Used boat pricing is increasing and the availability of high quality used boats continues to be pinning.
All of which from many of our dealer standpoint point towards better new boats sales of mix Scott.
And then just in terms of the Sealine operating profit contribution to Boat segment this quarter and what is it you expected for the year to benefit? That's something we've talked about.
It's fairly modest.
And is this still boat ramps within the portfolio that are operating at loss?  Yes.
Is it down to just one now?  Generally yes.
One category.
I tend to think I would add as categories of our business and I would say that our boat business in Europe is going to have tough time this year also Scott.
The next question comes from Gerrick Johnson BMO Capital Markets.
I was hoping you could describe a little bit more clearly what you mean by pipeline is that outstanding on filled orders? That is boat sitting in dealership Gerrick.
Next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker B.
Riley &amp; Co.
First your comment Europe I would think weaker than anticipated market there could bring you at Mercury and separately in your Fitness business I mean before the inclusion of international brands from Mercury to the boat group Europe was just 6% of the boat group sale.
And now maybe that's 11% or so.
So it's just being slight if even their market was down dramatically the impact to the boat group would not be that severe.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking about that.
Generally correct yes.
That the real issue as we Europe unfolding for the remainder of the year it's going to be in our interest.
In the first quarter sales in Europe across all of our businesses were down in the range of $20 million that would have been $4 million to $5 million down drafting earning and as we see the year unfolding that's going to continue to be an issue.
And then staying at the engine business maybe you can speak to market share trend there during Q1 I'm not sure if you're commentary on your slide speak on wholesale or retail but from what I'm seeing it looks like you may have lost some share there in sterndrives domestically maybe even outboards.
But it also seems to little surprising that your Marine elimination were up so significantly given the boat groups your modest growth and it's weighting towards sterndrives.
It would mean that externally you lost some shares at wholesale when you compare your results both wholesale outboard activity and the results from your sterndrive competitor that is interested in your comments there.
Do you feel like you can regain that share when your capacity ramps at Mercury or if maybe your Mercury customer or not necessarily underperforming but just under producing relative to the broader market in Q1.
First let's start outboards.
I'm confident with real data in our outboard business that we're gaining significant share in the U.S.
and gaining share on a much slower rate outside U.S.
On a quarter-to-quarter basis that is first quarter this year the first quarter last year we have seen some share gains and strong drive but I think the real world is we're probably experiencing some share decline first quarter versus fourth quarter or third quarter last year.
And like as Jimmy says there are inability to make all the engines that we need to find.
Are you speaking about share gains on a wholesale level or retail sales? The outboard business I'm doing is at both wholesale and retail.
For the sterndrive business the only retail that we have is through year end.
But we're doing a bit of extrapolation here as we try to determine sterndrive business at retail in the first quarter.
And that's why I said my believe is that we've lost share in the first quarter versus third quarter last year or fourth quarter last year.
But we don't yet have that  at retail.
On the Fitness side obviously performed a little better there than you expected here in the first quarter nice topline against a tough comp and margins one of your commercial competitors recently indicated their seems some broader industry softness here in April.
I mean have you observed that at all certainly your multi-year plan assumes more modest growth than in recent years.
There was pretty significant growth none the less but just be interested in your thoughts on that segment and Q2 in the balance of the year? We still feel very good about the segment.
Believe we're going to have nice top and bottom line growth.
Look our guys are out there in a war everyday for sales first against competitors and then what's happening economically for instance in Europe and U.K.
but we're doing very well and South America is doing very well and Asia it's a break level business.
And we're not loosing any slip over the fitness business and in fact I would say our folks in our fitness business are doing an absolutely outstanding job.
And we like the marketplace a lot.
The global number clubs continues to rise.
The number of clubs members continues to rise.
The club revenues continues to rise and in that kind of context they're all going to need more equipment.
Jimmy maybe our competitors are having difficulty because of us and we cannot underestimate in fitness the importance of the new product flow.
I happened to be out at ERSO which is the big U.S.
trade event.
We couldn't get into our booth because of all the new products.
Just a question now that you've talked international programs into the support group and then have broken out the pension and reported as a line item in the segments.
That disclosure is great but of course it's somewhat voids the multi-year targets you laid for us in Miami.
So can you update your target EBIT margins by segment at least in the Marine segments through '14? And on the dealer pipeline front I think you ended 2011 with 17 000 units in the pipeline.
How should we adjust that historical figure for the inclusion of those international brands? That's something that we're looking at now.
Perhaps the next time we are at a conference we can update that.
Remember these are three year numbers and we don't update three year illustration on a regular basis.
But suffice it to say that the shift will benefit Mercury and it will benefit the Bowling segment because those are the two segments that had the bulk of now frozen to find benefit costs associated with them.
And of course it will hurt the corporate number because it will now bear the financing cost and pension.
So that's a big thing that will happen.
Of course it will not change the bottomline.
We will update that as we work on our models and as we get to a public forum where we can get into that detail.
The next question comes from Craig Kennison Robert W.
Baird.
Dusty maybe I'll go after Board with you.
You sell a discretionary product here that certainly depends on wealth.
Have you guys given any thought to the implications of tax policy especially in 2013 when it may or may not change and how that could affect your business on how you run it? Yes we think about it a lot.
Here is where we are right now.
We believe the absence of a clear view on tax policy after the end of this year Craig is impacting boats and then the engines.
I'm picking a number here but let's say 30 feet and above because (inaudible) their income level knows intuitively and from what they hear that they're going to be part of how do we saw the deficit issue solution.
Our judgment however is that the tax policy is known and people will make adjustments and move forward.
But it's unknown that's probably causing more issue than what it's all going to be.
Another great example here that they were all seeing gasoline prices and there was a lot of nice saying that at $4 the bottom would top out.
I think it's fair to say the economy across the U.S.
hasn't been harmed by the increase in fuel prices that we've seen.
The consumer ultimately makes adjustments and then makes the decisions about what they want to do and what they want to participate in.
And we continue to believe then that's really important that we keep heavy with lots of new product coming to the marketplace so that our brands and all of our businesses are (inaudible).
The next question comes from Rommel Dionisio Wedbush Securities.
Dusty in your prepared comments you touched on investment spending later in the year and I wonder if you could just provide us a little more color on whether that's R&amp;D or marketing.
And in light of the slightly improving boat work at least on the lower end of the fiberglass outboard and aluminum is that going to change your marketing spend? In other words if you see the market improving are you going to be spending more money to support some of these new product launches you're coming out with? Well in our prepared remarks we did say we'll continue to invest in growth.
And that is R&amp;D as well as in capital and there is some marketing.
In tems of whether we're going to spend more likely not.
We're getting very nice market share gains in the specific categories you mentioned.
And I think we're very happy with where our brands are positioned and we're positioning those plans as against the competition.
After the divestiture of Sealine is your percentage of Boat division sales from Europe about 10% or is that before Sealine divestiture? That excludes Sealine.
The next question comes from Joe Hovorka Raymond James.
Could you give your retail sales increase in the quarter? I know you have been doing in the last several quarters.
If you want we can go into SSI with report of the industry and parse through where our brands are.
They're just short of 20% retail according to the SSI numbers.
I'm not saying that they're perfect.
In fact I would say they are not.
But if you want to get a perspective as to how we're doing versus the industry that's what that Q would tell you.
You're saying if you weight the segments by your weighting you're up 20%.
I was unclear of what you said there.
Yes.
And that's a good approximation of where you're at in the first quarter.
Well using SSI compared to the rest of the competition yes.
We're in different places and in our own internal reporting but I've always been using Joe the SSI number.
And you made a comment that sterndrive was as expected relative to three months ago.
I guess I was under the impression that sterndrive was expected to still be down in 2012 and the offset would be the two onboard segments getting you to a flat number.
Was I misreading that before? No you weren't.
When we're saying as expected focused on a little more on March than perhaps the entire quarter.
The entire quarter was flat.
But March was down high single digits.
It's down to flat right now.
And you also made a comment that the mix shift was going to be negative in '12.
Part of the explanation of we're looking at 0% growth for the worldwide demand three months ago.
Now 0% to 5% but we haven't changed much as far as the guidance on the top side.
And part of that was the shift towards the lower margin product.
Again I thought we were also assuming that shift three months ago.
Or is this shift more dramatic now? The shift is more dramatic now.
The movement on a relative basis in mix has been stronger in the outboard product.
More so than you even expected.
Yes.
And Europe has been weaker than we expected.
And when we shake all that mix up Joe that's why we're coming to the conclusions we are.
At this time would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Thanks everyone for participating.
Also we always appreciate the quality of the questions.
And you were going in my view right to the issues that I'm sure everyone is looking at.
I do want to stress we're really happy with this quarter.
Actually from our perspective we did very well.
I tried to lay out from an operating perspective of how well we've performed.
And as we said earlier we will work our way through the second quarter and we're confident about the remainder of the year.
Thank you for participating.
And as always we appreciate everyone's interest and questions.
Thanks.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation's 2012 second quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) And I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC Filings in today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy.
Thanks Bruce and good morning everyone.
I'll start with an overview of our second quarter result.
Our $0.90 EPS represents the tenth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
The quarter's increase demonstrates the continuing success of our business strategy.
Short-term financial performance continues to improve and even as we make increased investments for long time organic growth.
As we'd anticipated consolidated sales were lower due to factors affecting our Marine segments and to a lesser extent our Recreational segment.
Preliminary U.S.
retail boat industry demand was up in the quarter with improvements continuing in aluminum and fiberglass outboard product categories although at a lesser rate increase in the first quarter.
This is being partially offset by continuing weak demand in fiberglass sterndrive inboard categories especially in boats larger than 30 feet for demand continues to decline.
We experienced lower sales in Europe in all four of our segments.
For the total company excluding Sealine revenues declined about $41 million or 23% in this region.
Revenues generated from our U.S.
and the rest of world customers increased about 3%.
Ending boat pipeline inventories remained at healthy levels and our weeks on hand as measured on a trailing 12-month retail basis declined.
Our gross margin of 26% represents an increase of 90 basis points from the prior year.
Lower warranty depreciation and pension expenses combined with successful cost reduction activities contributed to the higher gross margin.
Contrary to the first quarter SG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate increased by 3% as lower variable compensation expense was only partially offset by company-wide investments in growth initiatives.
Finally our lower income tax provision contributed the higher net earnings during the quarter.
For those of you who may have printed out the slides and are flipping through those I'll call out page numbers.
We're now on Slide 5.
Sales decreased by 3% in the second quarter.
Sales generated by our ongoing European businesses declined by approximately $41 million.
Additionally revenues from our Sealine boat brand which we divested in Q3 of 2011 were approximately $20 million in the second quarter of 2011.
I will comment in a few moments about some of the other major factors that affected our topline during the quarter.
In the first half of the year our sales decreased by 2%.
Sales from our ongoing European businesses declined by about $61 million during the first six months.
Sealine sales during the first half of 2011 were approximately $32 million.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $116 million for the quarter an 8% increase compared to 2011.
Operating margins ex-charges increased by 110 basis points to 10.9%.
The increased in operating earnings reflect gross margin improvements as well as the reductions in operating expenses that I previously mentioned.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $184 million for the first half an increase of 2% compared to 2011.
Operating margins ex-charges increased by about 40 basis points to 9%.
Net earnings for the quarter were $0.90 per share including a $0.01 charge for restructuring $0.05 of losses on debt retirements and a $0.03 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share would have been $0.93 per share.
This compares to net earnings of $0.75 per share in the prior quarter which included a $0.01 of losses on debt retirements and the $0.02 benefit from special tax items.
Again excluding these items 2011's earnings per share would have been $0.74.
In summary our adjusted EPS increased by $0.19 or 26%.
I'm now going to Page 10.
Net earnings for the first half were $1.34 per share including $0.01 of restructuring charged $0.05 of losses on debt retirement and a $0.02 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share would have been $1.38 per share.
This compares to net earnings of $1.05 per share in prior year which included $0.05 of restructuring charges and $0.05 of losses on debt retirements and a $0.02 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items 2011's earnings per share would have been $1.13.
As adjusted our first half EPS increased by $0.25 or 22%.
Now let's turn to our operating segments starting with the Marine Engine segment.
From the geographic perspective sales to U.S.
markets were up 8%.
Our sales to Mercury European customers decreased 19% in the quarter.
Rest of world sales or sales outside of U.S.
and Europe were flat year-over-year.
In the aggregate Mercury sales were essentially flat for the quarter.
U.S.
sales growth was lead by strength in P&amp;A and by modest growth in outboard engines partially offset by declines in sterndrive engine.
In Europe difficult business conditions had an impact on all product categories.
Sales were most dramatically affected in Southern Europe where the economic weakness is most pronounced.
Rest of world sales experienced modest growth from outboards and P&amp;A but will offset by declines in sterndrives.
We continue to see weak conditions in Australia offset by improving conditions in New Zealand as they recover from last year's devastating earthquake.
Asia continued to demonstrate healthy growth rates.
From our product category perspective sales in our U.S.
and rest of world outboard engine businesses delivered modest growth reflecting an improving aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat marketplace in addition to market share gains.
This growth was more than offset by lower sales in Europe.
In addition outboard engine sales comparisons in the quarter were muted by a strong prior quarter sales resulting from the impact of the earthquake and Mercury's competitors supply and production of engine.
We consequently enabled market share gains.
Also during the quarter strong demand for our outboard engines especially our new 150 FourStroke and engines in the 75 90 and 115 horsepower family has outpaced Mercury's ability to meet immediate customer demands in these horsepowers.
Although we expect this issue will affect sales for the reminder of 2012 Mercury is taking actions to achieve greater production flexibility and capacity in 2013.
Sales decreased in Mercury sterndrive engine business compared to year ago levels due to overall weaker global market demand.
Our cruiser production ramp up issues described in our first quarter call have been addressed.
And we're currently meeting daily internal production goals and rebuilding safety stock levels to return to targeted lead times.
Production of sterndrive engines in the second quarter was greater than the prior year but production volumes on a year-to-date basis trail 2011.
Now on Page 14.
Mercury's global products and accessories business has reported a solid increase in U.S.
and rest of the world revenue due to stable boat participation new product launches and market share gains.
Record year-to-date sales and earnings were achieved by Land 'N' Sea and Attwood.
Both of these organizations had done an excellent job of delivering outstanding products and services in a very demanding marine marketplace.
This growth was partially offset by decrease in revenues in Europe.
This slide summarize the basic trends being experienced within the Engine segment our product category and region.
As you can see looking at the box on the bottom right almost 70% of the segment is selling products in the markets without a modest or strong growth by about 30% reflect declining conditions.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by approximately $5 million during the second quarter.
The quarter benefited from strong performance of the P&amp;A business partially offset by weak European results.
This segment also experienced slower warranty and variable compensation expenses partially offset by higher material cost and spending on growth initiatives.
After taking into account all these factors margins excluding charges were just under 18% in the quarter.
This represents a 100 basis point improvement versus the prior-year quarter.
In our Boat segment second quarter revenues were down 10% compared to the prior period.
If we exclude the impact of Sealine revenues decreased by 4% for the quarter.
On the international front adjusting for the Sealine divestiture our Boat segment in Europe experienced a 43% decline in sales.
Rest of world sales were down by about 4%.
In the U.S.
which represents almost two thirds of the segment revenues increased by 3%.
Now on Slide 18.
Now let's take a look at the U.S.
Powerboats industry statistics provided by our Statistical Surveys Inc.
to get a view of how demand is unfolding about boat category in Unite States.
As you can see based on preliminary second quarter data aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat markets continue to demonstrate strong growth although at a slower rate in the first quarter.
Fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat market was down modestly.
If we look at preliminary results for the month of June historically the largest volume month of the year outboard products improved nicely.
The sterndrive inboard fiberglass product volumes declined by approximately 11%.
The SSI's industry report that yesterday was published in Soundings Trade Only.
Boats greater than 30 feet in length which represents about 70% of our fiberglass sterndrive revenues were down 16% in June and 3% year-to-date.
So with the U.S.
boat market up 14% year-to-date in units I'm sure the question is why is the Brunswick's Boat segment not enjoying sales growth in the second quarter? The answer lies in mix the realty that we are global business and our production rate and pipeline management strategies.
This chart demonstrates how current regional trends affect our specific mix of boat categories.
While the worldwide recreation of boat industry is more heavily weighted to our boat products more than half of our global boat sales dollars are concentrated in the fiberglass sterndrive inboard category which continues to experience market decline.
Now on Slide 20.
During the quarter Brunswick global retail sales in units grew by approximately 7%.
Global wholesale shipments on the other hand declined by 6% as the seasonal decline in dealer inventories was more significant than the prior year.
This was the result of strong domestic retail demand and our decision to increase pipeline inventories at the end of last year in advance of the 2012 selling season.
For me an expected strong growth in aluminum fish and pontoon boat categories.
As a result we ended the quarter at 31 weeks in hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis versus 32 weeks on hand a year earlier.
Our pipelines for aluminum product were up over last year's level reflecting strong market growth.
But our pipeline for fiberglass product 24 feet and larger is down and continues at record low levels.
Assuming current retail trends continue we would expect wholesale shipment trends in the second half to increase and better track retail growth rates as we restore our pipeline inventories to levels consistent with market dynamics.
We would also expect that in 2012 with a modest increase in pipeline inventories versus the end of 2011.
Boat segment's Q2 operating earnings declined when compared to 2011 with margins excluding charges at 2.7%.
The major factor for the earnings decrease was the sales decline which in summary was caused by international weakness primarily in Europe continued declines in the fiberglass sterndrive inboard marketplace and our production and pipeline management strategies I just discussed.
Now let's take a look at our two Recreational segments.
Life Fitness completed another excellent quarter.
Sales rose slightly compared to last year's second quarter despite the 14% decline in Europe.
Rest of world sales were down modestly in the quarter.
U.S.
sales increased by 11%.
Life Fitness' solid growth over the last two years supports our longer-term outlook for this segment.
Life Fitness continues to outpace its competitors and gain market share.
When we combine the organization's outstanding performance with positive demographic and healthcare trends in the fitness sector Life Fitness is well positioned to continue to deliver excellent results.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew modestly while operating margin remained strong at 13.9%.
These strong results given the difficult comparison to 2011 with sales grew about 15%.
Now on Slide 24.
Sales in Bowling and Billiards declined 6% in the quarter.
We were operating a fewer bowling centers versus last year's quarter and equivalent center sales were down slightly.
Although bowling products experienced decline in the quarter sales and earnings growth during the first half have been strong.
European sales were down 6%.
The segment's operating earnings decrease modestly as a result of lower sales partially offset by improved operating efficiencies.
Operating margins were higher by 10 basis points.
Now I'll turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financial and then I'll come back to give you an updated on our perspective of 2012 and beyond.
Thanks Dusty.
On Slide 25 I'd like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our second quarter P&amp;L.
And I'll also comment on some forward-looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring exit and impairment charges which were approximately $1 million in the quarter.
The net charge reflects continued manufacturing consolidation activities in our Mercury and Marine segment along with a modest gain resulting from the sale of Mercury store Oklahoma facility.
Our current estimate for full year 2012 restructuring is now in the $3 million to $5 million range or $0.03 to $0.5 a share for previously announced actions.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was $21.6 million in the quarter a slight increase versus the same period in 2011.
Higher losses on the early extinguishment of debt partially offset by the impact of lower debt balances contributed to the modest increase in net interest expense in the quarter.
In the second quarter we've repurchased $22 million of debt.
And earlier today we announced our plans to accelerate our 2012 debt repurchase program by calling all of the 11.25% notes due in 2013.
This transaction as well as the retirement of $6 million of our 7.75% bonds during July will result in approximately $8 million of extinguishment losses in the third quarter.
Our estimated net interest expense for the year is approximately $76 million to $77 million.
This would result in a reduction in net interest of about $21 million compared to 2011.
Moving to Slide 27 as result of our debt reduction activities in the quarter our debt outstanding at the end of Q2 was $675 million.
After completing our planned retirements in Q3 our outstanding debt will be reduced to below $600 million.
We may opportunistically repurchase additional debt during the second half.
We don't anticipate the amount to be significant.
During the quarter foreign currency had a less than 2% negative effect on our sales due primarily to a weaker euro versus the dollar.
Currency also had a modest negative impact on operating earnings compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This does include the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect that currency exchange rate fluctuations have on our year-over-year earnings comparisons.
We estimate that currency will have a similar impact on a full year sales and earnings basis unless exchange rates change significantly on current levels.
They're changing as we speak for the better.
On Slide 29 our effective tax rate for the second quarter was approximately 11% compared to a rate of 20% in the second quarter of 2011.
The reduced tax rate reflects our expectation that a higher percentage of our 2012 pre-tax earnings will be derived from domestic sources which will not require a corresponding tax provision due to GAAP requirements.
In addition our Q2 effective tax rate included specific non-recurring benefits from special tax items which added $0.03 to our EPS.
Our 2012 tax expense will continue to be comprised primarily to foreign and state income taxes as well as the effects on the non-recurring special tax items.
We now expect our overall 2012 effective tax rate to be approximately 16%.
Moving to Slide 30 and turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operations in the first half was $45 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of $47 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2012 is approximately $95 million.
Pension expense resulting from our frozen defined benefit plans totaled $12 million in the first six months compared to $16 million in the prior year.
In the first half the company made cash contributions to its plans of approximately $21 million.
We expect our 2012 pension expense to be approximately $25 million which is a decrease of $7 million from 2011.
In 2012 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the range of $75 million to $85 million.
Turning to Slide 31 changes in our primarily working capital accounts excluding the impact of divestitures resulted in a use of cash in the first half and totaled approximately $129 million.
This change is largely due to the seasonal requirements of marine customers.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by $99 million.
Inventories increased by just $1 million.
Accrued expenses decreased by $70 million.
And accounts payable increased by $40 million.
Given the seasonality of sales in our marine businesses we are anticipating that we will be liquidating working capital from now through event.
However based on current assumptions we believe the changes in working capital is likely to result in use of cash for the total year.
Capital expenditures in the first half were approximately $38 million.
Our 2012 plan includes approximately $120 million of capital expenditures.
The increase from 2011 primarily reflects amounts required to fund our growth initiatives.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures in 2012 were $18 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our Marine segment.
So in summary on Slide 33 during the first half we generated $28 million of free cash flow which was almost entirely used for debt retirement.
And supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $275 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of $784 million.
So I'll turning the call back to Dusty now for some concluding comments.
Thanks Peter.
We continue to be pleased with the progress we're making in our numerous growth initiatives which are underway throughout our entire organization.
I want a make a comment or two on some them going clockwise on Page 34.
Mercury Marines' new 150 horsepower four stroke engine which is introduced earlier this year continues to be extremely popular.
Sales have been strong and the acceptance level in the marketplace is truly global.
We're quiet excited about this new engine platform.
Our Marine parts and accessory business continues to be a strong contributor to our performance at both the top and bottomline.
Picture here is an example of our innovative integrated fuel system from Attwood.
Revenues from these systems is expected to double this year and sales continue to grow with boat manufactures.
These systems were designed and developed by Attwood to help boat manufactures economically and efficiently meet tighter EPA guidelines.
At the bottom right is our new boat plant in Brazil.
Construction of the building was completed on time and on budget.
And we expect to begin making a range of Sea Ray and Bayliner boats for the Brazilian and neighboring markets beginning in the fourth quarter of this year.
Finally Sea Ray recently announced that they will be entering in the jet boat market with a 21-foot sport boat in the fall of this year.
And will be followed shortly by a 24-foot model.
The development of the new the jet propulsion sport boats is part of our ongoing effort to reach the full spectrum of recreational boaters.
Also in the second half of the year in response to market feedback Sea Ray will offer 22 foot and 24-foot models of its Sundeck line which will use Mercury Marine's or Verado outboard engines.
Now on Slide 35 new products activity is also strong in our recreation businesses.
Life Fitness has introduced a number of new products recently and the two we see here Lifescape on the top left and Synergy 360 on the top right are doing really well in the marketplace.
Exclusive to Life Fitness Lifescape engages the user in a truly personal experience through immersive outdoor adventures that bring workouts to life.
The new Synergy 360 combine several popular total body dynamic exercises into its system that helps personal trainers more effectively train individuals and groups giving users fun unlimited ways to exercise.
Look at the bottom right as it first may appear to be just Brunswick Bowling pins.
But it is really StringPin a version of the game that is growing in popularity.
Individual pins are each attached to a string which facilitate setup during play.
More economical to install and maintain than a traditional pin setter.
This allows string bowling proprietors to add lanes economically.
And finally we have seen substantial improvement in the performance at our select Brunswick Zone XL locations that have upgraded Laser Tag and other games.
Recently we have seen excellent results at locations in Georgia Colorado and Pennsylvania after installation of the laser Lazer arenas.
Likewise additional arcade in related games in Georgia and Colorado have exceeded expectations.
Now going to Slide 36.
Finally I'll conclude with the few comments regarding our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We're increasing our 2012 GAAP earnings guidance to a range of $1.45 a share to $1.60 per share.
During the second half of 2012 we continue to anticipate the successful execution of our strategic initiatives.
A few of which I've just described.
Our current plan reflects extremely diversified set of geographic and product demand trends that affected our topline performance in the first half.
We anticipate continued strong U.S.
retail growth in the aluminum and fiberglass outboard marine markets and solid fundamentals in the fitness industry.
These positive trends however will be partially offset our weaker demand in fiberglass board and sterndrive engine categories We further anticipate sales and the European markets will continue to be under significant pressure.
As a result of these factors we're now targeting low single-digit revenue growth for the full year versus our previous outlook of mid single-digit growth.
We continue to believe that as a result cost reductions and improvements in operating efficiencies our target gross margin for 2012 will be approximately 24%.
And although operating expenses will be higher.
We still anticipate the strong annual increase in operating earnings.
Additionally we now expect our affected tax rate in restructuring charges for the full year to be lower than our prior estimate.
And despite the seasonal weakness in marine markets in the fourth quarter our goal is to approach breakeven EPS in that quarter due to contributions of our recreational businesses and reduced interest expense.
And that concludes the formal part of this session.
And we're now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question is from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital.
Maybe just to start with very quick clarification on guidance obviously sales coming down a little bit but the earning guidance is going up with lower tax rate and such.
When you look at just kind of like the ex-restructuring profit expectations at the operating line.
Have those changed I mean that basis from your product guidance at all? Yes.
They're little better because we're doing better on margins Ed.
We're seeing a nice gross margin pickup here in the first half of the year.
We're able to manage operating expenses very well.
And we're going to take what we captured in the first half and run it through the rest of the year.
And then I guess at the start of the year you talked about plans for your increased investments this year.
I'm just wondering if either that the level of that spending or the nature of that spending has changed at all since the start of the year.
No not at all.
We've been able to maintain our plan for spending levels we had anticipated dealing.
And we're getting at cost in other places Ed.
But we've made a firm decision here that we need to continue to invest in all the growth initiatives that give us the opportunity to make the improvements in a difficult economic environment that we've described.
And we anticipate that our 2014 longer-term guidance still remains in place not withstanding what's happening in the marketplace.
And it's going to be driven by our growth initiatives and it's therefore imperative that we continue to investment in.
And then just one last and then I'll pass it along.
But what do you think about kind of the dynamics that the cruiser market which has still been a big challenge.
How are you thinking about allocating investment dollars in research and development and in other areas towards that business in particular? I guess is that a business that you think you can make and kind of move the needle through innovation or is it a more a matter of the consumer just coming back at some point in time? It's both and without giving too much away.
First I've been pretty open in this call and a lot of investor and analysis meetings Ed.
The cruiser consumers still buying these boats and tell us they're going to buy a new boat but they need the economy to improve tax rate to be set et cetera.
And all that's going to come with the passage of time.
And we think it's important that we stay well positioned in this market.
But the other side of this is this market sort of gone from 6 000 units to a 1 000 units.
And there are in round number 50 models that are going into this market.
And we have a heck of a lot of market share there.
And we think there's a good opportunity for us to continue to invest in the innovative and new product because we probably are one of the few people that has the volume to do it.
Your next question is from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research Couple of things I wanted to hone in on.
You talked in the Boat segment about a world wide retail growth up 7% wholesale down 6% obviously the two big factors driving the delta there.
One obviously pricing and mix given what you're selling and two the inventory reductions.
I was hoping you could maybe quantify the relative impact of those two items and help us understand how we should think about that going forward.
I think you mentioned that inventories would be such that wholesale would more closely match retail or should I think that wholesale maybe even exceeds retailing in the back half of the year little bit? It could exceed a little bit in the back half of the year as we try to get pipeline levels so that we go into '13 feeling well.
Here is what fundamentally happened at a high level.
We added a couple of thousand units to the pipeline and I think at the end of '11 and I think we reported on that in our first quarter call.
And that was primarily driven by our aluminum business and I think our guys there made a fabulous decision that the market had a real opportunity to favor to be very hard and moving very fast.
And there view was let's get the product out there then we can maintain production in a why that we talked about before.
If we have to increase production by more than 15% or 20% on the spring capacity basis leave worry about quality and the greatness of the product we're putting out.
Our guys made a great decision there.
Let's get them out in the pipeline and it proved to be a perfect decision at great uptick.
We've gained nice share in the aluminum market.
In fact I would say outstanding share.
And we've been able to run our plans in a way that we're maintaining a quality of product that we want.
So what now has to happen in the second half is if we didn't call out by product type we've just set over own boats we've had a one-week reduction on weeks on hand.
The reduction in weeks on hand has been much more significant than that in our aluminum business and our guys are going to have to get back work with the dealer network to get on position great for '13.
In the fiber glass we've had almost no up tick in the number of units that we have in the pipeline.
We are up a little bit in weeks on hand but that's just because of weakness in the market.
But we've already said the number of units we have there are driven by minimum stocking levels that we and our dealers to talk about.
Last year we shut down lot of our fiberglass plants for a good part of the early winter.
In order to make sure that the result we're seeing now that we got the right number of boats out in the pipeline occurred and even with relatively low selling levels we are selling boats and therefore we're going to need to run our plants in the second half of this year when we did last year.
So when we add all that up our wholesale might need to be double-digits in the second half of the year in order for us to get our pipelines at appropriate levels.
Is that help of James.
And then I guess sort of along those lines as I think about the fourth quarter.
The comment you made about breaking even in 4Q would be an enormous accomplishment.
Can you just give us a little bit more color on that obviously the impediment previously to accomplishing that has primarily been the Boat segment.
Is it that we're going to see improvement in the Boat segment or is it the other segments are going to more than enough to offset that? And how should I think about your commentary from a quarter or two ago that you're hoping to finish the year at breakevenish levels that in the Boat segment coming out of 2012? First you'll see improvement in the Boat segment but you'll also see improvement in our other business.
The answer there is all the above.
This goal of having our boat business on a run rate basis be running at breakeven as we exit '12.
Frankly it's going to be difficult in the market we're in.
This European market is pretty touch and you saw this in our statistics and how far we're down there.
And I just don't see that get any better as we finish out this year.
So that's a pretty big decline.
We will talk about it when we get to yearend as to where we are James but I'm not going to be upset on run rate breakeven basis leaving '12 just because of what's begun to happen in the marketplace.
Your next question is from Jimmy Baker with Riley &amp; Company.
I'm hoping you could start by talking a little bit more about the tightness in outboard engine availability.
May be how much that as a function of the overall market outgrowing your expectations versus share gains that you maybe retained some share gains from last year that you thought were more onetime in nature related to Tsunami or maybe just to stronger than anticipated response to some of your new offering? It's both of those but I think the first thing is as we said production capacities and it's started with that the new 150.
We thought we made some fairly aggressive assumptions Jimmy about what market reaction would be.
And the 150 just has dramatically exceeded our expectations.
The other thing that's happened in the 75 90 115 category is that a lot of folks who are buying aluminum fishing boats and pontoons are moving their horsepower up.
So we see things like people who normally would have bought a 60 now are buying a 75.
People who've bought a 75 were buying a 90.
And as a result we have run through the first half substantially in excess of what our planning capacity was in these product launch for 2012.
But we've not narrowed all the demand.
And we have quiet a backlog around these horsepower categories.
Now a couple of things are going to happen here.
Folks who have a backlog as they walk out of the season may or may not leave the orders in place.
And if they don't we're going to able to bill from stock to take care of '13.
I say leave the orders in place which hopeful will happen.
We have allocated capital.
And we're in the process right now in our Mercury Organization of increasing capacity for '13 so that we can meet anticipated market demand.
But fundamentally in those categories we're sort of running out what we'd anticipated would have been 2016 2017 maybe 2015 levels.
And it came on us very suddenly.
And this is all I want to be clear a really high class problem.
And we've gotten a lot of questions over the years about as you get to set your capacity.
What you're going to do if it's more and we've said we'll go invest and that's exactly what we're going to do.
My anticipation now is that we could lose a little share in these horsepower categories in the coming months because I believe there are customers who had boats to sale.
And we couldn't get them Mercury engine in horsepower categories and my judgment is they've likely gone to some of the competition.
Hopefully we'll always get them back because of the power of our product offerings.
But we need to be upfront that that's probably getting right ahead into this My follow-up which was I'll ask it for the just for the Boat segment.
I think you previously said you can service the U.S.
boat market at 200 000 to 225 000 units with your current footprint.
But that's obviously very mix sensitive.
So I'm just interested to hear you spoke about it now from the Mercury angle but just from the boat group side what level let's just say in the outboard market could we get to before you have to start making some pretty significant CapEx on that side? I think we can make another turn in improvement in the outboard market before we would need to do capacity investments.
But there is big difference here.
Capacity investment in engines can involves more machining and tooling which a fair bit more expensive than what we have to do especially in the outboard boat business.
The CapEx it takes there to add additional capacity is fractions of what it is to add capacity in the engine business.
And it's something we can do and move on a heck of a lot quicker than we can in the engine business.
So I'm anticipating our outboard boat guys and again I call it's a great issues are going to show up in front of Peter and I here one of these days and say we need little money to do capacity expansion and we're going to say you got it where you want it and how you fast that you need to get it done.
Just really outstanding operating margins at Mercury in the quarter up year-over-year again so that was a really strong quarter last year and frankly it's a little bit difficult for me to reconcile the strength there with the fact of that business is running at or above capacity.
At least in the outboard side can you talk a little bit about what drove that improvement and how we should think about margins year-over-year in that business in the back half? I think the couple of things.
First when you're running these lands as hot and heavy as Mercury is running them and if you can do it efficiently you start to get real margin improvement on the plant floor.
And even though our Mercury fellows with the issues we had in bringing up the sterndrive line and the over capacity issues we've had with these outboard ranges that I've previously spoke about.
They've just done a magnificent job in keeping our heads and making every operation as efficient as it be.
I think that's number one.
Number two we're getting really nice growth in P&amp;A.
And P&amp;A is good high margin business.
Now a lot of the growth is what I would call in lower margin segments of our P&amp;A business.
Land 'N' Sea which is primarily a distribution business Atwood which for lack of a better term is a bit of specialty in marine engineering company have had as we said record growth.
They've reported record quarters this quarter.
And their margins are good not where the lot of other P&amp;A margins are but when we add all that together that's where we're getting some margin growth.
And then lastly that we're seeing the fully benefit of the plan consolidation benefits.
And then I can add one more Jimmy I know how you are.
You're going to comeback to modify each.
I can't say enough to about the quality of the product that we've been sending out of Mercury.
And what happens is as you keep improving quality you gradually overtime so you're warranty gets better.
And we've begun to see that from a lot of hard work on Mercury guys did three years ago two years ago a year ago and now showing up in warranty rates for our product.
So when you add all that together lot of good operating sweat muscle keeping nose-to-the-grindstone by our Mercury guys to get all this.
Your next question is from the line of Rommel Dionisio with Wedbush Securities.
At the Miami Boat Show I think talked about to expanding dealership networks and distribution as a key focus area.
One of you can just update us on that with the way you see as boat market and is that part of the reason why you're expecting wholesale to be fairly strong in the back half of the year.
Is some of that inventory fill for these new dealers that you're adding? We're continuing to add dealers as we go through the year.
And in a way that works in the real world we lose a few dealers add a few more.
And that's what all of our boat brands are out there doing on a day-to-day basis.
The increase in wholesale that we're talking about is not really going to be impacted significantly by these additional dealer centers.
It is back to we've really played the pipelines down in certain categories.
And we need to get a refill so that the dealers can be well positioned for '13.
I just want a quick follow-up.
I don't want to quibble too much on data that's coming from the third party source but I notice that the fiberglass sterndrive.
Do you guys have revise number for Q1 being up 6% and that's remarkably different number from the kind of flat trend that I think you have said on the prior conference calls you've talking about.
Is just strikes me as being a pretty unique statistical anomaly is there something wrong there is it normally revised upward to that significantly? I'm sorry who is revising third party data? I just noticed on slide 19.
Q1 fiberglass sterndrive is up 6% and I realize you're getting some of the third party source.
But all along we've been hearing it flat sterndrive market and that's pretty big difference.
So I just wondered if there is something unusual there in the data? I think its a little small boat.
What we talked about is for us the type of boats that make us the most money are larger boat.
But I would say if you go to that slide it's primarily driven by small boats.
Your next question is from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Dusty could you comment on used prices and maybe break down by maybe lower end versus higher end boats.
From what we hear with dealers and I always want to be clear our view about used pricing is a bit anecdotal.
But it's something we have a lot of conversation about with our dealer network is these prices continue to hold up or even increase because especially lets say Cruiser product there is a relative great used boats out there.
Dealers do not feel they have enough and when they can get a good one it's sold in a matter of hours and days.
And I believe the marketplace is gradually raising prices there.
In terms of splits by brand strength we continue to believe that the premium brands not only ours but those brands that are out there in the industry are having better price increases than or the value bands in the used market.
And as a follow-up are you seeing any change in finance underwriting standards in the last few quarter or the last years or so? Are you talking of retail? Yes I am.
No.
Thing seems to be continuing the same.
But we need to be open with one thought in our mind is we need to watch Europe and see what really starts to happen over there.
Haven't seen or heard of anything but then I wouldn't be surprise if it don't tighten up there.
Your next question is from line of Michael Swartz with SunTrust With regards to your guidance and in light of kind of the strong double-digit declines out of Europe I mean what are you kind of baking in for the continent I guess the second-half of the year.
Are you looking forward to continue declining at current rates or to decelerate even further? We're thinking continuous decline at current rates but the second half is fair bit different and you really know this as the cover us.
We saw a lot fewer boats at retail in the second half.
And therefore second-half risk is not like first-half risk for us.
So our view is that that the client we've seen are likely to be in the area in the second half that we saw on the first half.
Right when you talk about just wholesale shipments being head of retail demand you're talking specifically about the U.S.? Primarily yes.
No questions.
There may be a little bit but it's not going to be move overall needle in with some of our brands and models in the European market.
Could you also maybe just comment on how Canada is performing on the Marine side? Canada is doing well.
I'm pulling out something here so that I can be accurate.
Canada is fundamentally flat.
And then one final question on the Fitness business and I know you have talked about this in past quarters about potential margin pressure coming down the pipe.
And some of your competitors fight back on some loss share over the past years or a two.
Have you started to see any of that materialize or is kind of as is? Well our guys did a great job with some margins that we reported but I would tell you in certain geographic regions they are beginning to see very strong pricing pressure for some of what I'll call the bigger opportunities.
In fact prices that we don't understand but our guys are dealing with it.
Your next question is from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Circling back to the sterndrive issues that you said you have corrected.
Any type of color or frame work you can give us on what that cost you in the first half of the year as far as sterndrive engine revenue and then also clearly those engines going to your boats and competitors boat.
So that the engine revenue on the one side and then the boat revenue that may be cost you that'd be question number one.
And then looking at Europe could you just remind us what your expectations in general were for Europe entering the year 30 days ago and then now as it pertain to the whole 2012 year.
Well first on the engine side we probably lost in the engine business to mid-single digit operating dollars.
On the boat business it actually didn't impacted and the reason is not that we fight an allocation game with our focus was in others.
I think our fellows and a lot of customers did a lot of adjusting as to what they brought to market.
So that they were almost on a weekly basis and I think this is happening throughout the industry bearing their production in order to meet the engines that we were going to be able to get out I think in a week.
So I think our focus didn't really changed much.
In relation to that Dusty then granted probably I think you said on the last call.
You don't anticipate making a lot of that up in the back half of the year and I guess that's similar to the commentary you made on the outboard engine side.
But how sticky do you think some of that loss business was as far as carrying over into next year.
I don't think it going to be.
In fact Tim as we're looking at share we yet have been able to see that we lost any share.
And a bit of that is that this sterndrive market has as you see the statistics especially what was published in Trade Only today.
If you look at June gasoline sterndrive market is looking pretty tough here.
But I think we saw demand continuing to decrease as we were ramping up.
And it all came together in a nice way for us.
On your Europe question we headed into the year assuming sort of steady European economy.
By the end of the first quarter we have seen a 12% reduction in sales and assumed at that point that's about what it would be for the remainder of the year.
As you can see in the second quarter we were off 23% exceed line.
And that equates to you put it two together about 20% down and that's what we're expecting for the reminder of the year but it is fast moving target and the events of this morning may be we could change in a little bit.
And then in expansion of Peter's Christmas card list Dusty I'll ask you to put on your swamy hand and bring out your crystal ball here this is an update.
As thing stand now for 2012 what are your for the industry as a whole for the U.S.
market and then globally as for as retail unit boat sales? I think the industry as whole if we add it all up right now.
It's sort of 14%.
Domestically? Domestically yes.
My guess is that it will stay up double-digits but it will decline a little from 14% because we have seen progressive slowing as we've gone through the year.
And I think as we go through the election cycle people worry about so called fiscal cleft.
The cleft is not so called what it's called and so called.
That's coming at us I think its reason what to expect that we'll continue to see some slowing like we did in June.
But we have got great momentum that continues in a lot of the really high volume product which is the aluminum product and therefore on unit basis I think it will be up a double-digit.
I think when we look around the world because Europe is the second largest Marine market after the U.S.
and because Europe is going to go such difficulty.
I think low-to-mid single-digit is likely to be what the entire world looks like Tim.
And then finally I guess revisiting that the used boat market in general it sounds like you talked about the Cruiser segment.
On the one hand you've got a limited amount of product there but on the other as you move up especially over the 30-feet you've said before that segment of the market in the U.S.
continues to be challenged.
Is it just people are hesitant given the small business owners and the fiscal tax cliff yet when they are buying there may be gravitating to the used boats.
Is that the dynamic going on? And I guess then taking the step further back it appears and please correct me I'm wrong that that broader dynamic of just the lack of used boats is further helping fuel the new boat side of the market just a color on each of those two pieces Dusty? Those buyers as they think about buying a new boat in our view continue to be strongly inhabited by the overall economic climate which includes the whole bundle of what are tax is going to be or what's unemployment going to actually do what are we going to do about the fiscal cliff all of that.
But what's happening is the used boat market in that category is very robust to the extent there are used boats available.
So it's happening.
As dealers I believe are mining the marketplace on the drum of every way possible to get there hands on one of those boats because they can sell them and that's very important.
I think as we think about this segment as the market going forward those buyers are still there.
They've gone from 6 000 to 1 000 but the 6 000 are continuing to boat.
All of our work is says boating is a part of their DNA and their lifestyle.
But right now they only want to buy a new used boat versus a new because they feel more comfortable about the purchase in their personal economic situation than they do in new purchase.
And that's the world we're living in.
And that's the world we're prepared to play in.
And it doesn't impact over view of the medium and long-term health of that segment for our brands that participate there.
And our guys are just are going to had to do a good job of managing expand some product development et cetera as we work our way through that dynamic.
At this time we'd like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some for some concluding remarks.
Thanks a million.
As always I appreciate the interest the quality of the questions that we get.
I happened to believe that the folks who follow us are better than we've seen in most industries.
I want to close by doing three things.
I want to congratulate all of our employees who get on these calls.
And we already said when we were going in a height of the downturn life was easier for us as managers than it would ever be because we knew what we had to do that's pretty simple.
And we always anticipated then we got to this part of the evolution of the economy and our rolling at managing the businesses would be very very difficult and our guys have done a magnificent job.
The men and women who work in this company and you're dealing with the really tough economic conditions and changing economic conditions are hitting the ball everyday and I can't congratulate them enough.
Secondly we are not perplexed or perturbed at all about what's unfolding in the marketplace.
Of course we would like Europe to be better but that's why and Europe is going to be what its going to be and then we've got to go do other things throughout the company.
And we will continue to do that but the main aim is we've got to stay focus on our growth initiatives and deliver against those growth initiatives as we go forward.
And then got a question early on and it was a good question.
Are you still continuing to invest in your growth initiatives? The answer is yes absolutely.
And we will continue to do that and even if we have adjusts our cost structure to live with a market.
We're not going to back off on the growth investments.
And then thirdly and the tie-up to all of that is our management team continues to be confident in the 24 team guidance that we gave beginning in depth at the Miami Boat Show and the one thing that's always true about guidance at long term.
How you get there is never going to be the way you talked about.
And we'd like to say we know we're heading south but there are 14 roads to south and we're going to have to travel the ones that are open for us.
And that's what we'll be doing but we're not backing off at what we think this company can do and we're confident our ability to go do it.
So with that I'll close.
And again thanks everybody for the time and attention.
And I'm sure Bruce will be more then happy to clear up all the confusion that I've created on this call.
So thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining us.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation's 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Peter Hamilton our CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
Also during our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the Supplemental Information Section of the consolidated financial statements of company's today's release.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy.
Thanks Bruce good morning everyone.
I am going to start with an overview of our third quarter results.
As you are aware earlier this month we announced a series of restructuring and impairment actions in our Boat segment which represented third quarter charges that we estimated to be in the range of $25 million to $32 million pretax.
As Peter will explain the amount actually booked in the quarter is approximately $28 million.
Because this amount is significant we will be describing many of our financial metrics for the quarter on an adjusted basis which excludes restructuring and impairment charges losses on debt retirement and any special tax item.
We believe that this adjusted comparison provides the necessary important perspective on the company's operating performance in addition to GAAP comparisons and will improve comparability versus past periods.
In addition we expect further restructuring charges related to previously announced actions in the fourth quarter this year as well as further debt extinguishment expenses and so we will be referring to adjusted financial metrics in Q4 and for the full year as well.
Our third quarter results demonstrated continued success of our business strategy.
Short-term financial performance continues to improve even as we make increased investments for long-term organic growth.
Gross profit as well as adjusted operating earnings and net earnings per diluted share each increased by double digit percentages versus prior year.
Our Engine segment experienced strong revenue growth during the quarter but was partially offset by lower sales in our Boat Fitness and Bowling and Billiards segments.
We experienced lower sales in Europe in all four of our segments.
For the total company excluding Sealine revenues declined about 15% in this region.
If we include 2011 Sealine sales European sales declined 19%.
Revenue generated from our U.S.
and rest of world customers increased by 4%.
We continue to make excellent progress in reducing our debt balances.
Debt outstanding at end of the quarter was $598 million; the lowest level since June 1997.
Sales increased by 1% in the third quarter.
Sales of our ongoing European businesses declined by approximately $17 million.
Additionally revenues from the Sealine and Boat brand which we divested in the third quarter of 2011 were approximately $5 billion in the third quarter of 2011.
I will comment in a few moments about some of the other major factors that affected our topline during the quarter.
Year-to-date our sales have decreased by 1%.
Sales of our ongoing European businesses declined by about $80 million or 17% during the first nine months.
Sealine sales during 2011 were approximately $37 million; U.S.
and rest of world revenues increased 3% year-to-date.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $66 million for the quarter a 35% increase compared to 2011.
Operating margins ex-charges increased by 180 basis points to 7.4%.
The increase in operating earnings reflect strong gross margin improvements partially offset by increases in operating expenses.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $249 million for the nine months an increase of 9% compared to 2011.
This reflects an increase in all of our operating segments.
Operating margins ex-charges increased by about 80 basis points to 8.5%.
Net earnings for the quarter were $0.02 per share including $0.31 of charges for restructuring $0.08 of losses on debt retirements and $0.02 of losses from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share were $0.43 per share.
This compares to net earnings of $0.05 per share in the prior year which included $0.14 of charges for restructuring $0.13 of losses on debt retirements and a penny of losses from special tax items.
Again excluding these items 2011 earnings per share were $0.33.
In summary our adjusted EPS increased by $0.10 or30%.
Net earnings for the nine months were $1.36 per share including $0.32 of restructuring charges and $0.13 of losses on debt retirement.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share were $1.81 per share.
This compares to net earnings of a $1.10 per share in the prior year which included $0.20 of restructuring charges $0.18 of losses on debt retirements and a $0.02 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items 2011 earnings per share were $1.46.
Our year-to-date EPS as adjusted increased by $0.35 or 24%.
Now let's take a look at our operating segments starting with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective sales to U.S.
markets were up 14%.
Our sales to Mercury European customers decreased 12% in the quarter.
Rest of world sales which we define our sales outside of the U.S.
and Europe were up 3% year-over-year.
In the aggregate Mercury sales increased 11% for the quarter.
U.S.
sales growth was led by strength in outboard engines and by solid growth in parts and accessories.
In Europe difficult economic conditions had an impact on all product categories.
Sales were most dramatically affected in Southern Europe where the economic weakness is most pronounced.
Rest of the world experienced modest growth mainly from our P&amp;A business.
We continue to see weak conditions in Australia.
From a product category perspective sales in our U.S.
outboard engine business delivered strong growth reflecting a healthy aluminum and fiberglass outboard in the marketplace.
Strong demand continued for our new 150 horsepower FourStroke Verado engine family and engines in the 75 90 and 115 horsepower family.
During the quarter the Mercury team launched projects support the segment’s anticipated growth and to increase manufacturing capacity.
Mark Schwabero and his team are doing an excellent job of adjusting to this increased demand which will result in a strong growth in units produced compared to the prior year.
This strong growth in the United States outboard sales was partially offset by lower sales in Europe.
Stable conditions were experienced in rest of the world markets.
And favorable global demand trends continue to effect revenues in sterndrive engines.
Mercury’s parts and accessories businesses reported a strong increase in US markets and modest growth in rest of the world revenues.
The continued solid performance in this area of Mercury is due to stable boating participation new product launches and market share gains.
Record year-to-date sales on earnings were achieved by Land ‘N' Sea and Attwood.
Both of these organizations have done an excellent job of delivering out products and services to a very demanding marine marketplace.
Growth was partially offset by decrease in revenues in Europe.
This slide summarizes the basic trends we experienced within the engine segment our product category and region.
As you can see almost 70% of the segment in selling products in the markets with modest to strong growth for the segment’s products categories or about 30% reflect declining conditions.
Mercury’s operating earnings increased by approximately $22 million or 41% during the third quarter.
The quarter reflected strong improvement in sales and production in the (inaudible) business continued solid performance in P&amp;A and increases in sterndrive production.
The segment also benefited from cost reduction activities and lower restructuring charges partially offset by spending on growth initiatives.
After taking in to account of all these factors operating margins excluding charges were just under 15% in the quarter.
This represents a 240 basis points improvement versus the prior year’s quarter.
In our boat segment Q3 revenues were down 7% compared to the prior period.
If we exclude the impact of Sealine revenues decreased by 5% for the quarter.
Adjusting for the Sealine divestiture our boat segment in Europe experienced a 38% decline in sales.
Rest of the world sales increased by 23% which included growth associated with our Brazil initiative.
In the US which represents two-thirds of this segment revenues declined by 9%.
The overall US growth market is up year-to-date in units but because of mix and the impact of Europe in Sealine our sales did not [attract] the US boat market unit growth.
Before we explore these factors further let's stop and take a look at the US power boat industry statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Incorporated to get a view of how retail demand is unfolding by boat category in the United States.
As you can see based on preliminary third quarter data aluminum and fiber glass outboard boat products continue to demonstrate strong growth; although a slower rate than the first half of the year.
The fiberglass sterndrive and boat market decreased at a greater rate than the previous quarter.
And SSI’s industry report published and sounding (inaudible) fiberglass boats greater than 30 feet in length which represents about 70% of our fiberglass sterndrive revenues was down 7% year-to-date.
This charts demonstrates our current regional trends that affect our specific mix of boat categories.
While the worldwide recreation boat industry is more heavily weighted to our boat products more than half of our global boats sales dollars are concentrated in the fiber glass sterndrive inboard category which continues to experience more (inaudible).
During the quarter Brunswick global retail sales and units grew by approximately 5%.
Global wholesale shipments on the other hand increased by 1% as dealers reduced pipeline inventory.
As a result our dealers ended the quarter at 26 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12 months retail basis versus 27 weeks on hand a year earlier.
Our pipelines for aluminum product are up over last year’s level one unit basis.
The weeks on hand on a trailing 12 month retail basis are down reflecting the stronger than expected market growth.
Pipelines of smaller fiberglass product are down slightly but up on a weeks on hand basis.
Pipelines for fiberglass stern drive product 24 feet and larger are down and continue at record low levels.
Weeks on hand are also lower versus the prior year as dealers are adjusting stocking levels and response to weak demand.
Assuming current retail trends continue we would expect aluminum wholesale shipment trends in the fourth quarter to increase consistent with market dynamics.
We would expect in 2012 with a modest increase in pipeline inventories versus the end of 2011.
The boat segment third quarter operating earnings declined when compared to 2011 with margins excluding charges at a modest 7.7%.
The major factor driving the earnings decrease was higher restructuring charges.
The decline in sales also contributed to lower earnings and was caused by international weaknesses primarily in Europe and continued declines in fiberglass sterndrive inboard market place Now let’s look at our two recreational segments.
The Life Fitness declined compared to last year’s third quarter a quarter with double-digit percentage sales growth.
Higher sales to North American health club customers and stronger US consumer sales were more than offset by declines in other US distribution channels and in markets outside of North America.
Solid revenue growth over the past two years supports our longer term outlook for this segment.
When we combine the organization’s outstanding performance with positive demographic and (inaudible) trends in the fitness sector Life Fitness is well positioned if we continue to deliver excellent results.
The numerous product introductions which we had discussed with you throughout the year should begin to generate solid growth for this segment starting with the fourth quarter and continuing into next year.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew modestly where operating margins remained strong at 15.2%.
Sales in Bowling and Billiards declined 6% in the quarter.
In the retail business we are operating fewer US bowling centers versus last year’s quarter and equivalent center sales were lower in our European centers which partially offset a slight increase in US equivalents in our sales.
Bowling products also posted revenue declines in the quarter as European sales decreased by approximately 20%.
The segment’s operating earnings increased modestly as improved operating efficiencies were partially offset by lower sales.
Operating margins were higher by 80 basis points.
Now I will turn the call over to Peter for a closer look on our financials and then I will come back to give you an update on our perspective of 2012 and beyond.
Thanks Steve.
I would like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our third quarter of P&amp;L and also (inaudible) some forward looking data points.
Let me start with restructuring assets and impairment charges which approximately $28 million in the quarter with most of the charges beamed on cash.
Approximately $17 million of charges pertained to impairments associated with (inaudible) European and Asia Pacific footprints.
These charges mainly reflect the continued weakness inboard sport efficient products as well as weak powerboat demand in Europe and certain Asia pacific regions.
We also recorded about $8 million of charges associated with the decision to close our Knoxville facility consolidated cruiser manufacturing and exit Bayliner cruisers in the US and European markets.
These charges primarily include impairments severance and other costs.
Dusty will further elaborate on this consolidation action in his closing comments.
We anticipate that additional charges pertaining to our current year actions will be recognized in future periods.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we estimate charges into $5 million to $10 million range.
Therefore our current estimate for full year 2012 restructuring charges is in the $34 million to $39 million range or $0.37 to $0.42 for share.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense interest income and debt extinguishment losses was $23.8 million in the quarter a decrease of $6.3 million versus the same period in 2011.
Reduction was the result of lower losses on the early extinguishment of debt and the impact of lower debt balances.
In the third quarter we repurchased approximately $78 million of debt.
We plan to opportunistically repurchase additional debt during the fourth quarter which could result in an additional $20 million to $25 million in debt reduction and extinguishment charges of approximately $3 million to $4 million.
Our estimated net interest expense for the year is approximately $79 million to $80 million.
This would result in a reduction in net interest expense of about $18 million to $19 million compared to 2011.
As a result of our debt reduction activities in the quarter our debt outstanding at the end of Q3 was $598 million.
As you can see from this table the [2.25 notes] due 2013 have been fully retired.
During the quarter foreign currency had less than 2% negative effect on our sales due to a stronger dollar versus certain currencies in key sales markets including the Euro.
Currency had a minimal impact on operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This does include the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect that currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-over-year earnings comparisons.
We estimate that currency will have a similar impact on full year sales and earnings unless exchange rates change significantly from current levels.
Our tax provision for the third quarter was $10.5 million compared to a negligible tax provision in the third quarter of 2011.
Our third quarter tax expense was comprised of foreign and state taxes as well as specific non-recurring charges from special tax items.
These non-recurring special tax items reduced our EPS by $0.02.
Our 2012 tax expense will continue to be comprised mainly of foreign and state income taxes as well as the effects of the recurring of the non-recurring special tax items.
We expect our overall 2012 effective tax rate to be approximately 20%.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement cash provided by operations in the first nine months was $107 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earning for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of $71 million.
Our current estimate for D&amp;A in 2012 is approximately $95 million.
Pension expense resulting from more defined benefit pension plans which are frozen totaled $18 million year-to-date compared to $24 million in the prior year.
In the first nine months the company made cash contributions to its plans of approximately $42 million.
We expect our 2012 pension expense to be approximately $24 million which is a decrease of $8 million from 2011.
In 2012 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of about $75 million to $80 million.
For the nine months primary working capital accounts were a use of cash and were comparable to 2011 levels.
Given the seasonality of sales in our marine businesses we are anticipating we will be lowering working capital in the fourth quarter especially from reductions and receivables.
Based on our current assumptions we currently believe that changes in working capital should result in a use of cash for the total year.
Capital spending in the first nine months was approximately $69 million.
Our 2012 plan includes approximately $115 million in capital expenditures.
The increase from 2011 primarily reflects amounts required to fund our growth initiatives.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures in 2012 were $19 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our Marine segments.
And so in summary we generated $60 million of free cash flow year-to-date which in addition to cash balances was used for debt retirement activity.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is the net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $276 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of $731 million.
I'll now turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding comments.
Thanks Peter.
Earlier this month we announced that our Bayliner boat ramp plans to refine it's North American and European product portfolio are focusing its core Bowrider and deckboat models.
As well as other deckboat craft types new to the brands such as jet boats.
The complexion of the global marine marketplace continues to evolve and it's our continuing challenge to adapt our brands models and technologies to best appeal for today’s boating consumers as well as the shifting global marine marketplace.
We believe this effort will solidify our position in the market and offer dealers and boaters a lot variety of choices and models.
Additionally Bayliner will make its Brazil operations as a center for its cruiser business but we will suspend the brands cruiser sales and production outside of South America.
We will continue to maintain our leadership position in the North American cruiser segment with our Sea Ray brand.
This strategic repositioning of Bayliner further reduces the need to maintain the Bow Group’s current cruiser production capacity in the United States particularly in view of the current market weakness for cruisers that I mentioned in my earlier comments.
As a result we will consolidate our US cruiser production for Sea Ray into our Palm Coast Florida and the Tennessee facilities.
This will be more efficient and still allowed us to retaining capacity for the three times our current worldwide cruiser demand enabling us to adequately increase production when the market improves.
As a result of this consolidation our cruiser plant in Knoxville Tennessee will seize production by the end of 2012.
We believe these actions will save approximately $10 million to $12 million a year once fully implemented.
We continue to be pleased with the progress we are making in our numerous growth initiatives which are underway throughout our entire organization.
These initiatives are important to our top line health in these difficult economic times.
Let me update you on four of the many initiatives on which we are investing and working.
Joystick piloting which in the past has many sterndrive power boats so easy to control will soon be available for our boats.
In fact this is an advanced system designed specifically for Mercury’s 250 and 300 horsepower Verado outboards.
It leverages our expertise from Mercedes on Axius Systems.
And we work on boats with twin triple or quad Mercury Verado 215 and 300 horsepower outboards.
Mercury expects the product to hit the market during the second this quarter of 2013 and it will be demonstrated at the Ft.
Lauderdale International Boat Show which was started today.
As we continue clockwise on this chart life fitness is introduced through the system of cardio technology which included the line of new products call Elevation Series with Discover Tablet console.
It is compatible with Android devices as well as with Apple operating systems and has method of robust swipe like a tablet.
As we showed some review at our foreign investor events earlier this year these products provide internet access with a virtual reality running landscapes as well as on demand entertainment like movies music videos and television series along with custom workout tracking.
Exercisers can access personal content like social media or music even e-mail movies and e-books.
It relate to new online product management like Fitness Connect.
Also with fitness facilities access and customize the look of the console screens and track the use of each product.
The published console software and open platform by its outside parties of our new programs that were directly on Life Fitness equipment making the possibility of new console programs endless.
Now going to bottom right Sea Ray recently introduced the 370 Venture.
The first Express Cruiser created specifically around outboard engine power rather than traditional sterndrive engine.
Reaction from our dealer network has been encouraging and the new configuration offered our designers more space and opportunity for a number of features not normally found in a cruiser this size; including a larger master berth and a main deck sunroom featuring a full length sun roof and oversized hall windows providing incredible interior light.
The bottom left Brunswick Boats are now being produced in Brazil.
Our new plant in Joinville Santa Catarina will produce Bayliner and Sea Ray boats and cruiser ranging from 23 to 41 feet.
The first boats made in Brazil are scheduled for delivery by the end of the month.
Brunswick recently made its debut at the important São Paulo Boat Show the largest in nautical event in Latin America where Boston Whaler joined Sea Ray and Bayliner and despite a wide variety of support boats and cruisers.
With our investment in Brazil we are now able to import boats with favorable importing VAT rates.
So as this picture shows we now have boats in our dealer showrooms around the country.
And finally I would like to conclude with a few comments regarding our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Our ability to continue to deliver on earnings growth will be the result of the successful execution of our strategic initiatives a few of which I just described.
Our current plan reflects the extremely varied set of geographic and product demand trends that have affected our topline performance thus far in 2012.
As a result of these factors we are targeting modest revenue growth for the full year.
Based upon our current view that the fourth quarter will reflect improving sales growth.
We continue to believe that as a result of cost reductions and improvements in operating efficiencies our targeted gross margin for 2012 will be approximately 24%.
And although our operating expenses will be higher we still anticipate a strong annual increase in operating earnings.
As a result we are increasing our estimate of 2012 diluted earnings for common share as adjusted to a range of $1.65 to $1.75 per share from $1.60 to $1.75 per share.
This last slide expresses our previous GAAP guidance on adjusted basis which we believe is useful in understanding the company's operating performance.
As you can see our current guidance for the full year has increased the bottom end of the range and (inaudible).
And with that we will now be pleased to take questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
I guess I wanted to maybe start by asking about the gross margin.
You have to go back an awful long time to find a quarter with a gross margin at this rate that you did in Q3.
And I am just wondering first if there are any unusual or less sustainable factors that might have benefited you this quarter? And then just looking at the full year gross margin guidance of 24% and implies flat to down Q4 I think on a gross margin basis with accelerating sales.
So I am wondering why you might not be able to do a little bit better than the 24% on a four year basis? We think we might do a little north of 24% Ed.
There is nothing strange if you will in our gross margin numbers.
But we are seeing and let's take Mercury as an example.
This is an indication of the cost structure we created throughout this company and what it can deliver once we begin to get volume.
And if we take a look up at Mercury in the third quarter we first have overcome the production issues we were having both with sterndrives and the ability to fulfill demand for our new 150 horsepower engine and 75 90 and 115 engines.
So when things like that begin to flow through this cost structure we're still recognizing the benefits of closing the Stillwater facility.
When you add all that together and you get volume in any of our businesses we're going to get great gross margin growth.
So we are comfortable with 24% and I am gong to have to admit to you it will probably ought to be a little north of 24% probably still have 24% in the first two numbers there will be a point some but they ought to be a little higher than what we are projecting here.
Okay thanks and then Dusty could you also address your Q3 market share performance.
I think your Boat retail sales globally moderated by just a couple of points but the market in the U.S.
anyway slowed I think by more than that especially in the big boat segments where your over index and then presumably Europe and the rest of the world were a little tougher this quarter.
So moving that 5% retail number seems pretty good relative to that; I am wondering if anything kind of stands out in terms of a driver what seem like an improved share trend at least relative to maybe Q2? Yes and then let me just go through everything we modestly would do places for a little weaker places for very strong edges just to get at by levels there.
As we're looking to run about 20 feet in our Sea Ray brand we de-emphasized focus there and what we have done there we have lost a little share there.
And the larger run about which go up to 30 feet we have had significant share growth there and that’s great focus of our team and I am really proud of what they have been doing.
In the cruiser and larger segment even though their market continues to decline and we have a lot of market share there we continued to grow that share.
And our outboard fiberglass were flattish and then in our aluminum business I just can’t pat our fellows on the back and up in that business we are having just remarkable unit growth and even though that part of the market is strong we continue to gain share across our brands there; primarily in fish boats and slight share gains in pontoon so that’s how the whole picture looks at.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you and guys thanks for just staying on task and on plan here.
A clarification question first if I may is the outboard backlog generally resolved or will that take you through the fourth quarter and may be into early first before that’s totally satisfied? I think it’s not totally satisfied; we continue to work it down and then it will take us through the end of the year and may be Tim as you say even in the first quarter to get it completely in that.
Okay.
And then from the perspective of what you are doing with Bayliner in the cruiser segment (inaudible) that’s going to be focused now on the cruiser part in Latin America Brazil in particular and then kind of going away in the U.S.
and Europe.
Is there anyway to say hey is this part we should take out account sales and again we’ve got a mix bag here; it’s not a clean thing like happened with the Sealine just totally getting out that.
Is there anything you can kind of give us directly as far as modeling going forward from that perspective? I wouldn’t worry about the modeling.
Okay enough said.
And then I guess from a broader question and then I will get back in queue here also.
The three scenarios that you outlined the base case and then to plus five and a base case and a plus five and a plus 10 scenario at the Miami Boat Show.
Given what's going on in Europe given the changes that you are making with the operating structure with the changes here in Bayliner anything you can kind of update us on as far as those the base scenario and the other two scenarios now? Yeah where nine months into a three year plan.
But as I am looking at as we look at right now Tim I would say we are somewhere between the base case and the 5% case.
Okay.
So overall your do scenarios and your views are still valid Dusty obviously some puts and takes to get there but those scenarios are still valid and then you are being between the base and the 5% case am I perceiving that correctly? Absolutely Tim.
That sort of stamps in our forehead; we’ve made a commitment and we’ve got our sleeve rolled up to the load.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Swartz from SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Maybe you could just talk about Europe in general kind of at a high level did you see any kind of incremental deceleration there or is it kind of hanging in there as it was in the second quarter at about down high teens 20%.
I don't think we followed any additional deceleration.
You know as I believe it used to look ugly.
And as we are sitting here right now we don't see anything in the near term that's going to change Mike.
Also in the press release you go after some of the longer term investments that you've been making in the engine business.
Could you maybe flush those out a little more than give us an idea when we should begin to see those investments I guess come to life.
I don't want to give away too much companion of information.
So let me try to put it into (inaudible).
Firstly we have a fair bit of new product coming to the market in ’14.
But we also are expecting continued increase in demand especially in outboard product.
So we have been making investment as we speak even in improving our capacity as we work in ’13 and then you’ll see a fair bit product come to the marketplace in ’14.
And in ’13 and ’14 and perhaps even in ’15 we are going to continue to invest the increased capacity.
So we've got a lot to get invested up at Mercury.
We've got a great engineering team great R&amp;D team up there good operations but they’ve got a lot coming in and a lot to get done and it’s a business that's performing really well in this marketplace and it’s a place we want to continue to invest significantly.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Couple of quick questions here you touched on third quarter worldwide you had that 5% demand increase from a unit perspective wholesale shipments were only up 1% you may have touched on this but I just wanted to clarify here how should we think about that delta for the fourth quarter if I recall correctly you increased your base line inventory in last year’s fourth quarter on some of the aluminum boats and outboard engines should the wholesale and retail be the same in the fourth quarter should wholesale maybe be a little bit ahead of retail obviously you are facing a tough comp.
How should I think about that? We are going to bring wholesale and retail much closer in line in fourth quarter and that will be its frankly a (inaudible) in our aluminum business which is doing really well.
It’s going to have to get pretty well cranked up in the fourth quarter.
In the fiber glass business in which we see all the number game continues to suffer from our overall market decline but we will ensure that our wholesale shipments are more closely matching retail in the fourth quarter.
And then along those same lines $1.81 in adjusted earnings through three quarters.
The guidance is $1.65 to $1.75 so that basically assumes a decline of $0.06 to $0.16 for the fourth quarter.
Coming out of second quarter there was some hope that you might be able to breakeven in the fourth quarter.
Are you backing off of that or is it more sort of like the gross margin you would like to be able to get there but you are being conservative here.
Well I think realistically we're backing off a little.
We lost $0.30 on an adjusted basis in the fourth quarter last year.
We were obviously kind of kick the heck out of it but as we sat here and watch the economic difficulties around the world everybody is sort of holding their breath waiting for this election to be over and what's going to happen afterward.
We paired back our view a little bit of what we're going to be able to do in the fourth quarter and we think that’s the responsible thing to do right now.
The real key always James that drives us is ensuring that we have the appropriate level of inventory in the field to match the market place.
And again as we're looking at the market place (inaudible) right now.
So we're going to act prudently in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
So first just wonder since I have some questions on Mercury.
I mean it's just hard not to turn to look at the margins that you put up the last couple of quarters and without inferring that there should be some potentially fairly significant upside to what you laid out in the three year plan for that division.
So at this point would you say Mercury is outperforming your expectations or is it maybe better to think about this that you expect some significant margin dilution from ramping in to whether diesel initiatives or non-Marine verticals that would prevent margins from continuing to improve as volume increased? Here is a way to think about it as.
I think it's fair to say Mercury is from a financial standpoint better than perhaps we’ve plan but our folks there are responding magnificently to a different market place that we envisioned.
This mix has changed dramatically and we were talking in Miami Jimmy we were thinking as a market increased it would be the sort of increase that would pull all product type through relatively equally and that’s just not what’s happened.
So as a result yes mercury has got incredible demand for its outboard product.
We have been taking share with the new product so from a financial standpoint yes a little bit driven by marketplace adjustment.
But as we look across the whole company of course that also has an impact on our boat business because we have seen the mix to be different so as we look at our total look at what we think we can do in 2014 we have to balance those two.
Okay that’s helpful and staying on the boat side and then want to deliver your pipeline management strategy but I am just I guess I am surprised you didn’t ship a little bit more into the dealer pipeline given the trends you have seen at retail or even adjusting for kind of mix issues can you just talk about the rationale there either in terms of conservatives among your end or lack of appetite from your dealers versus may be some capacity issues on the aluminum side?  Frankly it’s all for you there.
As dealers sit in and look at all the economic conditions and uncertainly in the political environment that everyone else they want to be careful.
We want to be careful because we see all that our sales and we therefore don’t want to overload dealers.
And we always have a bit of capacity issues as we do model changeover in our plants in third quarter so many at all that we are comfortable with where the pipeline is but as we did say.
We increased wholesale fairly dramatically and our pipeline is still down so we got some work to do in order to get our dealers ready for the next model in Europe the next selling seat.
Okay and just last one from me if I can just be a little bit new sided of the revenue growth implication for Q4 obviously that the strongest of the year.
Can you maybe just walk through your segments ranking them and in terms of kind of where you expect the strong growth on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter? Can I sort of do it this way? Again that might be a little more details giving than I am liking about.
Here’s how we are thinking about it.
In the engine business you know we have addressed work hard to address capacity bottlenecks in our outboard business.
and we are really working now to satisfy backlog of pent up demand and our new four stroke and the 75 91 50 and we think there is continued growth on top of that has been in the outboard and the fishing boat both are aluminum and fiberglass and the (inaudible) segments.
As we look over at our fitness business we got incredible amount of new product that will begin to sell and delivered the market place this quarter.
And we got our new Discover counsel the Synergy 360 products that we have talked about the new lifecycle [GX] and our new elevation series cardio product are all going to be flowing into the market place very differently in the fourth quarter versus what we have done in the past.
And as we look at our bowling business we've got a nice international bowling capital equipment backlog which we are going to have to satisfy in the fourth quarter and then as we look at the boat business we believe there is going to be favorable comparisons in our outboard fishing and outboard fiber glass businesses in the fourth quarter.
So without giving you any percentages it’s just generally across the board of course some will be higher than others but we've got a nice even view toward how we are going to be able to increase in the fourth quarter.
That's very helpful.
Thanks for the color and great execution as always it has been.
Well again I would say that the people you are talking to have little to do with the great execution.
I appreciate you saying that.
A lot of our employees listen to this and thank you for mentioning it.
Your next question comes from the line of Rommel Dionisio from Wedbush Securities.
Please proceed.
Just on the just looking at the portfolio of both brands the way you have them set up today even after this Bayliner restructuring should these market trends continue do you give some thought as to what to do with the rest of the cruiser business I mean you still got the (inaudible) business and so forth is there or are you sort of just position that business to see even in the case of the recovery of that market to be prepared to have the capacity to take advantage of that?  No we are in the cruiser business.
It has been one of the real center pieces of our Sea Ray brand.
We continue to gain share with that brand even in declining market.
We are comfortable and assured that the cruiser market will ultimately return.
We are continuing to invest in new models there.
So we are solidly into cruiser business and we are not going to getting now but we have made a decision.
Our Sea Ray brands what’s really carrying the water in that segment and we want to get that brand position to continue to do well in the future.
So we will not ever be adjusting our portfolio to get out of that.
And one quick follow-up if I may with continued weakness in your I realized of last question prior conference calls but just with continued weakness in Europe could you just give us an update on the state of dealer health of your dealers in the European market if they are still viable still hanging in there? Generally their health is good.
We went through some tough times with some dealers in Scandinavia interestingly Greece Southern Europe but as we look across the dealer network and look at outstandings with them etcetera.
They are quite healthy.
It’s a bit like the United States; I can just give one more piece of color.
Sure.
Once you get through the real shock of how far things can drop and the weaker dealers fail then what you have are there are just some great dealers who are great small business people who begin to make the adjustments they need to make in order to do well and I think that's what we are seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
Dusty would you comment on the used boat market especially any trends in the used boat prices?  First the used boat market continues to be a healthy part of the industry.
We continue to hear especially for instance in the cruiser segment.
If a good used cruiser comes in the marketplace it sells immediately.
But what's been interesting to know is one would normally expect in that sort of environment that perhaps used crossing would (inaudible) between the historical gap between new and used and we haven't really seen that.
And we don’t sell or day used product but this is anecdotally in discussions with our dealer network and that is consistent with the research we've done as cruiser owners who tell us we're continuing to boat we are going new one we feel better about the economy and our personal situation and the only treasure we want to do is we think we're getting a good deal.
So they are very educated buyers they’re great boaters they understand the marketplace well and they got to have that good deal and demand that the good deal is one that maintains what they view is the historical spread between.
And as a follow-up could you characterize the general loan terms of these small boat versus a large boat just in terms of the duration of a typical loan? I think they’re generally about five years to seven years.
It doesn’t necessarily get longer in a cruiser segment for example? Yeah it would.
It could go up to 15.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
In the fitness segment can you talk about the other US distribution channels that saw declines? What were those? And then in the club channel how is that performing do you see any deceleration of growth in the club channel? Thanks.
The declines where in military and hospitality.
In the club market there are some really great club owners who are doing some great things that our customers and we continue to see those guys growing.
Okay good and the 5% increase in global retail demand in the third quarter pardon me if I missed it but did you break that out or can you break that up between the US and international?  We didn’t and it’s not something we would care to do.
Okay.
And then may be…   Though I did described that we thought market share changes had been in the US earlier.
Okay and that’s in units do you have a dollar number for that retail demand growth?   No.
And you have a follow-up question from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Just a follow-up on the fitness question.
Do you think that the slowing that you saw in Q3 is this just really a function of comparisons and may be some timing around new products or do you sort of see any kind of macroeconomic impact on that business? I am just trying to test in your conviction around putting up mid-to-high single-digit type of top line growth in that business going forward over the next year or two?  The former not the later.
Your next question comes from the line of Carla Casella from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
I just wanted to ask about your capital structure would you considering taking out your 11.25 bond given that you guys have enough liquidity to do so and given the pricey coupon?   The 11.25 are out to 2013s the 2016s it is still economically not in our best interest not in our shareholders’ best interest to take them out at this time.
The call expense would exceed the benefits we would get from refinancing them at this time.
Interest rates would have to go up considerably for to it had been a bad decision for us to wait as we expect to do until the some point year.
Last question comes from line of (inaudible).
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Thanks for getting me in under the wire here.
Fantastic job let me start with that.
I have a question about big comments that you made today and have made overtime about investments and growth and all of directors comments particularly to the engine side of the business and I guess some of the boat side of the business let’s call it marine.
Can you talk about the distribution of the investments from two particular advantages? Investments and innovation to kind of grow new markets or to take market share as some of the existing aggregate demand may kind of go away for the foreseeable future versus investments in process such that we retain some of the high operating margins that we are seeing currently that is my first question and now one for Peter.
Peter if you can give us any update on your discussions with the rating agencies maybe some type of a glide path to the investment grade rating.
Thank you.
Looking at an investment up there you know I'm probably not smart enough to around quite the way you have and the assumptions we are making of that is that we've retained the (inaudible) that we have and if we bring new product in that (inaudible) we actually expect the margins to get better on that product.
But what's the great thing (inaudible) is that we've got into the four stroke engines is (inaudible) that off the four stroke (inaudible) going to have two strokes and therefore Mercury would always go through market (inaudible).
So what we are doing now is that really great (inaudible) so we are going to see now (inaudible) and then with that we are getting better from an operating standpoint (inaudible) kind of prospect and you add all that up (inaudible) ability to maintain margins and (inaudible).
On that rating agencies (inaudible).
Alright ladies and gentlemen at this time we would like to turn the call back to Dustan McCoy for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you ma’am.
As always we appreciate all the interest the great questions we get and with that we are going to sign off and go back to work.
We are living in a tough world and we've got our hands full but we are going to keep delivering what we've been saying we will.
So thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation's 2012 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded and if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
You may proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; Peter Hamilton CFO; and Bill Metzger our Treasurer.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in the presentation as well as in the Supplemental Information Sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
Finally earlier this month we announced our intention to sell the Hatteras and CABO businesses.
Beginning with this earnings release the results of Hatteras and CABO which were previously in the Boat segment are now being reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dustan McCoy.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to start with an overview of our 2012 results.
2012 we successfully navigated through extreme variability in markets and business conditions.
U.S.
marine market began a recovery but the recovery is a historically unique one based only on outboard product our larger sterndrive inboard product continues to decline.
Excellent sales growth was achieved in all regions for Europe where sales excluding Sealine climbed a remarkable 15%.
With these conditions we're proud that our results in 2012 represent the third consecutive year of strong improvement in operating earnings and net earnings.
Operating earnings and diluted earnings per common share as adjusted increased by 23% and 54% respectively for the year.
In addition increased earnings contribute to the continued generation of solid free cash flow.
As a result we made significant progress in improving our balance sheet by reducing debt balances by $121 million which contributed to a $14 million reduction in interest expense.
Over the past several years our entire organization has done an excellent job of executing our business plan and [indiscernible] 2012 results and the strategic [indiscernible] which we are [indiscernible] providing a solid platform for further improvement in results.
Our 2013 EPS guidance of $2.20 to $2.45 targets another year of continued growth in earnings and shareholder value.
Our sales in 2012 increased by 1%.
If we exclude sales from the Sealine brand divested in 2011 our sales increased by 2%.
Our full year top line was significantly affected by revenue declines experienced in our ongoing European businesses.
2012 sales to Europe declined by $84 million or 15%.
Revenue growth in the U.S.
and Rest of World however reflected solid growth and was in line with our original growth expectations for the consolidated company.
Europe now represents about 13% of our total sales as a result of the declines in revenue.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $290 million for the year an increase of 23% compared to 2011.
All of our operating segments reported improvements for the year.
Operating margins x charges increased by 140 basis points to 7.8%.
This important metric represents 150 basis point improvement over the operating margin recorded in 2006 the year in which the company reported almost $2 billion more in annual revenues and the U.S.
powerboat and marine industry was almost double today's volume.
2012 net earnings were $1.59 per share including $0.28 of restructuring charges $0.18 of losses on debt retirement and $0.04 of charges from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share were $2.09 per share.
This compares to 2011 net earnings of $0.98 per share in the prior year which included $0.24 of restructuring charges $0.21 of losses on debt retirements and a $0.07 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items 2011's earnings per share were $1.36.
Therefore our adjusted 2012 EPS of $2.09 increased by $0.73 or 54%.
If we combine both continuing and discontinued operations on an adjusted basis EPS was $1.77 for the year.
This amount represents the EPS that compares to our previous guidance for full year of 2012 from $1.65 to $1.75.
Turning now to the fourth quarter.
Sales grew by 9% with all of our segments reporting increases.
Sales of our European businesses declined but only by $3 million in the quarter.
I'll comment in a few moments about some of the major factors that affected our topline during the quarter.
Adjusted operating earnings was $17.5 million for the quarter an increase of $26.7 million compared to 2011.
Operating margins x charges increased by 330 basis points to 2.1%.
This increase in operating earnings reflects strong sales growth and gross margin improvements partially offset by a modest increase in operating expenses.
The net loss for the quarter was $0.18 per share including $0.11 of charges for restructuring $0.05 of losses on debt retirements and $0.04 of losses from special tax items.
Therefore excluding these items our diluted earnings per share as adjusted equaled $0.02 per share.
This compares to a net loss of $0.28 per share in the prior year which included $0.04 of charges for restructuring $0.03 of losses on debt retirements and a $0.05 benefit from special tax items.
Again excluding these items 2011's loss per share equaled $0.26.
In summary our adjusted EPS increased by $0.28.
Now let's turn to operating segments.
If we start with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective fourth quarter sales to U.S.
markets were up 13% and Rest of World sales were up 7% year-over-year.
Sales from Mercury's European customers decreased 1%.
In the aggregate Mercury sales increased 12% for the quarter.
U.S.
sales growth was led by strength in outboard engines and in parts and accessories.
Rest of World experienced solid growth in all major product categories.
In Europe difficult economic conditions had only a modest negative impact as compared to previous quarters.
From a product category perspective sales in our U.S.
outboard engine business delivered strong growth reflecting a healthy aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat marketplace.
Strong demand continued for our new 150 FourStroke Verado engine family and engines in the 75 90 and 115-horsepower range.
Gains in the U.S.
outboard sales were partially offset by lower sales in Europe.
Our Rest of World markets were stable.
Unfavorable global demand trends continue to affect revenues from sterndrive engines although our sales in the quarter were higher than the prior year.
Mercury's parts and accessories businesses reported strong sales increases in the United States and Rest of World markets reflecting stable boating participation new product launches and market share gains.
Record annual sales and earnings were achieved by Land 'N' Sea and Attwood.
Both of these organizations have done an excellent job of delivering outstanding products and services to a very demanding marine marketplace.
European P&amp;A experienced modest in the quarter however for the full year sales declined.
Mercury's adjusted operating earnings increased by approximately $8 million during the fourth quarter.
The quarter reflected strong improvements in sales and production in the outboard business continued solid performance in P&amp;A and an increase in sterndrive production.
The segment also benefited from cost-reduction activities and lower variable compensation expense partially offset by spending on growth initiatives.
Q4 operating margins excluding charges were 4.4% in the quarter and 12.5% for the full year.
2012 was another really outstanding year for the entire Mercury organization.
In our Boat segment Q4 revenues were up 17% compared to the prior period.
For the full year excluding the impact of Sealine revenues increased by 3%.
In the quarter our sales to Europe declined 16%.
Rest of World sales increased by 38% which includes the growth driven by our Brazil initiative.
In the U.S.
which represents about 2/3 of the segment strong wholesale shipments resulted in a 13% sales increase.
This increase primarily related to aluminum boat dealers increasing their pipeline levels in response to strong retail demand trends.
Now before we explore the increase in sales let's first take a look at U.S.
powerboat industry statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Incorporated to get a view of how retail demand is unfolding by boat category in the United States.
As you can see based on preliminary fourth quarter data aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat markets continued to demonstrate strong growth.
The fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat market decreased but at a slower rate than the previous quarter.
In SSI's industry report published in Soundings Trade Only fiberglass boats greater than 30 feet in length which represents about 50% of our fiberglass sterndrive inboard revenues were down 8% year-to-date.
Fiberglass boats smaller than 30 feet were down 2% year-to-date.
In 2012 global retail unit sales of Brunswick boats grew by approximately 7% global wholesale shipments increased by 3%.
Our dealers ended the year at 33 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis which is comparable to the weeks on hand the year earlier.
Pipelines for aluminum product are up over last year's level on a unit basis but weeks on hand determined on a trailing 12-month retail basis are down slightly as growth at retail has outpaced wholesale.
Assuming current global retail trends continue you would expect aluminum wholesale unit shipments to grow in parity with retail demand in 2013.
The pipelines for fiberglass sterndrive inboard product 24 feet and larger are down and continue at record low levels.
During 2012 dealers reduced their stocking levels in response to weak demand.
During the first half of 2013 our plan reflects the continuation of declines in large boat pipeline inventories as we and our dealers continue to respond to weak market conditions in this segment.
As a result our Boat group is likely to experience modest revenue declines in the first quarter.
We are staying [ph] in the market and working closely with our dealers on top line management it's important for 2 reasons.
Main pipelines will enable us to respond quickly to the market upturn we will eventually see.
In addition our product plan contemplates a significant volume of new product introductions and healthy pipelines facilitate the flow of this product to the market.
Boat segments' fourth quarter adjusted operating loss improved by $3.7 million when compared to the prior year.
A major factor driving the improvement was the increase in sales which was partially offset by investments made in our growth initiatives and the unfavorable change in product mix.
For the year the segment's adjusted operating loss was $7.2 million approximately a $12 million improvement from the prior year and a $64 million improvement from the adjusted operating loss in 2010.
Now let's take a look at our 2 recreational segments.
Sales of Life Fitness increased by 2% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
This increase reflected solid sales to the U.S.
health club customers and net gains in international markets which included continued sales weakness in Europe.
For the year sales were flat.
Excluding the impact of 2011's large order from one of our customer categories sales for Life Fitness increased by 3% in 2012.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter grew by $8 million.
The major factors driving this improvement were higher sales lower variable compensation and warranty expenses and improved operating efficiencies.
For the year the segment reporting an operating margin of 16.2%.
This is a record for Life Fitness.
Sales in Bowling &amp; Billiards increased 5% in the quarter.
In the retail business sales were flat in the quarter as increases in U.S.
equivalent center sales were offset by operating fewer United States bowling centers.
Bowling products posted strong revenue gains in the quarter and ended the year with a solid growth rate.
The segment's adjusted operating earnings increased by approximately $3 million during the quarter as well as the full year.
For the year the segment reported an adjusted operating margin of 9% which is a 120 basis point improvement compared to 2011 and a 310 basis point improvement over 2010.
These impressive gains in margin are the result of the outstanding efforts by the entire Bowling &amp; Billiards organization.
Now I'm going to turn the call over to Peter for a closer look at our financials.
Thanks very much Dusty.
I'd like to begin with an overview of certain items included in our fourth quarter financial statements.
I'll then turn the call over to Bill to comment on some forward-looking data points that support our 2013 outlook.
Let me start with restructuring exit and impairment charges from continuing operations which were $10.5 million in the quarter.
These charges mainly reflect consolidation actions taken during the quarter in the Boat segment and to a lesser extent previously announced actions in our Marine Engine segment.
Looking forward we currently estimate charges pertaining to actions taken in 2012 to be in the $5 million to $6 million range in 2013.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense and interest income was $14.6 million in the quarter a decrease of $2.1 million versus the same period in 2011.
The reduction was a result of lower debt balances.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately $25 million of the 11 1/4 notes due in 2016.
This resulted in the $4.4 million of debt extinguishment losses.
For the year net interest expense declined by $12.7 million compared to 2011.
Over the last 2 years we have lowered our net interest expense by $25.6 million.
As a result of our debt reduction activities in the quarter our debt outstanding at the end of 2012 was $572 million representing a $121 million reduction in 2012 and a $259 million reduction the past 2 years.
During the quarter foreign currency had less than a 1% negative effect on sales due to a stronger dollar versus certain currencies in key sales markets including the euro.
Currency had a minimal impact on fourth quarter operating earnings as compared to the prior year which reflected a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements.
This includes the impact of hedging activity which helps to moderate the effect that currency exchange rate fluctuations have on our year-over-year earnings comparisons.
The tax provision for the fourth quarter was $3.6 million compared to a benefit of $12.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our fourth quarter and full year tax expense was comprised of mostly foreign taxes as well as specific nonrecurring charges from special tax items.
These nonrecurring special tax items reduced our EPS by $0.04 both quarterly and year-to-date periods in 2012.
For the year our effective tax rate on a GAAP basis was slightly under 19%.
And if you exclude special tax items restructuring charges and losses on debt retirements from our pretax income our effective tax rate was 13.5%.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by continuing operations in 2012 was $184 million.
Some of the key items in this section of the cash flow statement include adjustments to earnings for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of $90 million.
Pension expense resulting from our defined benefit pension plans totaled $25 million in 2012 compared to $32 million in the prior year.
During the year the company made cash contributions to its plans of approximately $69 million.
For the full year primary working capital accounts were a use of cash.
This cash usage includes the impact of decisions to increase inventories in our Engine and Outboard Boat businesses in response to strong market demand and to meet our seasonal requirements.
Capital spending in 2012 was approximately $115 million.
This increase from 2011 primarily reflects amounts required to fund our growth initiatives.
Partially offsetting our capital expenditures in 2012 were $19 million of proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our Marine segments.
Total free cash flow from continuing operations totaled $90.2 million and if we exclude the cash outflow from discontinued operations total free cash flow for the year was 61 -- pardon me $64.1 million.
Now for the year we used free cash flow and cash from our balance sheet to reduce debt.
As a result cash and marketable securities ended the year at $429 million about $80 million lower than year-end 2011.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is a net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $273 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of $702 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill Metzger for some comments regarding the assumptions that we're using in connection with our 2013 guidance.
Thank you Peter.
I would like to take a few minutes to describe some of the key assumptions that support our 2013 guidance.
Let me start with those affecting the P&amp;L.
Our plan reflects a 3% to 5% revenue growth with all 4 segments reporting improvement in the year.
Dusty is going to describe to you in more detail on how anticipated market and product trends will impact our top line in 2013.
We are targeting to maintain gross margins of approximately 25%.
Gross margins increased by 150 basis points in 2012 reflecting improvements in all segments.
We believe we can maintain these strong margins in 2013 and we'll continue to explore opportunities to further expand them.
Operating expenses are projected to be higher in 2013 versus 2012 as we increase spending on growth initiatives.
SG&amp;A expenses are expected to increase modestly and R&amp;D expenses will increase in both dollars and as a percentage of sales.
Pension expense which affects both gross margin and operating expenses is projected to be lower by about $7 million.
We are planning for an effective tax rate in the range of 16% to 18% on an as adjusted earnings basis.
This estimated rate excludes the impact of one-time pretax charges which is debt extinguishment losses and restructuring charges along with any nonrecurring special tax adjustments.
As you may recall the company has substantially reserved its deferred tax assets due to being in a cumulative 3-year loss position in the United States and other jurisdictions.
It is possible that the company may be out of a cumulative 3-year loss position in 2013 and will be evaluating the need to continue to maintain these valuation reserves against the deferred tax assets.
The tax rate estimate for 2013 excludes the impact of any potential reversals that would be triggered by this change in accounting.
Regarding foreign currency our plan on a full year basis does not reflect any material impact on sales or earnings from changes in currency rates.
Now let's turn to our 2013 capital strategy which is consistent with the plans we have shared with you over the past several years.
Reducing outstanding debt continues to be a priority for the company with targeted debt reductions of $100 million to $125 million planned for the year.
This plan contemplates the retirement of our 2016 notes thereby eliminating the 11 1/4% coupon from our debt portfolio.
This retirement will be funded using the combination of cash and proceeds from a new debt offering and will substantially complete our planned debt reductions.
We expect net interest expense to be reduced by $13 million to $17 million excluding extinguishment losses of $25 million to $30 million.
The exact timing of retirements is one of the factors that will determine where we fall within these ranges.
Please note that since our guidance is on an as adjusted basis the exact amount of extinguishment losses will not affect our EPS guidance range.
In addition to debt retirement we plan to continue to make contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in the range of $50 million to $60 million in 2013.
Our operating results and capital strategy will allow us to continue to maintain healthy levels of liquidity although total cash balances will be reduced due to the planned debt retirements.
Now let me conclude with comments on some of the items that will impact our cash flow in 2013.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $95 million.
We expect capital expenditures to increase versus prior years as we fund our growth initiatives.
Our current plan reflects an amount that would approximate 3.5% to 4% of projected sales.
Our working capital performance will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions and with the seasonality of sales in our Marine businesses we anticipate using cash to fund working capital in the first quarter of the year and then generate cash from the liquidation of working capital over the remainder of the year.
This net activity is expected to reflect a use of cash for working capital for the full year in the range of $25 million to $50 million.
Despite higher spending levels and a usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate solid free cash flow for the full year.
I'll now turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding comments.
Thank you Bill.
Now that Bill's described many of the assumptions that underlie our 2013 plans I'm going to spend the remaining time describing our early perspectives on the global marketplace in which we compete.
How we plan to sustain our earnings growth in that marketplace.
In February of 2012 at our Investor Day in Miami we outlined a plan premised on the reality that the global economic and Marine market could continue to be challenging.
With this environment as our base case scenario we felt it was imperative that we develop both operational and financial strategies that would allow us to continue to increase shareholder value.
Operational plans were developed throughout the organization to grow our businesses by increasing market share developing new products and services that would expand our markets and pursuing specific regional opportunities throughout the global marketplace.
Despite the expense associated with these plans we knew we had to maintain our favorable cost position while exploring opportunities to improve operating efficiencies and further expand our margins.
Continued reduction in outstanding debt balances and a reduction in pension underfunding were also important parts of our overall plan.
2012 represented a successful step in achieving the goals and targets we presented in Miami and we're confident that we can continue our progress in 2013.
In the global Marine sector we expect to benefit from the continuing albeit very uneven recover in the overall U.S.
powerboat market.
Our 2013 plan reflects solid growth in the outboard categories following the double-digit growth rates experienced in 2012 and growth in 2011.
We also expect to once again benefit from growth in our Parts &amp; Accessories businesses given stable boat participation in an aging U.S.
boat fleet.
As you can see on this slide Mercury's outboard engine and P&amp;A businesses represent 85% or about $1.7 billion of the segment's total revenues.
Therefore our largest segment is well positioned for continued growth in 2013.
In addition to solid industry fundamentals Mercury's strong outboard product lineup including the award-winning 150 FourStroke engine as well as new and exciting products and technologies being featured at boat shows throughout the world should enable them to successfully compete in the global marketplace.
Although weak market conditions may continue to challenge our sterndrive category our plan is to grow this category in 2013 based on Mercury having the broadest offering in gasoline sterndrive engines combined with its progress in the global diesel segment.
The favorable trends affecting the outboard market will also benefit our boat segment.
Based on 2012 sales aluminum fiberglass outboard boats represent about 60% of the segment's total revenues and are well positioned for continued growth in 2013.
Our brands in these categories Boston Whaler Lund Lowe Crestliner Princecraft Harris Flotebote and Cypress Cay have done an excellent job of competing in the salt and freshwater fish markets as well as in the rapidly growing pontoon category.
The numerous product launches from these brands in the upcoming marine season will further enhance growth.
For example Boston Whaler's 270 Dauntless which is one of 4 new models Whaler will be highlighting at this year's Miami Boat Show.
That's on top of 5 new models they debuted last year.
The remaining 40% of the segment's revenues compete in the fiberglass sterndrive inboard market.
While the trends in these boats under 30 feet have been improving our plan assumes that the larger boat market will continue to experience weakness.
Actions to offset potential market weaknesses include new and exciting boats in the day boat [ph] category for example the recently introduced Bayliner Element and our entry into the jet boat category with our Sea Ray and Bayliner brands; enhanced and innovative products in the larger boat category including then new Sea Ray 510 and Sea Ray 370 Venture both award-winning boats.
And although it's in its early stages our Brazil initiative is making good progress in its first full season of competing in this major marine marketplace.
Positive health and fitness trends have positioned our Fitness business to continue to deliver excellent results.
The segment will benefit from the full year effects of 2012 product introductions such as the new Synrgy360 and Lifecycle GX as well as from the introduction of the Discover series cardio equipment in 2013.
We believe these products will drive higher demand from health clubs as they seek ways to differentiate themselves in the marketplace.
In addition to growth in the domestic club business we believe the U.S.
hospitality market will improve given the expected growth in revenue per available room.
The Life Fitness plan also reflects growth from emerging markets such as China Brazil and Russia while Europe remains a region that may continue to experience weakness.
In our Bowling retail business we'll benefit from increasing investments to modernize existing Brunswick centers while exploring new concepts and formats to drive sales in an evolving boiling retail market.
In addition we are planning for continued share gains in our Bowling products business as we introduce product enhancements and expand and improve worldwide distribution.
To sum it all up driven by the strength of our global brands and contributions from our growth initiatives we believe that a 3% to 5% revenue growth rate is achievable in 2013.
Our plan reflects that we maintain the strong gross margins achieved in 2012 and we'll continue to explore opportunities to further expand these margins.
Our organic growth platform will benefit from increased investments in capital projects in research and development programs along with the SG&amp;A to support them.
In addition despite these higher spending levels we plan to generate positive free cash flow as executed against our ongoing strategic financial objective of further lowering debt levels thereby reducing interest expense.
As a result our 2013 diluted earnings per common share as adjusted is expected to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.45 per share.
The midpoint of this range would represent a double-digit percent growth rate over the $2.09 earned in 2012.
Many of the new and exciting engine and boat products that I've just highlighted will be the focus at our meeting in Miami on February 14.
We should hopefully give you a sense of why we're excited about this upcoming marine season.
We're planning to have a total company Investor Day most likely in the fourth quarter of 2013 and we'll firm up our plans and communicate them on our next earnings call in April.
This concludes my formal remarks about the business.
But before we take your questions I want to make a couple of personal remarks.
Peter Hamilton is retiring in a little over a month and today's his last earnings call with us.
I know Peter is looking forward to retirement and improving on his already astounding golf handicap.
But we who have been privileged to work with Peter everyday are sending Peter into a well-earned retirement with a mixture of emotions.
We're happy for Peter and maybe a little envious.
However selfishly our sadness at not being able to interact with Peter everyday overwhelms our happiness for him.
Peter's wise and knowing he teaches everyday in a way that students that's all of us work with him that can learn without understanding we're being taught and made smarter and better.
Peter's decisive but his decisiveness is never overbearing or intrusive in others' decision-making space.
Peter's pretty tough.
He demands excellence and performance and doesn't mind ensuring we meet his standards.
His sense of humor is immense subtle and dry and he's kept us on an even keel many many times.
Finally he's a friend to all of us and we always miss friends when they move on.
Today is Bill Metzger's first earnings call.
Bill has a long and distinguished career and history at Brunswick even though he's still quite young.
He knows our business like no other CFO ever has on their first days in the seat.
He brings enormous intellect to our team and we had no doubt that he will push all of our thinking forward.
And importantly for all of us who will work with Bill day in and day out for many years to come he's a great human being who cares deeply about the success of Brunswick and all of his fellow employees.
So we're gaining a great asset and a friend who will ensure we continually improve.
Bill welcome to your new position.
We're glad to have you on board.
And with that we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ed Aaron RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dusty it sounds like you're still pretty cautious about the large fiberglass boat market.
Do you believe that that market's going to be down this year? Or do you think that it's reasonable to expect that it could kind of finally at least flatten out? It is reasonable that it could flatten out.
And to be honest Ed our planning is sort of down to flatten out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just based on your guidance kind of back into an incremental operating margin of something that's a little less than 20% including the benefits that you're going to be getting from the cruiser restructuring that you've done.
You've kind of talked in the past about leverage rate of more like 30% and is that differential -- is that entirely a reflection of investments that you plan to make this year? Or has there been any change to kind of variable leverage rate that you see in your business? Ed it's Peter.
We -- no we don't see any secular change in our leverage rate.
The 30% number that we cite from time to time is our variable contribution.
And after covering fixed expenses our models and our guidance that we gave in Miami tend to reflect about a 20% operating leverage number over time.
And so if our 2013 guidance is coalescing around there that's about normal I would say.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my last question then I'll pass it on.
I think you have a fair amount of more kind of product activity this year than in past years.
How would you suggest that we think about just kind of how much that changed in the level of new product introductions that could do for your topline growth rate in 2013? Ed we've included the impact of the new products in our 2013 topline guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gentlemen let me also offer my congratulations on the excellent year.
And Peter on a long distinguished career we'll miss you sir.
And Bill welcome aboard.
Let me take a step back Dusty I asked this in the last call.
But given now the light of 2012 given the divestiture that you've announced here with Hatteras and CABO which I think you had to do to get to your -- the things that you outlined in Miami.
But it appears now with your guidance for '13 the $2.45 is basically the high end of your base case scenario for Miami for 2014.
So now are you saying that you're pretty solidly in that plus 5% scenario which I think the Miami EPS for '14 would imply $2.70 to $3.20? No.
As I sit here today Tim I don't think we're into solidly the 5% in that guidance and let me tell you why.
The overall -- first one when we gave those numbers we focused on a couple of peg points.
First was the improvement in the global marine market.
And secondly was what we thought the world economies would look like as a way to judge our recreational businesses.
On a global basis growth in the marine markets was negligible in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry Dusty you're cutting out there some.
I don't know if it's connection or what.
As we look at global marine market growth in 2012 Tim it was negligible.
As we look at global marine market growth in 2013 we think it's more likely to be low single digits.
And then as we look at the global economy and its impact on our recreation businesses the global economy's playing out just about like we thought 2% GDP growth on a global basis.
So when I add all that up I'd say we're looking at to be between the base case and the 5% case and as we sit right now and look at markets that's what we're shooting at.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess maybe the components Dusty to get there I mean your base case for Mercury implied 10% to 11% op margins you posted a 12.5% here.
Boats yes clearly you've got a little more work to do to get there.
But Life Fitness you implied 12% to 15% and you posted a 16%.
So it would seem that engines are going to -- likely to continue to hold above that and exceed that maybe does Life Fitness get any competitive pressure or not? Are you still looking for that? And then I guess the other piece of that is what do you have specifically  baked in for Europe for 2013 overall? Let me do Europe first.
We're baking in flat.
LLC Research Division</strong> Flat for Europe okay.
Yes in 2013.
When we look at Fitness we believe 2013 will be another year of topline growth for Fitness.
They've really set a high margin for themselves in margins by their 2012 performance.
But we're pushing the Life Fitness organization to hang in there with margins and we'll see what they're able to do.
But I'm very comfortable that we're probably in the top end of the Miami investor forecast business margins.
Can I correct your number too Tim? That 10% to 11% that was our original Miami.
But subsequent to that when we did some restating in April we increased those margins to up to 11.5% Tim.
So at our current investor deck you have the restated Miami numbers for -- from our [indiscernible].
And Tim the only other thing I would mention from my end is that as you're looking at a run rate from '10 '11 '12 through '14 remember that it is distinctly possible that as we move from '13 to '14 the tax rate will move from the teens to something with a 3 in front of it.
So that will retard the stated EPS number in '14.
Yes the only other thing I would say is as we're looking around the organization the markets are not unfolding.
The marine market is clearly in recovery but it's in recovery in a way none of us had ever anticipated.
And when we spoke in February of last year we were thinking as the marine market grew we would see it grow proportionally across all segments.
What's happening now is -- it's unprecedented.
It's growing only in outboards and we're making the adjustments to that.
And I'm really really proud of the organizations and all the changes we're having to make in operating plan strategy production schedule on and on and on.
But our guys are doing a -- our men and women are doing a great job at it and I'm completely comfortable with how we're performing.
Your next question comes of the line of Jimmy Baker of B.
Riley Caris [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me start by offering my best wishes to Peter and his well-deserved retirement and also congratulations to Bill in his new role.
First you talked about under shipping retail demand again here in 2013 on the Boat side.
Can you just expand on that strategy a little? And is that specifically the case here domestically? Well first let's kind of chop up the Boat business.
We will not in aluminum -- or let's say in outboard-based product Jimmy be under shipping retail demand and we said in our prepared remarks that we expect that wholesale and retail to be on parity.
And as a result you will see the pipeline grow in outboard-based products but you'll see weeks on hand continue to come down.
So where we're under shipping retail is primarily in larger fiberglass products.
And the reason we're doing that is we are feeling the green shoots not seeing them yet but if one's out walking around in spring you feel the sun even though you don't see the shoots.
And we want to make sure that we're positioning those businesses to do well when the recovery comes and we know what the new product pipeline is looking like that what we have in all these product ranges and we want to be able to get all that product into the field as we're ready.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify I'm looking at Slide 21 here and it suggests that the growth rate in global wholesale shipments is going to be less than global retail shipments.
But I thought I just heard you mention that they would actually be at parity.
So am I missing something there? I said aluminum would be at parity.
And larger fiberglass will be down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then I just have one question that's maybe a little off the radar.
I'm hoping you can explain the decline in intercompany sales from Mercury to your Boat brands that's the trend that's really emerged this year was particularly pronounced in Q4.
I'm just having a little difficulty reconciling that understanding that your P&amp;A business is still so strong.
But your wholesale activity in both brands that carry the higher ASP Mercury engines obviously hasn't been so strong.
So why is growth in marine eliminations drastically outpacing growth in either of your Marine businesses? Jimmy I'll take that.
I would attribute that to the success that our outboard businesses have had in the marketplace and taking more product.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your outdoor Boat brands that is? The fiberglass sales are have been weaker.
On the outboard side those businesses have been performing very well in taking share.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly just a housekeeping item.
Did you give the sales contribution from discontinued items here in Q4? That's not in the presentation or in the release.
LLC Research Division</strong> And not something you're willing to provide? Not something we have available right here.
Your next question comes the line of James Hardiman.
Congrats on another great year.
Let me follow up on I think it was Tim's line of questioning sort of circling back to the longer-term guidance you guys gave back in Miami but focusing maybe a little bit on the high-end let's get hopeful here for a second.
X CABO and Hatteras and I guess even Bayliner I think the common perception is that by getting rid of the 2 yacht brands that you're sacrificing a bit of high-end upside in terms of earnings to get better earnings power today.
Can you sort of talk about what this does to your upside and maybe some initiatives taking place in some of your -- some of the boat brands that you're holding on to that might replace some of that -- the higher end of your portfolio? Clearly if one just does arithmetic you'd say yes we lose some upside.
But we're not actually thinking that way.
Those businesses as '12 progressed and as we look forward are tough businesses to be in.
They're in segments of the market that have continued to decline have great competitors and all the sort of things James that we have looked at over the years when we make a decision to get out.
But as we've relooked at our businesses and begin to -- and continue to focus on the ability to grow in Brazil all of the new market introductions and new product introductions that we have we're not on a Brunswick-wide basis varying our outlook for what we can do versus our projections in February of last year.
And as I was mentioning with Tim it's not unfolding as we had planned but that's okay.
We're adjusting as we need to and we'll do better in engines.
The Boat business will not over time be materially different than we've laid out even though we don't have Hatteras and CABO.
And Fitness continues to do well both on topline and margins.
So we're comfortable with the guidance we gave.
We're pretty relaxed that we're going to be able to hit it.
And it's just all sleeves rolled up here and working hard to perform well.
Great and just a quick housekeeping question here.
Fitness segment margins were fantastic.
I think they were north of 19%.
Was there something special going on there? I'm assuming we can't even come close to rolling that forward.
Was there something in particular in the quarter that I should be thinking about there? Well first I wouldn't plan to roll them forward.
Our competition is not going to like margins that stay near 20%.
And in terms of what they were able to do in the quarter I think it was just really great expense control as they were finishing out the year.
Got it.
And then Dusty just bigger picture here.
As you talk to dealers and customers maybe I don't know if you've gone to a whole lot of boat shows as of late but we've gotten past the fiscal cliff we've at least put off the debt ceiling.
Taxes have gone up but maybe not as much as a lot of people were expecting at least for that 200k to 500k income group.
Are you seeing the beginnings of maybe some better confidence among the dealers that you're talking to whether in person or at the show that at the end of the day this is a consumer-confidence business? What's -- I understand that your guidance has to be somewhat conservative.
But are you hearing anything incremental from the people that you talk to in the channel that gives you some hope going forward? I'll say it this way.
First shows are not a good example of anything although the shows are unfolding exactly as the way we've guided for the rest of the year.
As we're out talking to dealers the folks who have outboard product continue to be incredibly upbeat and believe they're going to have a great year.
As we look at larger product the real world is as we've looked at how those buyers are going to come back we've always said there are several things that are going to impact them.
First they need to know the way out of tongue-in-cheek described it is what their role in deficit reduction is going to be.
And while individual income tax rates have presumably been set it's also clear the administration has said "We're not through raising taxes." And it's even said in some cases "And we've already done all the spending cuts we want to do." So a lot of our customers for this type of product are business owners and they're going to wait to see how that unfolds.
They need unemployment or feel that it's important that unemployment is on a steady decline.
We've not yet seen that.
They need their investments to be improving we are seeing that.
They need the value of their real estate to begin a steady improvement.
And it feels like to me it's sort of patchy.
So when we add all that up there's a lot more positive today than there was this time last year.
But our judgment is and as I talk to our dealers they're still under pressure on that.
Then we just want to be very smart and make sure we keep our toplines very healthy and our dealers in a positon to move forward.
Very helpful.
And I just want to reiterate Peter great working with you safe travels and enjoy your post-Brunswick life.
And Bill welcome to the team.
Your next question comes the line of Michael Swartz of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to touch on gross margin here.
And I guess the commentary you kind of -- consistent gross margin in '13 with 2012.
And I guess I'm kind of surprised with that given the leverage in the business and the cost-cutting.
I mean could you maybe outline some of the puts and takes to that outlook? Well the things that will enhance margin are some of the investments that we continue to make in our manufacturing structure some of which is embedded in the increased capital spending as a percentage of sales.
We continue to work on efficiency gains in our factories throughout the company.
And that is taking place globally as well as in the U.S.
The things that will push against that will be continued pricing pressure from our competition.
And the things that will be pushing against that are the inevitable cost increases that come from some of the raw materials that we have to put into the product.
So when we put all that together and run it through our system we think that the numbers that we gave are achievable.
And that's what we expect to hit.
I think covered too is if you look at our 2014 guidance and then back up to '12 we made a massive leap forward in our ability to produce gross margin.
And I think we need to think about 2013 as with all the pressures that Peter has said especially to reduce margins as the year to really dig in to solidify those margins to make sure we're comfortable they're really solidly entrenched in our business psyche as we go forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one final question it looks like in the fourth quarter -- just kind of backing it out to the press release it looks like the U.S.
Fitness business was down year-over-year.
Could you explain what that was? Was there any kind of order shift into the first quarter or am I missing something? It was down just a bit.
And one of the things that's been going on is there's been a consolidation in the club market.
And fourth quarters are times a lot of deals get completed et cetera.
And as those happen there's not reordering.
And that's all getting completed and we're comfortable that market will easily go back into growth mode in '13.
And we're also at Fitness introducing a lot of product and it could well be that the clubs are waiting to make sure that they get the new product.
Your next question comes from Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Dusty as you know we like to focus on the used boat market somewhat.
Could you give us an update on trends in that at the dealer level and especially any used boat price information you may have? We continue to be told by the dealer network that if they can get their hands on a good used boat it's a happy day and they sell it quickly.
We have not seen and we've talked about this before however used boat pricing to continue to increase except in certain segments in and in around certain brands.
I mentioned Boston Whaler in the past as an example for our brands.
So we continue Craig to see no difference in the used boat market than we've seen over the past year actually.
And it continues to be something our dealers focus on because it's good form if they can find them.
But again the availability of used boats continues to be an issue.
Research Division</strong> And is there any dispersion between the low-end and the high-end when you look at the used boat market and the appetite for consumers who already own a boat to trade up? We see it more in the high end.
But we talked about  new volumes are down but boaters as a category like to have a different boat and a bigger boat.
And the way they're achieving that today is they're buying used rather than new.
Research Division</strong> And with respect to margin and your margin outlook to what extent does the mix of boats and your decision on the high-end affect your margin outlook if at all in terms of incremental margin? Obviously the mix pushes down margin.
And that's something we're dealing with but we're pretty darn happy with the way we're pushing margins upward even though the mix is dramatically different than anything we've seen before.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Starr from Nuveen Asset Management.
I just have a couple of questions.
One can you just talk about with Sandy people getting their insurance checks have you seen any actual conversion of people buying boats in those areas where people have lost boats in Sandy? I mean a higher increase in boats and sales? Here's what we're seeing with Sandy.
Let's divide the Sandy impact into 2 buckets Laura.
First is boats damaged but not destroyed or lost.
The -- those boaters are out looking for dealers who have the ability to perform repair and service.
And a lot of dealers' facilities were wiped away or severely damaged.
But those dealers who had the ability to do repair and service are having a great business run right now and view that as continuing through '13.
For the person who's lost their boat and has received an insurance check it looks like it's going to play out like all big hurricane events have.
And that is upon receipt of that check the owner's first look at his or her life is they need their home taken care of then their car then all of their surroundings and then eventually they turn back to boating.
And we're seeing that play out.
I think the other thing what we saw was marinas and places to boat underwent very severe damage in Sandy and therefore even people who'd gotten their check and might want a new boat are having to find a place -- a marina they can even boat from.
So our view is that on the new boat side this is not going to be a big 2013 event.
And we'll see people begin to buy new boats whose boats were destroyed more in '14 '15 and that would be consistent with what we've all experienced in 2005 on the Gulf Coast with the big hurricanes there.
And then could you talk -- you didn't mention on the call about some of the things -- initiatives you're doing for international development.
I mean off and on you've talked about different places in the world where you're trying to expand either the engine part or boat sales.
Could you just give us an update on what's new there? Well first if you look at our sales number once we back out Europe we're having great sales increases all around the world.
The biggest single initiative is our entrée into the Brazilian boat market through Bayliner and Sea Ray in the cruiser category.
Our plant is up and running.
We had the big official opening.
We're beginning to fill the dealer network with boats not only -- not so much frankly is produced there because we're just getting up and running but boats we've been able to import with all the import help we got by being a builder in the country.
So that is moving right as we thought.
And it's a big initiative and we'll really begin to see much more of an impact from that initiative in my judgment more in the '14 range than even in '13.
But it's right on track.
And that -- given their geography that's more of a -- it's year-round sales right? I mean so they -- it shouldn't be that seasonal? Is that correct in Brazil? It depends on where we are in the country yes.
But it's -- the further south you go it's a little less seasonal.
I mean it's a little more seasonal than for instance north.
Brazil's a darn big country that covers a lot in latitude.
Okay.
And then my final question is with all the divestitures you've done do you -- what do you actually have in terms of like higher-end boats that you can sell here domestically if the market really does begin to come back? I mean...
Well let's define the higher-end boat by category.
First as we look at larger sterndrive inboard product it's marquee and Sea Ray -- I mean I'm sorry Meridian and Sea Ray.
Those greater than 30 feet? Are any of them greater than 30 feet? Oh yes.
Sure sure.
We go well up to 60 feet in those categories and we'll be over time bringing product out even larger than that.
And are some of them up to $1 million? Yes.
Easily.
Then if we go to fiberglass outboard products Whaler in our judgment is the premium brand in that category.
I would say there's one other brand that looks and feels as premium as Whaler.
And we continue to get larger in that category.
We have a 37 outrage in that category and you'll see us bringing even larger boats out in the Whaler category.
And then even if you want to go down to aluminum products in our line brand our pro [indiscernible] are the premium brand in the marketplace and bringing a lot of revenue dollars per boat.
And they're very popular though for people who are serious fishermen.
And then if we go to the pontoon category again our Harris brand is a luxury brand in that category.
And we've just come out with a new product there that I actually was doing an interview with a Dow Jones reporter and we did it on that boat.
And it's the most premium pontoon I've ever seen and we couldn't finish the interview because there were so many people wanting to get on it.
Because we think of premium in the boat market our judgment is that we have premium brands who can cover premium categories in every type of boat.
At this time we would like to turn the call back over to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Have a great one.
As always we thank everyone for joining us.
We appreciate the great questions we get.
As I hope you felt from the call we're really proud of '12 we're confident in '13 and are very relaxed that all the targets we set for '14 are well within reach.
And as we said we just got to roll up our sleeves and keep doing what we've been doing and work hard.
And again I want to thank Peter for everything he's done for this company.
Welcome Bill.
And as we go through this change the one thing about Brunswick is we've been around 168 years.
We're pretty good at making change and going through evolution.
So we'll get through this.
Plus the 15 plus thousand people who work at Brunswick are what makes the CFO look good and the CFO looks good.
And nothing has changed there indeed.
Everything is getting better.
So thank you all for your kind comments and I will be watching the company very carefully.
And I will not be traveling anywhere because I want to be close to the headquarters to make sure that everything continues on the Miami guidance track.
Thank you all.
Peter threatens by the way he's going to come and have lunch everyday and quiz us.
We'll see how he does.
Thanks everyone.
We appreciate it.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation's 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at any time.
I'd now like to introduce Mr.
Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the risk factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the Supplemental Information Sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's release.
I would also like to remind you that as a result of our announced intention to sell the Hatteras and CABO businesses the results of Hatteras and CABO continue to be reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
The figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start the day with an overview of our first quarter results.
Revenue in the quarter increased 4% and was led by growth in outboard marine products marine parts and accessories and fitness equipment partially offset by declines in fiberglass sterndrive inboard products and in our bowling businesses.
Gross margin increased by 150 basis points mainly due to reduction activities and improved operating efficiencies including a solid improvement in the Engine segment which also benefited from the absence of last year's sterndrive production inefficiencies and continued growth in demand for outboards in the 75- to 150-horsepower range.
Operating expenses increased by 2%.
If we exclude a $5.5 million gain on sale of real estate which was included in our initial guidance operating expenses would have been up 6%.
Research and development expenses were up 13% as we continue to invest in programs that support our numerous growth initiatives.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 26% versus last year.
Continuing down the P&amp;L.
Net interest expense excluding debt extinguishment losses was reduced by $3.1 million and a lower effective tax rate also improved our adjusted net earnings by almost $3 million.
Diluted EPS as adjusted increased by 46%.
As a result of our solid first quarter performance in abnormal market conditions and a lower-than-expected tax rate we're increasing our estimated 2013 diluted earnings per share as adjusted to a range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
As I mentioned sales in the quarter grew by 4%.
Solid top line improvement was experienced in our Marine Engine and Fitness segments.
This growth was partially offset by declines in our Boat and Bowling segments.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 7%.
Sales to Europe declined by 4% and Rest of the World revenues were flat versus the prior year.
Adjusted operating earnings were $95.5 million for the quarter an increase of $20 million or 26% compared to 2012.
Operating margins x charges increased by 170 basis points to 9.6%.
The increase in operating earnings reflect solid sales growth and gross margin improvements partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
Net earnings for the quarter were $0.59 a share including $0.05 a share of charges for restructuring and a $0.12 of losses from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share as adjusted equaled $0.76 per share.
This compares to net earnings of $0.51 per share in the prior year which included a $0.01 charge from special tax items.
Again excluding this item 2012's Q1 earnings per share equaled $0.52.
In summary our adjusted EPS increased by $0.24 or 46%.
Now let's look at our operating segments starting with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective first quarter sales to U.S.
markets were up 13% and Rest of the World sales were up 1% year-over-year.
Sales to Mercury European customers decreased 1%.
In the aggregate Mercury sales increased 7% for the quarter.
U.S.
sales growth was led by strength in outboard engines and parts and accessories.
The slight increase in Rest of the World sales was primarily a result of the improvements in Asia-Pacific outboard engine sales.
In Europe engine sales were up slightly but offset by lower parts and accessories sales.
From a product category perspective our U.S.
outboard engine business delivered strong earnings growth reflecting solid performance in the aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat categories.
Strong demand continued for our new 150-horsepower FourStroke as well as the Verado engine family and engines in the 75- 90- and 115-horsepower range.
Unfavorable global demand trends continued to affect revenues from sterndrive engines.
These market trends were partially offset by increased sales resulting from the absence of our Q1 2012 sterndrive production and start-up inefficiencies.
In spite of inclement weather and a late developing spring in much of the United States Mercury's parts and accessories businesses reported solid sales increases in the United States and Rest of the World markets reflecting stable boating participation new product launches and market share gains.
European parts and accessories sales experienced a modest decline in the quarter.
Record sales in earnings were again achieved by Attwood in the quarter.
Mercury's adjusted operating earnings increased by approximately $22 million during the first quarter.
Positive factors included higher sales particularly in the 75- to 150-horsepower outboard range the absence of the Q1 2012 sterndrive production inefficiencies and a gain on sale of real estate.
These factors were partially offset by spending on growth initiatives.
First quarter operating margins were 13.7%.
Now let's look at our Boat segment.
Q1 revenues were down 1% compared to the prior period.
In the quarter our sales to Europe declined 30% reflecting soft market conditions and actions to reduce dealer pipelines.
Rest of the World sales decreased by 6% due primarily to lower sales in the Asia-Pacific market partially offset by higher sales in South America.
In the United States which represents about 2/3 of the segment sales increased by 7% reflecting strong wholesale shipments of aluminum boats.
Before we take a look at United States powerboat industry statistics to get a view of how retail demand is unfolding by boat category let's take a moment to review some weather trends that were influencing retail activity in the first quarter.
Although we're always reluctant to cite weather as a factor we believe warmer-than-normal temperatures that occurred in the first quarter of 2012 combined with colder-than-normal conditions in this year's first quarter for the eastern 2/3 of the United States contributed to the declines experienced thus far.
In other words we believe that retail sales occurred earlier last year and this year they remain potentially deferred to later months.
Therefore as you can see from the preliminary SSI first quarter data weather and possibly certain economic factors influenced Q1 demand metrics as aluminum and fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat markets decreased by 7% and 14% respectively.
Fiberglass outboard markets continued to show growth but at a lower pace than in 2012.
In SSI's industry report which is published in Soundings Trade Only fiberglass boats greater than 30 feet in length but less than 63 feet which represent about 50% of our fiberglass sterndrive inboard revenues were up 1% year-to-date.
Fiberglass sterndrive boats smaller than 30 feet were down 17%.
In the first quarter global retail unit sales of Brunswick boats declined by approximately 1% and global wholesale shipments increased by 1%.
Our wholesale dollars increased due to an unfavorable change in product mix.
Our dealers ended the quarter at 39 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis which compares to 39 weeks on hand a year earlier.
Pipelines for aluminum product are over -- are up over last year's levels on a unit basis and weeks on hand determined on a trailing 12-month retail basis are also higher.
As a result of the negative influence inclement weather had on retail activity wholesale shipments in the first quarter exceeded retail demand especially in our fish boat category by an amount greater than we had anticipated.
Assuming retail sales are consistent with our full year expectations we would expect aluminum wholesale unit shipments to grow in parity with retail demand in 2013.
Pipelines for fiberglass sterndrive inboard product 24 feet and larger continued to decline to record low levels.
As we stated on our January conference call we planned in the first half of 2013 for the continuation of declines in large boat pipeline inventories as we and our dealers continue to respond to weak market conditions in this segment.
Understanding the market and working closely with our dealers on top line management is important for 2 reasons.
Main pipelines enable us to respond quickly to the market upturn we will eventually see.
And in addition our product plan contemplates a significant volume of new introductions and healthy pipelines facilitate the flow of this product to the market.
For both segments first quarter adjusted operating earnings declined by $1.7 million when compared to the prior year.
This decline resulted from lower sales of large fiberglass boats due to the previously mentioned pipeline reduction actions and weak market conditions as well as investments made in our growth initiatives.
Partially offsetting these negative factors were the benefits from the fiberglass cost reduction activities we initiated in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now let's take time to look at our 2 recreation segments.
Sales in Life Fitness increased by 6% compared to last year's first quarter.
The increase reflected strong net gains in international markets and sales growth to U.S.
health club customers and most other U.S.
distribution channels partially offset by lower sales to local and federal government customers.
First quarter operating earnings increased by 3%.
Higher sales combined with a favorable insurance settlement were partially offset by investments in growth initiatives.
Sales in our Bowling &amp; Billiards business decreased 5% in the quarter.
Lower sales in bowling products and a reduced retail center count were partially offset by an increase in United States equivalent retail center sales.
We believe that weather was a favorable factor for our retail bowling centers as consumers remained content with indoor activities with colder-than-normal conditions this year compared to the warmer conditions last year.
First quarter adjusted operating earnings increased by 3% as increased United States equivalent center sales and improved operating efficiencies were partially offset by lower sales in bowling products.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill for a closer look on our financials.
Thank you Dusty.
Let me start with a discussion on our debt outstanding which at the end of Q1 was $570 million representing a $261 million reduction over the last 2-plus years.
Reducing outstanding debt continues to be a priority for the company with targeted debt reductions of $100 million to $125 million planned for the year.
Our plan contemplates the retirement of our 2016 bonds thereby eliminating the 11 1/4% coupon from our debt portfolio.
This retirement would be funded using the combination of cash and proceeds from a new debt offering and will substantially complete our planned debt reductions.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense and interest income was $14 million in the quarter a decrease of $3.1 million versus the same period in 2012.
The reduction was a result of lower debt balances.
For 2013 we expect net interest expense to be reduced by $13 million to $17 million excluding anticipated debt extinguishment losses of $25 million to $30 million.
The exact timing of debt retirement is one of the factors that will determine where we fall within these ranges.
Please note since our guidance is on an as adjusted basis the exact amount of the extinguishment loss will not affect our EPS guidance range.
Foreign currency had a minimal impact on sales and operating earnings comparisons for the quarter reflecting a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements and including the impact of hedging activity.
For full year 2013 versus 2012 comparison we currently estimate that exchange rates will have a minimal impact on sales and a positive impact on operating earnings.
This assumes that rates remain in line with current levels for the remainder of the year.
Our tax provision for the first quarter was $21.9 million on a GAAP basis.
This included a net charge of $11.1 million related to a valuation allowance adjustment for stock compensation activities that occurred in the quarter.
On an as adjusted basis our tax provision was $11.2 million compared to $9.9 million in the first quarter of 2012.
These amounts exclude the impact of onetime pretax charges such as restructuring charges debt extinguishment losses and any nonrecurring special tax adjustments.
The effective tax rate on an as adjusted basis was 13.6% for the first quarter of 2013 which is lower than the prior year and our previous estimate for 2013.
These variances are largely the result of more favorable mix of domestic versus foreign earnings as the company's tax provision continues to be comprised mostly of foreign income taxes.
Our current estimated effective tax rate for 2013 on an as adjusted basis is in the range of 13% to 15%.
Turning to our view of our cash flow statement.
Cash used for operating activities of continuing operations in the first quarter was $94 million.
Seasonal changes in our primary working capital accounts resulted in a use of cash in the quarter and total approximately $176 million.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by $123 million; inventories increased by $29 million; accrued expenses decreased by $67 million; and accounts payable increased by $43 million.
Given the seasonality of sales in our Marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital balances over the remainder of the year.
Capital spending in the quarter was approximately $21 million with the increase from prior year primarily reflecting the impact of our growth initiatives.
Free cash flow also included approximately $6 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our Marine segments.
Total free cash flow from continuing operations totaled a negative $108.9 million versus a negative $69.4 million in the prior year.
Please note that our plan anticipates improvement in year-over-year free cash flow trends over the remainder of 2013.
In summary cash and marketable securities declined to $305 million during the quarter with a seasonal free cash flow usage accounting for the majority of the reduction.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balances is the net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $271 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities provides us with total available liquidity of $576 million.
Now let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for the full year.
We currently estimate restructuring charges to be in the $11 million to $13 million range in '13 including those pertaining to consolidation actions initiated in the Boat segment during the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $95 million.
We expect our 2013 pension expense to be approximately $90 million which is a decrease of $6 million from 2012.
In 2013 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the range of $50 million to $60 million.
We expect capital expenditures to increase versus the prior year as we fund our growth initiatives.
Our current plan reflects an amount that now approximates 4% of projected sales.
Our working capital performance will be primarily a function of our revenue assumptions.
Our current estimate reflects a use of cash for the full year for working capital in the range of $25 million to $50 million.
Despite higher spending levels and a usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate solid free cash flow for the full year and maintain healthy levels of liquidity although total cash balances will be reduced to fund debt reduction.
I'll now turn the call back to Dusty for his concluding comments.
Thanks Bill.
I'm going to conclude by talking about our outlook for the remainder of this year.
We continue to plan for global marine markets to unfold consistent with our initial planning assumptions which reflect a global economic conditions that are generally comparable to 2012 with weakness continuing in Europe.
First quarter U.S.
Marine sale demand was below our expectations.
Clearly weather conditions in important boating markets played a significant role in depressing demand.
Because of the significance of weather on demand it remains unclear to us whether demand is also being impacted by consumers pulling back slightly as they absorb higher payroll and other taxes and other factors which weaken consumer confidence in spending.
We believe these non-weather factors are having a modest negative effect.
We expect in the remainder of 2013 to continue to experience an uneven recovery in the U.S.
powerboat market with our outboard boat and engine products along with our global parts and accessories businesses generating growth.
We continue to believe that weak market conditions will put pressure on the large fiberglass boat category which will affect both fiberglass boat and sterndrive engine production and sales.
Positive health and wellness trends combined with exciting new products have positioned our Fitness business to deliver excellent results again in 2013.
And our Bowling business should further leverage its competitive advantages with improving sales expense expected in the second half of the year.
So as we look at the top line we continue to target 3% to 5% growth in overall revenue in 2013.
Our current plan also reflects a modest improvement in gross margin levels as the strong increase we experienced in the first quarter is expected to moderate over the remainder of the year.
As you may recall the company's strong gross margin improvement in 2012 occurred mostly in the last 3 quarters of the year.
Consequently we are facing more challenging comparisons as we move forward you'd see a balance between positive and negative factors affecting gross margins for the remainder of the year.
As always we will continue to focus on identifying and implementing strategies which improve our gross margins.
Our organic growth platform will benefit from increased investments in capital projects and research and development programs along with the SG&amp;A to support them.
And as a result of these initiatives Q2 and the full year operating expenses as a percentage of sales are expected to be comparable to 2012 levels.
For the full year we will also benefit from lower net interest expense and pension costs as well as a lower-than-anticipated effective tax rate on an adjusted basis.
Partially offsetting these positive factors is the effect of higher diluted shares outstanding.
So as a result of all of these factors we're increasing our 2013 diluted earnings per share as adjusted expectation to a range of $2.30 to $2.50 per diluted share.
The midpoint of this range would represent a very solid mid-teen percent growth rate over the $2.09 we earned in 2012.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question we have comes from the line of Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to start on retail.
I think you said your global retail sales were down 1% which is quite a bit better than where the U.S.
market shaped out for the quarter.
Should we interpret from that that you had some nice share gains in the U.S.
or did the growth rate -- was the growth rate helped by just better growth in international markets? And if it is more of a share dynamic maybe you could elaborate on what segments you might be gaining some share in.
Good question.
Both -- the answer is both those contributed and our share gain is occurring in our aluminum outboard-based business and our outboard fiberglass business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow up on the sum of gross margins you came in quite a bit better than I think most were expecting for the quarter.
I understand that the absence of the sterndrive issue was a nice piece of that.
Could you maybe quantify how much of it came from that particular factor? Because it seems like that wouldn't have accounted for the majority of it.
In which case it's a little bit hard to understand why you might not be able to get some continued gross margin expansion as the year unfolds from here.
Well about 1/3 of the increase in the first quarter Ed came from the absence of the inefficiencies that we had in the first quarter of last year.
Then as we look forward to the remainder of the year I might let Bill walk you through what we're seeing on gross margins if that's okay.
And maybe I'll touch on factors that affected this year.
First Ed I'd like to point out that this is really the fourth straight quarter where we've had significant year-over-year gross margin improvement.
And as you look out through the remainder of the year I think the comps get to be a little bit more difficult.
Some of the other factors that affected Q1 -- we continue to get some tailwinds from a richer mix of engine products being sold.
The growth in the 75- to 150-horsepower category continues to be something where we see a benefit and we really started to see that take hold kind of in Q2 last year and especially during the second half of the year.
Boat sales are a factor where we probably got a little bit of the headwind.
The mix change between selling higher margin large boats and smaller margin aluminum and fiberglass boats -- outboard boats has been a headwind for us in Q1 and it'll be something we expect to see until our pipeline reductions are completed.
And then in the Fitness business we've seen the margins in that business starting to flatten which we've talked about.
As the competitive environment gets to be a little bit more difficult we see that stuff occur -- that margins are starting to flatten.
Next question comes from the line of James Hardiman of Longbow Research.
A couple of clarification questions.
Certainly when you look at things from a segment perspective the big beat here was on the Engine side.
Fitness also did really well.
Can you just clarify the couple items that were in both of those numbers? I think you said you there was a $5.5 million gain on sale of real estate.
Was that a gross number a net number? And then could you help us quantify the insurance settlement? Was that meaningful on the Fitness side? The $5.5 million is a net number for the gain.
And the Fitness insurance was slightly over $1 million.
$1 million okay.
And then I guess separately on the guide basically at the midpoint of your guidance I think it's up maybe $0.07 $0.075.
It seems like the entirety of that is taxes right? I mean you lowered your adjusted tax rate I get to about a $0.09 benefit from that alone.
I guess if you were to boil down what's changed and it sounds like there's about 50 things that have changed what are the big items that have gotten better since the last time we spoke and what are the items that have gotten worse? Because I think we see a pretty big first quarter beat and yet excluding taxes the guidance is largely unchanged.
We'll first your arithmetic is actually right.
And we -- I frankly expected James questions along the line that you're laying out here "well why didn't you raise it for [ph]?" It's not -- this is not to say in the way we raise the guidance range that we're not really confident about the year.
But what we're frankly doing is we're very early in the retail season for -- in our Marine business and it has been delayed by weather.
And we wanted to give ourselves room to take a turn here through this second quarter and begin to get a good view about what's going to go on at retail if retail begins to come back and it begins to meet on an annual basis the levels we've been thinking.
We feel really good about our year.
But we just need to let that develop here in the second quarter and then we'll take a look and see what we ought to say.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things here and I apologize I got on a tad late in the call.
The retail any commentary on what you've seen in April here? If you can give some additional color there.
And then also on the gross margin question the boat mix Bill if you could go over that and a little bit more detail you're -- it seems like in the first quarter you had called out before that you're lowering your shipments because of some of the new products coming in the second quarter that will be shipped in the second quarter.
So -- and maybe it's just some nuances between that and understandable with the aluminum boat so just a little more color on that would be helpful sir.
I'll do April retail first and then I'll provide one comment on gross margin and let Bill who's a lot smarter than me handle the rest of it.
April retail is pretty interesting.
We've always said we didn't like to talk about the weather because there's weather every day but we continue to talk about the weather here.
Several of us were just up in Minnesota for a visitors review last week and it was snowing in April.
Having said that though as we look at our liquidations through our BAC business we're seeing a nice pickup in April.
So we're just going to have to let all these unfold Tim.
And again looking at weather even here in the Chicago area the forecast for next week's a heck of a lot better than we've experienced this week.
So again our view is that this is primarily weather-related and as we've surveyed dealers a lot of dealers have a lot of sold boats sitting on their showroom floors waiting for better weather to deliver.
So we're not depressed by this; it's just a fact and time's going to tell.
But we're not overly pessimistic about what's going to happen.
On this gross margin question the first thing I would say is when we talk about new product coming Tim I don't think we've promised second quarter.
We just said for the year we need to get the pipeline positioned for a bunch of new product coming and there's a lot coming in our larger fiberglass business but we've not really timed it around the second quarter.
And I don't really want to get into timing because I don't want to give away competitive information.
I think the only thing I'd add to that would be that Q2 was probably a tougher period year-over-year comparisons for big boats than Q1 was.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
But I mean if you're -- okay okay.
I'll -- and then the small boats though as that picks up -- I mean your most probable boats are your midsize boats and as that would pick up you would think that the gross margins would get better when you start shipping some of that.
So again back to the gross margin could the guidance at this point be conservative? I think Tim again our planning assumption is that -- what you call midsize boats let's kind of define it for the rest of our audience it's sort of -- it would be midsized fiberglass boats which are say 28 feet up to 40 feet.
And you're right that's a very profitable segment for us.
But our plan Tim is to continue to take pipeline down in the second quarter for that product.
Next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley and Company.
Research Division</strong> The SSI data showed some significant strength in fiberglass inboard and sterndrive product over 30 feet in length in the month of March.
It seems like that's continuing here in April.
So I guess just in the context of your pipeline reduction initiatives are you concerned at all that if we do have a big release of deferred demand later in the selling season that your dealers might actually be caught a little to lean? Not concerned as we look at the levels of what we think we could produce Jimmy but you're right.
It's something we need to keep an eye on.
And frankly if it happens we got a really high-class problem and we'll scramble and find a way to meet demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe you could just characterize your fiberglass sterndrive and inboard pipeline inventory relative to the industry maybe both in terms of weeks on hand and then age? I don't know that we have a good industry weeks on hand or aging frankly.
We have views that say as we look at our BAC business that we're comparable to slightly better than the rest of the industry but Jimmy we don't have hard data.
I wouldn't be able to promise you with hard data that that was true.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one from me and then I'll pass it off.
A really strong quarter here for Mercury as mentioned.
I'm just hoping maybe you could speak to outboard engine market share trends here early in the season and if you're seeing any increased competitive activity from the Japanese given that the yen and I guess the relative attractiveness of the North American market for them? Sure.
Share we're comfortable with where we are and that we'll maintain throughout this year the share growth that we've experienced that really began around the tsunami.
And what was the second part of that? I apologize.
Research Division</strong> Just if you're seeing any increased continued activity...
Oh ok -- pricing.
No we haven't.
And our Japanese competitors are great and smart competitors and this could be a time for them to take some margin.
And I should always clarify we buy a lot of engines out of Japan through our TMC joint venture and that's for 30-horsepower and below.
And of course we're seeing a benefit from that.
But we're not really changing our pricing either.
Next question is from the line of Mike Swartz from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on some of the commentary around maybe investment spending.
It sounds like versus your prior goalpost that some of the operational expenses aren't moving higher to the balance of the year and it does sound like CapEx is closer to the top end of the range that you gave before.
So maybe you can provide some more commentary around maybe where the incremental spending is going and if you're pulling any of that -- any of those investments forward from 2014.
Let's see if this helps.
First is the increase in operating expenses because we've guided now think of '13 as operating expenses being on a percentage basis same as '12.
And then if you do the arithmetic pick a number but that's -- I'm just going to pick a number $40 million.
As we look at then how we're spending that additional amount well more than half of that Mike is all growth driven.
And it's in R&amp;D.
It's in sales and marketing and it is in some IT infrastructure that we'll need in order to support all that growth.
As we go over to the CapEx spending that were beginning at that range and I think we're saying it's around 4%; 75% of our CapEx spending is to support growth and that's a significant number.
So we're very happy with our ability to maintain all of our facilities et cetera but we're really spending a significant amount in order to promote growth in the future.
And none of that Mike is a pull-forward from '14.
It's all consistent with our plan.
And as we've talked about now coming up on a couple of years about all of our growth initiatives and we're just out executing against that everyday.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just to touch on the Fitness business.
I know that in the fourth quarter the Fitness business was a little softer than expected and your thoughts at the time where you said that some orders may have been delayed or deferred into the first quarter.
Did you see any of that pick up in the quarter or is that something that we should expect maybe later in the year? Here's what went on in the Fitness business.
This business is now split almost equally between outside the United States and inside the United States.
And as the way that we account for sales a lot of the sales that we've done in the past to government buyers has been on a unit basis down 50%.
So then as we look -- and that happened in the fourth quarter.
Frankly that's continuing unabated in the first quarter in light of all the restrictions on spending sequestered to government.
So the way that that quarter shaped up and it's really unique versus all of our businesses we got 1% growth in the U.S.
even after making up for loss of 50% of units to government sales.
And we had 11% growth outside the U.S.
which was just magnificent.
So that business -- our guys there are really in tune with the market.
We got a lot of great products coming.
I've got to be with our team in Europe 2 weeks ago at the large European show.
I really like the way the business is positioned.
I know what product's coming to the market and I think it's going to do really well compared to the competition.
So that's a place we're comfortable push the guys to keep the new product coming.
We'll let them spend in operating expenses because a lot of what they do is not so much capital-intensive as it's R&amp;D intensive.
So we're encouraging the ramp up and get it done and keep the new products coming.
Next question comes from the line of Rommel Dionisio of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> We certainly see the numbers in aggregate for the divisions.
But I wonder Dusty if you could just comment on some of the new boat products introductions that you have here for 2013 especially Sea Ray and Bayliner.
I know Sea Ray had a new 5 -- 51 or 510 and Bayliner had some new designs as well.
So I wonder if you can just comment on the initial reception at the dealer and consumer level there.
Yes.
And thank you for the question because it always gives me the opportunity to pontificate about what a great job our boat guys are doing.
As you know you follow us closely down in Miami there were 4 boat categories for innovative products and our products won 3 of them.
And in one of the categories we were both 1 and 2.
And the sales of those products continue to be very strong.
The 510 which you mentioned is clearly our star right now above 50 feet.
We've got a lot of product coming above that size range.
And frankly that's one of the reasons we're working hard to position our pipeline in order to receive all that at the appropriate time.
On some of the specifics the Bayliner Element all-new styling a new ride it feels different when you're on it a very low price is a real hit.
And it reminds me almost back to 2002 when we took the first Bayliners to Mexico and came out with a very important price point of boat; we're getting the same sort of reception here.
Our Boston Whaler center consoles or side consoles -- I'm sorry walk-throughs are doing well.
They won an award in Miami.
So as I look at our whole product lineup new products our product folks are really hitting it.
I think we probably had a low as we went through the downturn cut back on spending for our new product.
Our guys have done a great job of gearing up.
Our design people are better now than they've ever been.
And we're really confident about what we've got coming.
And we're spending a lot of money to get it there.
So it's got to hit but our team knows that and they're staying on the path.
Next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on an earlier question regarding market share for Mercury.
I know one of your hopes was to begin to gain share in the saltwater market where you're relatively underpenetrated.
Maybe just tell us how you've made progress against that goal and what's driving it.
First Craig thanks for the question.
A little early to tell.
Boston Whaler's 100% Mercury it's doing a nice job of gaining shares so of course we're getting that pull-through.
That's a part of the market even in this difficult weather-driven retail first quarter that improved.
So my statement at this point in time is that we're getting slight market share gain but now we need to let all the programs we've put in place evolve into the selling season and I'll be able to give you a better view at the end of the third quarter Craig.
Research Division</strong> And then Dusty I know you've -- you monitor the used boat market as an indicator for new demand.
What are you seeing in that market and how are prices in the used market trending? Really nothing different than we've been talking about now for several quarters.
If there's a good used boat it gets sold quickly or gets bought quickly.
The real problem that the whole network is having and continues to have is finding those great used boats.
I think a lot of people are hanging on their boats and continuing the boat.
And we've seen no real change in used boat pricing which -- to put us back on the same page says that used boat pricing has fallen back into the normal relationship between new and used and that was something that of course got really out of line in 2008 '09 and a good part of '10.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman of Longbow.
Just real quick Dusty.
Did you say we were back to historical levels in terms of the new versus used? I'm assuming there's still plenty of room to get there or did I hear that wrong? We said -- I said on the relationship between new and used.
On price relationship.
Thank you Bill.
Thank you.
Oh I'm sorry.
But we're far from there in terms of the mix at this point.
Oh yes.
That's correct.
I'm sorry I was inarticulate.
In terms of the inventories you talked specifically with aluminum boats the retail was a little bit worse than what you thought.
So wholesale was ahead of retail in the first quarter.
And if retail sales stayed consistent with your expectations those 2 wholesale and retail are basically going to be flat for the year.
Is the point then that over the course of -- the remaining course of the year a -- aluminum boats obviously have to accelerate but is wholesale then going to be less than retail for aluminum? And is that a safe assumption for the overall boat category? Well first unit sales in our plan what I've said they would be -- wholesale would equal retail by the end of the year.
But even though retail is behind it does not mean we will not continue to produce over wholesale at the levels of our plan because our view is that retail will catch up.
Secondly this whole aluminum category presents a very interesting dichotomy for us.
As hard as we go with the way the market has been improving we never quite have the number of boats we want out there that we would like.
And in fact even though we had great market share gain in our aluminum brands we feel last year toward the end of the summer we lost a little share because we just couldn't get enough boats out there.
So we're just -- get them made get them into the dealer network let's stay on our plan.
And even if retail were not to be precisely where our plan was we'll still make the boats and get them out there because we're going to need them.
We just keep falling a little short.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dusty I wanted to circle back on the yen.
Again just to clarify you said you have not seen any material pressures at this point from the Japanese using that as a competitive weapon.
Is that -- just to clarify that.
That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly at the Miami Boat Show your being talked about in some of the conversation on the side about reminded us of the anti-dumping suit that Mercury brought back in the middle part of the last decade against the Japanese.
Can you kind of talk about should you see the competitive pressure step up what you feel you may have options of revisiting that or not? As long as I'm sitting in this chair I can never imagine us doing that again.
We just need to go win in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Do you view that as a somewhat of a line in the sand though that the Japanese may see that as -- in the past as something they don't want to cross though? I have no idea what's in their heads and I certainly have no view that they're dumping right now.
My view is very much -- currencies are going to move.
Over time great competitors and the Japanese are great competitors do the right thing around price in their attempt to maintain margin over the long-term that they need in order to continue to reinvest in the business.
My expectation is that will continue to happen with our Japanese competitors.
And the yen-dollar relationship still has not hit anything like we've had to live with at various times.
It has been $1.20.
I haven't looked this morning Tim but it's around $0.99 or $1.
Look we can compete there.
We're prepared to do so.
And we look forward to the competition.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Yurman of 1221 Capital Management.
LLC</strong> I want to address a comment Dusty that you made at a conference about a month ago a sell side conference it really took me back.
And you were juxtaposing the difference in the Engine business and the Boat business kind of coming out of a downturn.
And in describing the Boat business it's a very down and dirty and ugly world and the thing that really kind of stuck out of me is that the number of brands kind of go into the downturn is the number of coming out.
So the barriers to continue to operate are pretty low.
And you described them as zombies and that they'll be stuck in the year and it was just some really good color.
But the thing I want to focus on is more -- our current composition in the Boat segment 41% of our sales and a larger percent of our operating income is from the larger boats and the sterndrive and the inboard.
When I look at these zombies and given these barriers to compete are as low as they appear to be.
I guess just a couple of questions.
What's the probability that the way that these zombies are currently being financed kind of goes away if the environment just kind of more broadly speaking were to get worse? And I guess in a roundabout way what I'm asking is do you foresee the composition of the operating income of the Boat business ever moving away from the lion share coming from these larger boats? No.
Well first let me focus on [indiscernible] just a moment on the small boats.
We acquired those businesses in 2005 and right about the time the hurricane started and the aluminum market began to decline.
Our aluminum business has completely restructured itself completely changed its cost bases and right now makes more money than our bigger sterndrive inboard boat brands do and that's to be expected as we take down pipelines and reduce the production.
So that's -- that is a good business and it's structured to remain good now for a very long time because that part of the market's not recovered.
It's been recovering better than fiberglass but our guys are doing a really good job in those businesses.
So that is a true structural change in our Boat business and a true long-term change in the profit producing activity of our Boat business.
Now as we go to the larger fiberglass sterndrive inboard product my view today is if we were producing wholesale equals retail we'd be making money in that business.
But right now we've been very open in that we're reducing pipelines.
We're wholesaling fairly significantly under retail and that is all designed to position this business for future success.
So yes the industry dynamics are never going to change in my view.
They're always going to be difficult but our guys in the Boat business are making all of the adjustments they need in order to compete in the New World whatever volumes have -- that potentially come to them.
So as you've looked at the progression of earnings in our Boat business we've said we'll be breakeven to a little better this year.
And that's pretty darn remarkable in the sort of market that we're in.
So it's not going to take a lot of volume for our guys to do really well.
That part of the market will always be on a percentage basis more profitable and with this sort of growth it will always be on a dollar basis more profitable.
But we've done a complete review restructuring repositioning of our Boat business and we feel pretty confident that we're going to do well almost in any market conditions over time.
At this time we'd like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
I thank all who are on the call.
We appreciate all the great questions we get and all the interest in our company.
As we've said we're satisfied with our first quarter.
We've got our sleeves rolled up.
We need now watch what's going to happen with the market in the second quarter and we're prepared to do what we need to do in order to go forward.
So thank you very much.
And I look forward to seeing you around on roadshows conferences or whatever.
Goodbye.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation's 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details of the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's release.
I would also like to remind you that as a result of our announced intention to sell the Hatteras and CABO businesses the results of Hatteras and CABO continue to be reported as discontinued operations for all periods.
The figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Dustan McCoy.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to start with an overview of our strong second quarter results.
We reported continued gains in sales margins and earnings reflecting our ability to execute against our growth and debt reduction plans in spite of challenging market conditions in certain of our businesses.
Revenue in the quarter increased 4% and was led by growth in outboard marine products marine parts and accessories fitness equipment and U.S.
retail bowling partially offset by declines in fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats and in our bowling products business.
Gross margin increased by 60 basis points mainly due to improved operating efficiencies and cost reductions in all 4 segments.
Operating expenses increased by 2% including a 13% increase in research and development expenses as we continue to invest in programs that support our numerous growth initiatives Adjusted operating earnings increased by 12% versus prior year with our Marine Engine segment being the primary contributor.
Continuing down the P&amp;L net interest expense excluding debt extinguishment losses was reduced by $4.9 million reflecting the benefit from our substantially completed debt reduction plan.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted increased by 18% to $1.23.
For the year we're increasing our estimate of 2013 diluted EPS as adjusted to a range of $2.55 to $2.65 per share.
This is the result of our solid first half performance in uneven market conditions a favorable outcome on our debt refinancing transaction and a lower-than-anticipated tax rate.
As I mentioned sales in the quarter grew by 4%.
Solid top line improvements were experienced in our Marine Engine and Fitness segments.
In our Boat segment the aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat businesses continued to deliver strong sales growth in the quarter while the fiberglass sterndrive business remained weak.
From a geographic perspective consolidated United States sales increased by 5% sales to Europe increased by 6% and Rest-of-World sales were up 1% versus the prior year.
In the first half of the year our sales also increased by 4%.
Consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 6% sales to Europe were up 1% and Rest-of-the-World sales were flat versus the prior year.
Our first half growth rates in Europe were mixed both by country and business segment.
We'll provide some specific commentary on this region during our segment discussions.
Adjusted operating earnings were $140 million -- $140.7 million for the quarter an increase of $14.8 million or 12% compared to 2012.
Operating margins x charges increased by 90 basis points to 12.8%.
The increase in operating earnings reflects solid sales growth and continued gross margin improvements partially offset by a modest increase in operating expenses resulting from the increased investments in growth.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $236.2 million for the first half an increase of 17% compared to 2012.
Operating margins x charges increased 130 basis points to 11.3%.
Net earnings for the quarter were $0.85 per share including $0.04 of charges for restructuring $0.32 of losses from debt retirements and a $0.02 charge from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share as adjusted equaled $1.23 per share.
This compares to net earnings of $1.02 in the prior year which included a net of losses from debt retirement and a $0.03 benefit from special tax items.
Again excluding these items 2012 second quarter EPS equaled $1.04.
In summary our EPS as adjusted increased by $0.19 or 18%.
Net earnings for the first half were $1.43 per share including $0.10 of restructuring charges $0.32 of losses from debt retirement and a $0.14 loss from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share would've been $1.99 per share.
This compares to net earnings of $1.53 per share in the prior year which included $0.05 of losses from debt retirements and a $0.02 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items 2012's earnings per share would've been $1.56.
As adjusted our first half EPS increased by $0.43 or 28%.
Now let's look at our operating segments and we'll start with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective second quarter sales to U.S.
markets were up 9% with the growth in all major product categories.
Sales to Mercury's European customers increased 4% led by a more favorable mix of higher horsepower engine sales.
Rest-of-World sales were up 2% year-over-year as a result of higher sales in most of major markets.
In the aggregate Mercury sales increased 7% for the quarter.
From a product category perspective our U.S.
outboard engine business delivered strong sales growth reflecting solid performance in the aluminum and fiberglass outboard in both categories.
Strong demand continued for our 150-horsepower FourStroke as well as for the Verado engine family and engines in the 75 90 and 115 horsepower range.
Unfavorable global retail demand trends along with reductions in boat dealer inventories continued to affect revenues in sterndrive engines.
As you may recall in the first half of 2012 demand for outboard engines increased double digits which outpaced Mercury's production capabilities leading to a high level of back orders at the close of that period.
As Mercury entered the back half of 2012 they had successfully taken several actions to increase capacity and production flexibility and made excellent progress over the second half of 2012 lowering the level of back orders and increasing sales.
This dynamic contributed to the sales growth for the outboard business in the first half of 2013 as Mercury successfully met demand of products in the period.
This relationship has somewhat reversed in the second half of 2013 as the benefit from shipments to decrease high outboard product back orders in the second half of 2012 will not be repeated in 2013.
Mercury's parts and accessories businesses reported solid sales increases in the United States and Rest-of-World markets reflecting stable boating participation new product launches and market share gains.
European sales for our P&amp;A business experienced a slight increase in the quarter.
Record sales were achieved by Attwood and Land 'N' Sea in the quarter and year-to-date.
Attwood's award-winning portable and integrated fuel systems continue to be an important contributor to Mercury's P&amp;A business and Land 'N' Sea continues to grow through product line and distribution expansion.
Mercury's adjusted operating earnings increased by approximately $14 million during the second quarter with operating margins at 18.9% which is 100 basis points higher than the prior year on an adjusted basis.
Positive factors include higher sales particularly in the 75- to 150-horsepower outboard range as well as in the parts and accessories business.
Also contributing to the higher operating earnings were favorable product mix of higher horsepower engines as well as improved cost and operating efficiencies.
These positive factors were partially offset by spending on growth initiatives and higher warranty expense as continued improvements in claims experience were more than offset by a more favorable warranty adjustment in the prior-year second quarter.
Now turn to our Boat segment.
Their second quarter revenues were up 1% compared to the prior period.
In the U.S.
which represents about 2/3 of the segment sales were flat reflecting continued growth in U.S.
aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat categories which was offset by continued weakness in retail demand for fiberglass sterndrive boats and the impact of our related strategy to reduce large boat pipelines.
In the quarter our sales to Europe increased by approximately $4 million.
For the 6 months sales are down 10% which we believe is more consistent with the marine retail demand trends in Europe.
Rest-of-World sales decreased by 3% as higher sales into the South American market were more than offset by declines in other markets.
Now let's take a look at the United States powerboat industry statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Inc.
to get a view of how demand is unfolding by boat category in the United States.
As we stated in our first quarter conference call in April it appeared weather was influencing both 2012 and 2013 demand metrics which continued into the second quarter.
Specifically a warmer-than-normal spring in 2012 combined with the colder and wetter-than-normal conditions experienced in 2013 are believed to have had a significant influence over market demand in both category -- in certain categories.
Based on the preliminary second quarter data aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat markets demonstrated solid growth and have improved compared to the first quarter 2013 with the pontoon category as reported in Soundings Trade Only leading the outboard market with a 5% year-to-date growth rate.
The fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boat market experienced double-digit declines in the quarter.
And for the year-to-date period again as reported in Soundings Trade Only fiberglass sterndrive boats less than 30 feet in length were down approximately 40% year-to-date.
While we believe weather continued to be a factor in the second quarter in this category consumer shifts from this category to other boat types such as pontoons as well as continued economic downdrafts on the typical buyer in this category are also contributors to the lower industry sales.
Overall the entire U.S.
retail powerboat market grew 3% in the quarter and remained modestly down through the first half of 2013.
Global retail unit sales of Brunswick Boats in the second quarter were flat and global wholesale shipments decreased by 2%.
Also during the second quarter most fiberglass and aluminum categories benefited from higher average sales prices and as a result overall segment revenues increased slightly in the period.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter at 32 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis which compares to 31 weeks on hand a year earlier.
Pipelines for aluminum product are up over last year's levels on a unit basis and weeks on hand determined on a trailing 12-month retail basis are also higher by approximately 3.5 weeks.
Retail activity in the first half trailed our expectations which contributed to the pipeline increase.
However we believe the pipeline levels in this category are at appropriate levels and we do not expect second half wholesale shipments to be significantly affected as prior year pipelines were below desired levels for our dealers.
Assuming retail sales are consistent with our full year expectations we expect aluminum wholesale unit shipments to grow slightly greater than retail demand in 2013.
Pipelines for fiberglass sterndrive/inboard product continued to decline to record low levels.
As we previously stated we planned in the first half of this year for the continuation of declines in pipeline inventories as we and our dealers responded to weak market conditions in this segment.
As this market continues to be very weak we now expect pipeline reductions to continue in the third quarter.
In addition our product plan contemplates a significant volume of new introductions in the fourth quarter and healthy pipelines facilitate the flow of this new product to the market.
The boat segment's second quarter adjusted operating earnings declined by $1.7 million when compared to the prior year.
This decline resulted from the previously discussed declines in lower sales of fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats as well as growth initiative investment spending and the absence of second quarter 2012 legal and insurance settlements.
Partially offsetting these negative factors were the benefits from higher aluminum and fiberglass outboard sales as well as the fiberglass boat cost reduction activities initiated in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As a result of the incremental pipeline reductions we plan on taking in our fiberglass sterndrive categories in the third quarter.
It's unlikely that we will achieve positive operating earnings in our Boat segment in 2013.
Now let's turn our attention to our 2 recreational segments.
Sales and Life Fitness increased by 5% when compared to last year's second quarter.
The increase reflected strong gains in international markets including solid growth in the United Kingdom and Germany.
Sales growth to U.S.
health clubs and hospitality customers were partially offset by lower sales to local and federal government customers.
Second quarter operating earnings increased by 5% as the benefit from higher sales was partially offset by growth initiative investments.
Sales in Bowling &amp; Billiards decreased by approximately $2 million or 2% in the quarter.
Lower sales in bowling products and the impact of a reduced retail center count were partially offset by an increase in U.S.
equivalent retail center and billiards sales.
We believe that weather and improved pricing were the main positive factors affecting our retail bowling center results.
Second quarter adjusted operating earnings increased by about $1 million as improved retail bowling operating margins were partially offset by lower sales in bowling products.
During the quarter our bowling organization entered into agreements to divest its European center bowling portfolio consisting of 7 locations.
The elimination of these centers will be modestly beneficial to the segment's operating earnings going forward.
This action is a reflection of the ongoing efforts the bowling retail team is pursuing to enhance our bowling center portfolio.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill who will give us a closer look at our financials.
Thank you Dusty.
Let me start with a discussion on our debt outstanding which at the end of the second quarter was $472 million representing a $359 million reduction over the last 2.5 years.
In early May we issued $150 million of 4.625% debt.
The proceeds from this issuance along with cash and marketable securities we used to retire the remaining 2016 notes in June thereby eliminating the 11.25% coupon from our debt portfolio.
These transactions substantially completed our planned debt reductions.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense and interest income was $12.3 million in the quarter a decrease of $4.9 million versus the same period in 2012.
The reduction was a result of lower debt balances.
Beginning in the third quarter our new quarterly run rate of net interest expense is about $8.25 million.
Therefore for the full year we expect net interest expense to be approximately $43 million excluding extinguishment losses associated with debt retirement.
Foreign currency had a minimal impact on sales and a favorable impact on operating earnings comparisons for the quarter reflecting a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements and includes the impact of hedging activity.
For the full year 2013 versus 2012 comparisons we currently estimate that exchange rates will have a slight unfavorable effect on sales and a positive impact on operating earnings.
This assumed that rates remain in line with current levels for the remainder of the year.
On an adjusted basis our tax provision was $12.5 million compared to $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2012.
These amounts exclude the tax impact of one-time charges such as restructuring charges debt extinguishment losses and any nonrecurring special tax adjustments.
The effective tax rate on an as-adjusted basis was 9.8% for the second quarter of 2013 versus 12% a year ago.
Our current estimated effective tax rate for 2013 on an as-adjusted basis is in the range of 11% to 13% which is lower than the prior year and our previous estimate for 2013.
These variances are largely the result of a more favorable mix of domestic versus foreign earnings.
I would also like to remind you about the possible reversal of a significant portion of our tax valuation allowance reserves later this year.
This noncash earnings benefit is excluded from our estimated 2013 tax rate as adjusted.
And as we have previously discussed this possible change in treatment will raise our tax rate in 2014 versus 2013.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations in the first half was $107 million a solid improvement of $41 million versus the prior year.
Seasonal changes in our primary working capital accounts resulted in a use of cash in the first half and totaled approximately $105 million.
By category accounts and notes receivable increased by $74 million inventories decreased by $27 million and accrued expenses decreased by $55 million.
Given the seasonality of sales in our marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital over the balance of the year with a corresponding benefit to free cash flow.
Capital expending in the first half increased $25 million versus the prior year to approximately $61 million which included investments in cash capacity expansion which Dusty will discuss later and in new products in all businesses.
Free cash flow also included approximately $7 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our marine segments.
Total free cash flow from continuing operations totaled $53.6 million versus $50.7 million in the prior year.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating solid free cash flow which has allowed us to reach our debt reduction targets and will also allow us to continue to fund future investments and growth.
In summary cash and marketable securities declined to $303 million at the end of the first half with the net impact of debt reduction activities partially offset by free cash flow.
Supplementing our cash and marketable securities balance is the net available borrowing capacity from our revolver of approximately $279 million which when combined with our cash and marketable securities balances provides us with total available liquidity of $609 million.
Now let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for the full year.
We currently estimate that restructuring charges will be in the range of $13 million to $15 million in '13.
Charges reflect activities pertaining to Boat segment planned consolidations initiated during the fourth quarter of 2012 and in the first quarter of 2013 as well as the previously mentioned divestiture of our European bowling centers.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $95 million.
We expect our 2013 pension expense to be approximately $19 million which is a decrease of $6 million from 2012.
In 2013 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the range of $50 million to $60 million.
We expect capital expenditures to increase versus prior years as we fund our growth initiatives.
Our plan continues to reflect an amount that approximates 4% of projected sales with a substantial portion directed at profit-enhancing projects.
Our working capital performance will primarily be a function of revenue assumptions.
Our current estimate reflects a use of cash for the full year in the range of $25 million to $50 million.
Despite higher spending levels and the usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate positive free cash flow for the full year generally consistent with prior year levels and maintain healthy levels of liquidity.
I'll now turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding comments.
Thanks Bill.
So we'll conclude by me providing you with our outlook for the full year of 2013.
Our operating plans for the remainder of the year continue to reflect an uneven recovery in the U.S.
powerboat market with our outboard boat and engine products and global parts and accessories businesses generating growth.
Our assumptions continue to reflect weak market conditions for fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats as well as further pipeline reductions in those categories.
And we continue to plan for weakness in Europe for some of our businesses albeit at a reduced level compared to the declines we experienced in 2012.
And our recreation businesses positive health and wellness trends combined with some really exciting new products have positioned our Fitness business to continue its strong top line performance and deliver excellent results again in 2013.
And our Bowling business should further benefit from operating enhancements and capitalizing on its competitive advantages.
We're now targeting a 4% growth rate in overall revenue in 2013 which is consistent with first half performance.
Growth rates in the third quarter will be affected by fiberglass pipeline reductions unfavorable comparisons in our engine businesses due to the factors I described earlier and lower retail bowling sales due to the center divestitures.
Our current full year plan reflects a solid improvement in gross margin levels.
As a result of the factors affecting the top line in our marine businesses third quarter consolidated gross margins are expected to be in line with the prior year.
Our organic growth platform will benefit from increased investments in capital projects and research and development programs along with SG&amp;A to support them.
As a result of these initiatives full year operating expenses as a percentage of sales are expected to be comparable to 2012 levels.
Our planned increase in spending to support growth and innovation is heaviest in the third quarter and we're currently planning that our operating expenses in the third quarter of 2013 will be up approximately 10% versus the same quarter in 2012.
Examples of these investments and our commitment to innovation and growth include the following: If we start on this chart at top left and go clockwise the investment continues at Mercury's Fond du Lac campus in Wisconsin where a $20 million expansion project is underway to enhance Mercury's manufacturing capacity.
Earlier this month Mercury broke ground for an additional 38 000 square feet of manufacturing space for our horizontal machining and high-pressure die-cast machines.
Separately Mercury's also investing in a 17 000 square foot facility housing 2 new 18 000-gallon testing tanks to enhance and augment our product development and testing.
In the Boat segment we recently acquired a new pontoon manufacturing location in Fort Wayne Indiana which is home to 2 of our popular pontoon brands Harris Flotebote and Cypress Cay.
The challenge for our pontoon brands has been to keep up with the strong demand particularly in light of its current facilities.
The new 360 000 square foot replacement location offers about double the area of the current plant allowing room for expansion.
This new location which is expected to be up and running in August provides much needed space and allows for improved operating efficiencies.
Moving on by the end of July we will have 2 pilot locations for our new Brunswick's concept in retail bowling in the Atlanta area.
Brunswick Bowling has been hard at work developing this upscale bowling and entertainment center concept over the past 18 months.
In addition to Marietta and Norcross Georgia a third location is planned for Buffalo Grove Illinois in the fall.
Our bowling retail organization has really honed in on delivering exceptional guest service including innovative cuisine from Tavern '45 a new name inspired by the founding of Brunswick in 1845.
Meanwhile Life Fitness has been quite busy in an effort to advance its edge in technology and innovation while also anticipating fitness trends and customer needs.
The new Discover SE and Discover SI tablet consoles are the first to sync with Android and mobile devices in addition to Apple operating systems.
This tablet console features an ultra-responsive touch screen with swipe technology for superior navigation and a more personalized experience.
Global Trends Reports predicts health-focused mobile app downloads will reach 1 billion annually by 2016.
With the launch of its cloud-based Life Fitness connect website and app Life Fitness provides customizable tools to fitness facilities and exercisers looking to tap into this trend.
Product development has always been a key focus here at Brunswick especially during recent difficult times.
We do so not only to change to meet a changing market but to stay in front.
It's imperative that we step up our already brisk pace of innovation to improve our products and the customer experience we offer throughout Brunswick.
Lastly and to complete our outlook comments for the full year we'll also benefit from lower net interest expense and pension cost as well as a lower effective tax rate on adjusted basis.
Partially offsetting these positive factors is the effect of higher diluted shares outstanding.
As a result of our solid performance in the first half the favorable outcome of the recent debt refinancing and the lower-than-anticipated tax rate we're increasing our expectation of 2013 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations as adjusted to a range of $2.55 to $2.65 per diluted share.
The midpoint of this range would represent a 24% growth rate over the $2.09 we earned in 2012.
Thanks and now I'll take your calls.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
We appear to be headed towards another year where sales are a little bit worse than expected certainly than what the Street was anticipating but margins are materially better than expected.
I think the general perception on the Street this year was that you'd only go so far as the industry and maybe some share gains would take you.
And yet here we are with guidance dramatically up from where it was just 6 months ago.
I guess my 2 questions are: How has margins and cost trended versus your own internal expectations this year? And as we move forward into the back half of this year and into next year what's left to do on the cost side of your business with the most obvious cost reductions already in the rearview mirror? Is there a meaningful improvement over and above just leverage from here on out? First James thanks for the question.
Secondly when we talk about the top line it's quite interesting.
We have lots of pundits and even some industry people who like to talk about what they think the industry's going to do but I would submit to you that the industry is performing just about like we said it would overall.
It's different from here to there but if you add up the overall numbers it's -- we're right in the range we said it would be and we have guided top line growth of 3% to 5% and we're settling now in -- at 4%.
So I'll start out with -- that the market and the industries look about like we thought they would and our top line growth is right about where we thought it would be.
In terms of whether we've been surprised by the margins that our businesses have been able to produce in general no.
I will say though that our folks are doing an absolutely outstanding job in the difficult economic climate in which we're working to deliver both top line and then leverage it to the bottom line while making significant investments because we're very focused on continuing to grow.
Our margin expectations for the remainder of the year is that we'll finish the year with our margins up solidly.
And I hope everybody heard us I think the third quarter is going to be a difficult gross margin quarter for us.
And my judgment is it'll be flattish to last year and then we'll finish out the year with a nice solid improvement in gross margins.
And that from where I sit is just absolutely outstanding in the sense that we had a very strong second quarter -- second half last year in a market that was growing better than it is growing this year.
And therefore the ability of our team to come in and hold results in a more difficult market in the second half of this year is a really really great work.
So I'm tickled to deal with what everybody's doing.
And what's left to do on the cost and margin improvement? I will start out by giving what I suspect is a lot of the CEOs' answers all around the world there's always more to do.
And we've got really great operating people who are very much after every single thing that we can wring out of the business through the supply chain through the manufacturing floor through design for manufacturing through the way we transport and deliver product and ultimately what the product experience feels like when our customers get it.
So my judgment is and I've talked about '13 we've still got more room in '14 and beyond in a lot of the investments we're making.
For instance in -- I just spoke today in the product development facilities at Mercury in capacity expansion at Mercury all bring efficiencies.
The new products that we're introducing which we haven't talked about today but we talked about in prior calls for instance at Mercury in our judgment are all going to be margin enhancers and that generally is the case across all of our businesses.
Our goal is as we move forward and we've been pretty open about it is anything we bring to the market needs to have a cost position equal to or less than the product it's replacing.
And our folks have been doing a really good job of hitting those targets.
So my judgment is we're going to continue to grow margins.
It will not yet.
200 basis point margin improvement in a relatively short time but we've got more room and we'll continue to do it.
Very helpful.
And then just secondly I was hoping you could talk a little bit about some of your new products and what their availability currently is.
I guess from the engine side of the business you spent a lot of last year trying to catch up with demand on the 150-horsepower outboard.
Have you caught up with demand there? And then I guess similarly on the boat side you came into this year with some really compelling new products certainly as we get towards the larger boats.
Everything that we're hearing is that they're extremely popular but maybe you're not keeping up with demand.
Is that ultimately potentially similar to engines this year more of a benefit for next year once you hopefully catch up with some of that demand? Well let's do engines first.
We described on the call and I don't know that my words were particularly artful.
I hope everybody understood them and I may confuse this even more by this discussion but in the first half of 2012 for a whole bunch of reasons we really couldn't meet demand.
And one of the reasons were just unbelievable demand in the first half in light of the very warm and dry spring we were having.
And so we went into the second half with a significant backlog.
And we worked really hard to improve our efficiencies productivity and units we could push through our system in the second half in order to lower that backlog to manageable levels and of course in doing so we pushed the sales line nicely in the second half.
I'm still on engines.
In the first half of this year we didn't have the same dynamic.
And in the second half of '13 we're not going to have the same dynamic where we were chasing the backlog.
Our backlog now is at very nice and manageable levels.
I think our team at Mercury has done a great job of forecasting and running an S&amp;OP process and delivering product off the floor that's consistent with demand and our outlook for demand.
So we've generally solved all of that.
Now over time and that's why we're making all the capacity expansion expenditures that we keep talking about is we're going to need more capacity at Mercury because we're nearing in the 4-stroke outboard categories driven by demand there but also our great new product.
We're going to need more capacity in order to take care of never having to have the sort of backlog that we had in 2012 and that's what we're investing to do.
On the Boat side a fair bit more complicated.
If we first start with our aluminum products both fish boats and pontoons a growing segment.
We're taking share very nicely there but I'm -- I think our guys are beginning to feel like they could be hitting a capacity wall at some point.
And that's why you heard us in the call today say that we're fine with having more boats and weeks on hand in the pipeline ending 2013 than we did in 2012 because we're always playing behind in that part of the business.
And this little bit of slowness in the first half particularly in the first quarter picked up nicely in the second quarter primarily weather-driven I don't want to be The Weather Channel and I'm trying not to talk about weather too much here has permitted us to get a little ahead and we're going to work hard in 2013 to stay ahead in the aluminum business so we can get a few more boats in the pipeline.
But ultimately we may have to invest in some more facilities for fish boats.
Now we have in pontoons the part of the commentary on the call we've made a big investment in a new facility.
We have not been able to meet demand probably disappointed both consumers and dealers.
So we're making an investment to take care of that.
If we look at our Fiberglass Outboard product which I particularly think of as one brand Boston Whaler.
Again we've got a heck of a lot of demand growing share.
And as we look at the product portfolio going forward it's likely going to be necessary that we're going to have to make some facility investments there in order to keep up demand.
And again just like in the aluminum business that's great.
We're happy to do it and it says a lot for the brands and the new products we're bringing to the marketplace.
When we go to our fiberglass sterndrive/inboard businesses we have a bit different situation.
Those markets are not recovering and if you look at the one chart that we showed with the smaller under 30 down 14% we said 31 to 40 is up 2.3% that's 15 boats just – and it's still an incredibly small marketplace.
And then for the larger category that is a 41 to 62 we said down 1.2% that's 4 boats in the market.
So we've continued to play in relatively small markets here in the U.S.
So what we've done is firstly taken out a lot of capacity so our system is adjusting to meeting demand in a smaller footprint.
And then when we add to that we've got a lot of new product coming and again our system has to incorporate that new product into a smaller footprint.
And I think there have been times we probably again disappointed some dealers and customers but we've positioned ourselves for especially in boats over 50 feet for a lot of new product coming to the marketplace that's why it's so important we manage the pipeline through the remainder of 2013.
And we're confident that our system now is prepared to incorporate these new boats into its production planning and get the boats out as we bring them to the market.
So James that's a very long answer to a short question but we think of it in several layers here.
Your next question comes from Mike Swartz from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question for you Dustan.
And I think previous call your outlook for the global marine market was kind of low single-digit growth.
I guess the first piece of this is is that still just your thought process for 2013? And then are you seeing a level of maybe pent-up demand in the market that gives you a little more confidence going into maybe the back half of the year as well as 2014? First Mike not prepared to really talk about 2014 to any great extent right now.
And my judgment is 2013 will play on out within the range that we said at the beginning of the year.
Slight -- I think I've said generally we thought the market could be up slightly but if it went any way different than that it would be down not up and that continues to be our view.
And if we step back the ultimate question for our investors and for those of you who follow us is ultimately where is this marine market going? And we – I'd probably warn everyone out talking about the factors that we think need to occur in order to really drive the improvement in this market.
And we've always said everybody needs to make their own judgment about whether those factors are in fact coming to fruition.
And our judgment had been we didn't think it was going to happen in 2012 and we were pretty open about that.
We think it's playing out that way.
Having said that we remain very confident about the ultimate growth in this market because we wouldn't be making all of the investments we're making if we were worried about this market.
We're spending a ton of money in investments in capacity in new product throughout all of our marine segments and in fact all of our businesses.
I think in the -- and that is how we think of this industry and business medium to long term.
Here in the shorter term which again we don't worry much quarter-to-quarter or rarely do we worry much year-on-year about where the overall market is going because we have a pretty good short-term view of what things are.
But it's clear that consumers are continuing to want product and if you look at the transactions that happened in used boats they are up in the market today versus before the recession.
So boats are trading hands at significant numbers in the used market and that is an indication that consumers want different product.
But right now they're going to use the market to get it.
That begins to inform us and we're doing a lot of consumer work several thousand people have been -- have helped us have a real look at where we think the market is going on a shorter-term basis.
And fundamentally consumers are of the view that the investment they need to make in new product in dollars time and effort is at a level they'd prefer to go to used.
We're very comfortable with that.
We're operating this company in that environment and we're continuing to view that this is all playing out generally as we thought it would Michael.
So we're relaxed.
And we again believe medium to long term everything's going to play out the way we had hoped.
And we have the flexibility the operating efficiency and a bunch of great people on the ground to deal with all the near-term fluctuation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then if we can just maybe shift gears to the -- some of the new model year '14 product that's coming out and I know it's early but can you maybe give us some more color on the feedback that you're hearing from dealers and others in the market? Well let's first deal with engines.
My judgment is the market is eagerly anticipating all that we have coming to the marketplace in engines.
When we think of and let's think of this in a couple of buckets the over 50 product and we have one -- in the boat market we have 1 new product out in that range and that's our 51 Sea Ray.
And I think the market acceptance has been outstanding.
And as we look at what the production requirements are at Sea Ray there's a heck of a lot of those getting built and it gives us great comfort that the rest of that product line above those lengths or that length is going to be just fine.
We've got a lot of product coming here in the second half below 50 feet.
And again through the work we do with our dealer network and through voice of the customer we're told that's going to sell well and we've just now got to get it out there and get going.
And your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dusty just a little clarification there.
Your comment on the global market of being up slightly.
Are you talking global marine including engines? Or you are just commenting on the Boat market? And then if you could just also just your view on the U.S.
boat market from -- for 2013.
Tim my view on the global boat market is what we've seen through the first half is likely to be played on out through the rest of the year.
Global engine market we will do fine globally in the engine market because of our strong brand presence and our really strong P&amp;A business because people continue to boat all around the world and use our product and we're going to be there to help dealers keep them on the water.
So the growth rates we see in the engine business in the first half aren't generally going to push on through the second half.
Again on a comparative basis I think third quarter is going to be difficult for comparison's sake because we pushed a lot of product out in the third quarter of last year.
And as I've been talking about we don't have the need to do that in the third quarter this year.
For the boat market this year in the United States again I don't see anything that's going to change the dynamics that we've seen through the first half Tim.
It's a pretty tough market.
Some parts are really doing great other parts are having trouble recovering and where it's doing great we want to be there taking share and making more money.
And where the market is weak we got to get our new product out and we got to get our pipeline healthy in order to get the dealers through all that.
Our judgment is that P&amp;A will continue to be a real driver of top line and earnings growth throughout the remainder of the year because our P&amp;A business is just so well positioned and with the share we have the fact that people continue to boat that'll fuel that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I know again you don't like to talk about weather that much but you pointed out what you...
I've been talking it a lot haven't I? For somebody who doesn't like to talk about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think Dusty again the strength in the market continues to be now for the third year in a row in the aluminum and in the outboard fiberglass.
Do you think that that market growth that we've seen year-to-date was restrained by weather? That it could have been more and then therefore obviously you're not that worried and given the lower dollar price points and so forth just any additional color on that.
Tim I do believe weather restrained the market.
It's difficult for me to give you an accurate statistical look at how much but in my judgment and I'm a boater I'm out all the time.
I know where I boat people are having to swim to their boats because -- even when it's docked because the lakes are so high.
I boat on the Ohio River.
I haven't been able to get my boat out but once in the past 3 weeks because the Ohio has been flooding and so much debris coming down the river.
There's no other recreational boaters out.
Everywhere we go and talk to people and work with dealers this weather has had an impact.
Now what we have to do as a business and we talk about this a lot is to be honest we have to ignore it because there's always going to be weather.
And if all we do is talk about weather then that's all we're going to -- if we talk about the weather all we're going to do is talk about the weather because there's always weather.
So we just have to keep to working our way through this.
But again I think there's no question boat sales not only in the aluminum and fiberglass outboard sales Tim but across all whole industry have been temped down by the weather in the first half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a clarification point if I may.
You said that the operating profits on boats will likely be negative this year.
Again on -- any -- are you excluding anything or is that just a straight reported basis? And then finally looking at 2014 I know you haven't given a lot of guidance but 2 things: Number one the investment spend would you anticipate that coming down as a percent of sales or being flattish in absolute terms? And the same question with CapEx as a percent of sales you're running 4% in '13 what -- should that come down a little bit in '14? Either Dusty or Bill.
I'll do the boats.
There won't be any adjustments on boats.
That's just the way we'd be reporting it.
Bill you want to say...
It's on an the x-items basis Tim so there's – it would include the typical adjustments.
On the investments spend side CapEx I think it's reasonable to assume that we continue to spend at the same levels on a percentage of sales basis that we're spending here in 2013 some of the capacity investments and new product investments that we're investing in this year continue into '14 and it'll keep them at that levels.
On the investment spending side R&amp;D operating expense sort of thing R&amp;D will continue to be strong.
I would expect operating expenses to maybe a level off a little bit but still go up because we'll continue to invest in growth initiatives.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So operating expenses Bill up absolute dollars but maybe lever a little bit as a percent of sales? Correct.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about your market share trends within boat categories? Clearly you guys have a disproportionate number of fiberglass boats but I'm interested in how your share trends are working within category.
Sure Craig thanks for the question.
Let me do it in 3 chunks if I may.
The first would be aluminum both fish boats and pontoons.
We are growing faster than the market in both those categories and we're taking share.
In the fiberglass outboard category we are growing faster than the market and taking share.
In the sterndrive/inboard range we are – to give an overall answer we are losing share but then let me chunk it up into 3 pieces and see -- so you'll see we're never happy we're losing share but it's also understandable to us and we think we have a good feel for what's happening.
If we think of smaller sterndrive boats there are 3 dynamics that are in play there: First there are several really great brands great brand leaders innovative people in the industry whose brands have not typically worked a lot above let's say 30 feet.
And therefore in a reduced market they have really keenly focused down below 30 feet and are doing a great job at it.
At the same time we made the decision for margin purposes primarily that we would reduce our model count down in this low range.
And then -- well and then with those 2 we just -- we've lost share.
We understood before we did this work that generally how it would play out.
And again there are some really really great competitors down there who are doing a great job.
So that's all settling out about like what we thought it would.
Let's say sort of 30 to 50 feet in the smaller size -- end of that range we've lost some share.
In the larger end of that range we've gained some share.
Net-net again we have a new dynamic in play for parts of this 30 to 50 segment and that is the U.S.
boat market has -- even though it's not growing a lot is still the best boat market in the world for a lot of competitors to come to.
And there are some great brands throughout the world for instance in Europe that are having great difficulty in their markets and they focused very much on coming to United States.
Now when all those brands come and we're talking about such very low unit counts remember I said this 2.3% growth in boats 31 to 40 is 15 boats across the whole industry.
So when you have a few of these really great brand names coming to the U.S.
trying to find a place to get some capacity in these very low counts 5 or 6 boats start to move share.
And that's what's been happening to us in that category.
We've been losing some share and we've got some new product coming.
Above 50 feet Craig we've been pretty open.
Our product line was stale.
We've got a lot of new product coming.
The first one was the 51 and we think it's doing -- I know it's doing great.
So as we bring this new product to market I think we're going to continue to have share difficulty until all the new product gets out.
And then our anticipation is once it gets out our share will be fine.
I hope -- that's a very long answer to your very short question.
And your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Although I'm -- Dusty you did just confuse me a little bit which is easy to do but I think you mentioned that the market is trending like you thought and your top line is trending like you thought but then you also mentioned you no longer expect the boat group to have positive operating earnings this year.
So can you just kind of reconcile that for me? And I guess as a follow-up if global retail demand was better than your slightly positive or up slightly assumption for second half do you think you could get above breakeven in the boat group? First sorry for the confusion and it's not from your ability to understand it's from my ability to articulate it.
Overall the market is performing just about like we thought it would.
But within segment there are differences.
So we did not anticipate as we thought as fiberglass sterndrive/inboard Jimmy where our view was it would be flat to down with an orientation toward down.
But we hadn't planned on as an example in under 30 feet being down 14% on a year-to-date basis.
So as that has begun to evolve we felt it's important that we make adjustments in our production in order to help manage the pipeline for the second half.
And as you know those are pretty high-dollar high-margin boats.
And as we do that that's what's causing our boat group in our view to have a high likelihood it won't be profitable in '13.
Now if the fiberglass sterndrive/inboard market were to really take off but I would tell you Jimmy it's our judgment it's not through the remainder of this year.
Yes of course we could be profitable very quickly.
It's just strictly taking units out.
Yes we're managing cost but we also want to be prepared for all the new product we have coming.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> That does.
And if I could just sneak a quick one in on the Fitness segment.
I'd just be interested in your outlook there for the balance of the year operating margins dipped just slightly year-to-date.
Just interested in what's driving that? And if you see an opportunity to show operating margin improvement in that segment during the back half of the year? Sure.
We said as early as the spring of 2012 that we anticipated our Fitness business would be under some operating margin pressure driven by the fact that many of the -- our Fitness business competitors through a whole range of reasons many times having not to do with their ability to operate and the product they had had been going through difficulty.
And our view was the beginning in '12 through '13 '14 '15 they were going to make a big effort to come back in the marketplace and we anticipated significant pricing pressures at the customer level.
And that's all beginning to unfold just like we thought it would.
I think we had in our 2012 big analyst meeting where we ranged our ability to produce earnings and margins through '14 we had I think lowered -- we'd said 12% to 14% would be their operating margins.
I think as we're watching that it's not going to be on the low side of that.
And I think we ought to finish out the year in general with the sort of margins that you see us having produced in the first half.
But I don't think there's a lot of opportunity for great margin improvement because as we're watching this marketplace it is really getting from a pricing standpoint to be a tough place to be.
And we're holding up very well and we got -- and that's why we're so focused Jimmy on a lot of new product so that we begin to take the margin pressure off our business there.
And your next question comes from Joe Yurman from 1221 Capital Management.
LLC</strong> My question is about bowling retail.
I've only really just started to take a look at this and so my first question is about -- so we had 95 centers and now we've divested 7 so we have 88 is my math right? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So now how asset-intensive is the business? Do we own these facilities? Are they leased? We own them.
Yes we own them.
LLC</strong> Okay we own them all.
60% -- 60% 65% are owned.
LLC</strong> Got you okay.
And now with respect to Tavern '45 and I understand for competitive reasons you may not want to get into this and I'm hoping you'll get into more of this at the Analyst Day but is this an in-house initiative? Have you been working with some third parties particularly in culinary and things like that how should I think about that? We have been working with a third party to design the menus to train the chefs to help us understand how to change the service experience.
And I feel you heading towards the -- exactly the right way about how to think about this.
The typical bowling center has been experiencing movement from folks who come in and do league play to open play.
And generally across the industry although we have been bucking that on the same-store sales basis but within centers.
But across the industry the top lines have been under a lot of pressure when the league players aren't showing up because they're a great source of revenue.
They're there every week.
They spend a certain amount.
You know how to staff in order to take care of the leagues and all that is different with open play.
But what our bowling retail folks have begun to notice is there was a form of hybrid bowling activity that was experiencing double-digit growth fairly consistently and that activity is one where bowling is the primary recreational activity.
But there are also great food great customer service great lounge areas et cetera and if you begin to think about those sort of activities the restaurant the food and beverage part of the business begins to approach half the revenue of those sorts of centers and in our present centers it's nothing like that high.
So then our bowling retail folks began to really think their way through how they needed to change internally.
And the internal change is to become a business that's very very customer consumer-centered bowling centric if you will.
And they've made the decision that they were going to pilot 3 places 2 in Georgia as I said 1 here in Chicago.
That one opened getting ready to open the second one we'll open the third one in the fall.
And we knew as fit as our people are we needed help to understand things we just didn't know.
So yes we have had outside help around the food and beverage activity and we've made great additions internally with food and beverage expertise.
And within all that we're just quite confident that this is going to work out well for us.
LLC</strong> And with respect to that and it may be too early to quantify but can you kind of maybe qualitatively just talk about the sales lift as you've kind of retrofitted these 2 facilities in the Atlanta area? From a target perspective it's 50%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is I picked up during your prepared remarks about there are certain competitive advantages that you enjoy in your bowling business.
All else equal let's say that I was competing against Brunswick and operating one of these centers to what extent are these competitive advantages ROI enhancing versus just maybe the one-off who is going to do this in the area? Well because of the number of centers we operate compared to only one other big operator who's coming out of their second or third bankruptcy I kind of forget we demonstrated an ability to bring both nice ROI not particularly high but it's steady.
It's more bond like if you will.
We make the investments in these centers and we know how it's going to churn out returns over a very long period of time.
And our competitive advantage here is we have great folks who've been at this a long time we're extremely disciplined in the way we do it.
We don't leverage these things way up and we just continue to churn through.
So that's been our advantage.
And at this time we would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
As always we appreciate the questions that we get.
They're always very insightful.
And actually we always look forward to this day.
We're confident where we're going.
We're relaxed.
We wish we were getting more help from the marketplace but we don't need it.
And we're prepared to live in a world in which we've been handed cards.
We're going to play these cards and do well.
So thanks everybody for being with us on this call.
And we look forward to seeing you individually and in other group events as we get through the next quarter.
And most importantly we look forward to seeing you all in our November investor conference.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That concludes the presentation you may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation's 2013 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in Supplemental Information section of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's release.
I would like to remind you that as a result of our decision to exit and the subsequent sale of Hatteras and CABO on August 5 the results of these businesses and the impact of that sale are reflected in discontinued operations.
These figures in the presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dustan McCoy.
Thanks Bruce and good morning everyone.
I'll start with an overview of our third quarter results.
Our revenue in the quarter increased 2%.
We experienced growth in fitness equipment marine parts and accessories outboard boats and bowling product businesses partially offset by declines in fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats U.S.
outboard and sterndrive engines and retail bowling.
During our second quarter call we stated that our revenue growth rates in this quarter are going to be affected by fiberglass sterndrive boat pipeline reductions challenging comparisons in our engine businesses and lower retail bowling sales due to the divestiture of our European centers.
These factors unfolded as we had planned.
Our third quarter gross margins increased by 10 basis points compared to the prior year which is consistent with our previously stated expectations.
For the 9 months our gross margin is up 80 basis points.
This outstanding improvement in our year-to-date results reflects our ability to execute against our strategy and generate operating efficiencies and leverage.
Operating expenses increased by 6% and this includes an 8% increase in R&amp;D develop -- R&amp;D expenses as we continued to invest in our numerous strategic initiatives.
Adjusted operating earnings decreased by 6% versus prior year with our Boat segment being the primary contributor to this decline.
Year-to-date our adjusted operating earnings are up 11%.
Continuing down the P&amp;L net interest expense excluding debt extinguishment losses was reduced by $8 million reflecting our strong free cash flow and the subsequent benefit from our substantially completed debt reduction plan.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted increased by 18% to $0.59 for the quarter and was up 25% for the 9 months.
For this year we are increasing our estimate of 2013 diluted EPS as adjusted to a range of $2.65 to $2.70 per share.
This is the result of our solid year-to-date performance and a lower-than-anticipated tax rate.
As I mentioned sales in the quarter grew by 2%.
Life Fitness reported strong top line improvement of 9%.
Mercury sales increased by 2% which was lower than the prior 2 quarters but consistent with our previous comments regarding second half growth rates.
In Boat and Bowling &amp; Billiards sales declined by 2% in each segment again consistent with our expectations.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales were flat in the quarter.
Sales to Europe increased by 14% and rest of world sales were up 1% versus the prior year.
In the first 9 months of the year our sales increased by 3% slightly under our full year guidance of 4%.
Consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 4% sales to Europe were up 5% and rest of world sales were up 1% versus the prior year.
Adjusted operating earnings were $66.7 million for the quarter a decrease of $4.3 million or 6% compared to 2012.
Operating margins x charges increased by 60 basis points to 7.5%.
The decrease in operating margins includes the impact of a 6% increase in operating expenses resulting from investments and strategic initiatives.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $302.9 million for the first 9 months an increase of 11% compared to 2012.
Operating margins x charges increased 70 basis points to 10.1% due mostly to improvements in gross margins.
Net earnings for the quarter were $0.61 per share including $0.03 of charges for restructuring and a $0.05 benefit from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share as adjusted equaled $0.59 per share.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $0.50 per share in prior year.
In summary our EPS as adjusted increased by $0.09 or 18%.
Diluted earnings per share for the first 9 months were $2.05 per share including a $0.12 restructuring charge $0.31 of losses from debt retirement and a $0.10 charge for the special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share would have been $2.58 per share.
This compares to diluted earnings per share as adjusted of $2.07 per share in the prior year.
As adjusted our first 9 months EPS increased by $0.51 or 25%.
Now let's take a look at our operating segments and we'll start with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective third quarter sales for U.S.
markets were up 2% led by growth in parts and accessories partially offset by lower engine sales.
Sales from Mercury's European customers increased 8% led by a solid growth rate in all major product categories.
Rest of world sales increased modestly year-over-year.
In the aggregate sales increased 2% for the quarter.
For the first 9 months of the year Mercury sales increased by 5%.
From a product category perspective our U.S.
outboard engine business sales were down as a result of the difficult comparisons to the third quarter of 2012.
As we discussed on our last conference call in the first half of 2012 demand for outboard engines increased double digits which outpaced Mercury's production capabilities leading to a high level of backorders at the close of the period.
As Mercury entered the back half of 2012 they have successfully taken several actions to increase capacity and production flexibility and made excellent progress over the second half of 2012 lowering the level of backorders and increasing sales.
In fact sales of U.S.
outboard engines increased by over 30% in the second half of 2012 versus 2011.
This dynamic contributed to the sales growth for the outboard business in the first half of 2013 as Mercury successfully met demand for its products in the current year.
This relationship is somewhat reversed in the second half of 2013 as the benefit from shipments to decrease high outboard product backorders in the second half of 2012 is not being repeated in 2013.
In any event solid retail performance in the outboard boat categories continued in the third quarter.
As a result Mercury continued to experience strong outboard demand especially for 150-horsepower FourStroke as well as for the Verado engine family and engines in the 75- 90- and 115-horsepower range.
Unfavorable global retail trends along with reductions in both dealer inventories continued to affect revenues from sterndrive engines.
Mercury's parts and accessories businesses reported sales increases in all major markets reflecting stable boating participation new product launches and market share gains.
Record year-to-date sales were achieved by Attwood and Land 'N' Sea through the third quarter of 2013.
Attwood's award-winning portable and integrated fuel systems continue to be an important contributor to Mercury's P&amp;A business.
And Land 'N' Sea continues to growth through product line and distribution expansion.
Mercury's adjusted operating earnings were up slightly compared to last year's third quarter.
Operating margins were 14.7% which is 20 basis points lower than the prior year on an as-adjusted basis.
This operating earnings performance reflects the benefit of higher sales particularly by parts and accessories which were mostly offset by spending on growth initiatives.
Now let's take a look at our Boat segment.
The third quarter revenues decreased by 2% compared to the prior period.
In the United States which represents about 2/3 of the segment sales were down 3%.
We continue to experience growth in the United States aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat categories which was more than offset by our strategy to reduce fiberglass sterndrive boat pipelines in response to retail demand and to prepare for new product introductions.
In the quarter our sales to Europe increased 12%.
For the 9 months sales to Europe were down 4%.
Rest of world sales decreased by 1% as a result of higher sales in South America specifically Brazil which was more than offset by declines in other regions.
Take a look at the United States powerboat industry statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Inc.
to get a view of how demand is unfolding by boat category in the United States.
As we previously stated it appeared weather influenced first half comparisons of retail demand between periods.
Preliminary third quarter data as reported in Soundings Trade Only indicates that aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat markets demonstrated excellent growth and have improved sequentially throughout 2013 with the pontoon category leading the outboard market with an 11% year-to-date growth rate.
This strong demand can be partly attributed to more normal weathering patterns in the third quarter.
Fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boat market experienced declines in the quarter and for the year-to-date period.
Weather combined with consumer shifts in this category to other boat types such as pontoons competition with used boats and continuing reluctance of the typical buyer in this category to re-enter the market contributed to lower industry sales.
Overall the entire U.S.
retail powerboat market grew 14% in the quarter and is now up 3% year-to-date.
Global retail unit sales of Brunswick boats in the third quarter increased by 11% reflecting strong performance in our outboard boat categories.
Global wholesale shipments increased by 2% while wholesale dollars declined compared to prior year due to the unfavorable change in product mix including the effect of pipeline reduction activities on our sales.
Year-to-date global retail shipments are up 3% while wholesale shipments are flat versus the prior year.
Regarding our pipelines dealers entered the quarter at 25 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis which compares to 26 weeks on hand a year earlier.
Pipelines for aluminum product are up over last year's levels on a unit basis and weeks on hand determining -- determined on a trailing 12-month retail basis are also higher by approximately 1 week.
The pipeline levels in this category are at appropriate levels as pipelines in the prior year were below desired levels for our dealers.
Pipelines for fiberglass sterndrive/inboard product continued to decline to record low levels and weeks on hand are lower by approximately 2 weeks versus prior year levels reflecting our continued efforts to lower pipelines as we and our dealers respond to weak market conditions and prepare for new product introductions.
Our plans for the remainder of the year contemplate favorable retail -- I'm sorry favorable revenue comparisons in the segment as we raise dealer inventory levels in advance of the selling season particularly in higher growth outboard categories.
We're also anticipating benefits from our operations in Brazil.
The Boat segment's third quarter adjusted operating loss increased by $3.8 million when compared to the prior year.
This earnings reduction resulted from the previously discussed declines in sales of fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats and increased product development related cost.
Partially offsetting these negative factors were the benefit from higher aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat sales as well as the fiberglass boat cost-reduction activities initiated in 2012 and 2013.
As a result of the incremental pipeline reductions we took in our fiberglass sterndrive categories in the third quarter it's unlikely that we'll achieve positive earnings in our Boat segment in 2013.
Now let's turn our attention to our 2 recreational segments.
Sales in Life Fitness increased by 9% when compared to last year's third quarter.
The increase reflected strong gains in the international markets including 25% growth in Europe which is now up 17% year-to-date.
Growth in Europe reflects benefits from new products and distribution enhancements along with improved market conditions.
Sales growth in the U.S.
health club and hospitality customers were partially offset by lower sales to local and federal government customers.
Operating earnings as adjusted increased by 9% as the benefits from higher sales were partially offset by growth initiative investments.
Billiards [ph] &amp; Bowling &amp; Billiards decreased by 2% compared to last year's third quarter.
An increase in bowling products was more than offset by the impact of a reduction in retail center count as well as lower United States equivalent retail center sales.
For the 9 months U.S.
equivalent retail sales are up modestly.
Third quarter adjusted operating earnings decreased by about $2 million as improved bowling products earnings were more than offset by lower sales and earnings in retail bowling as well as investment in growth initiatives.
During the quarter our bowling organization substantially completed the divestiture of its European bowling center portfolio consisting of 7 locations.
The absence of these centers will be modestly beneficial to the segment's operating earnings going forward.
This action is a reflection of the ongoing efforts by the bowling retail team to enhance our bowling center portfolio.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill who'll give us a closer look at our financials.
Thank you Dusty.
Let me start with a discussion of our debt outstanding which at the end of the third quarter was $465 million a reduction of $107 million versus year end 2012.
During the quarter we retired $7 million of our 2023 and 2027 notes and incurred a very small amount of debt extinguishment losses on these retirements.
While our debt-reduction activities are largely completed we may continue to opportunistically retire debt to a balance below our target of $450 million.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense and interest income was $8.3 million in the quarter a decrease of $8 million versus the same period in 2012.
The reduction was the result of lower debt balances as well as a favorable interest rate on our 2021 notes issued in the second quarter of this year.
Our quarterly run rate of net interest expense is about $8.2 million.
For the full year we expect net interest expense to be approximately $43 million excluding extinguishment losses associated with debt returns.
Foreign currency had a minimal impact on sales and a favorable impact on operating earnings comparisons for the quarter reflecting a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements including the impact of hedging activity.
We anticipate that these trends will continue for the full year comparisons.
Our tax provision on an as-adjusted basis was $3.3 million compared to $6.9 million in the third quarter of 2012.
These amounts exclude the tax impact of onetime charges such as restructuring charges debt extinguishment losses and any nonrecurring special tax adjustments.
The effective tax rate on and an as-adjusted basis was 5.6% for the third quarter of 2013 versus 12.9% a year ago.
Our current full year estimated effective tax rate for 2013 on an as-adjusted basis is approximately 10% which is lower than the prior year and our previous estimate for 2013.
I would also like to remind you about the possible reversal of a significant portion of our tax valuation allowance reserves in the fourth quarter.
This noncash earnings benefit is excluded from our estimated 2013 tax rate as adjusted.
As we have previously discussed this possible change in treatment will raise our book tax rate in 2014.
We will provide more specific guidance on our book and cash tax rate for 2014 in our Investor Day in a few weeks.
Turning to our review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations in the first 9 months was $157.7 million a solid improvement of $22.6 million versus the prior year.
Seasonal changes in our primary working capital accounts resulted in use of cash in the first 9 months and totaled approximately $129 million.
The biggest changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $66 million and accrued expenses which decreased by $58 million.
Given the seasonality of sales in our marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital during the fourth quarter with a corresponding benefit to free cash flow.
Total free cash flow from continuing operations totaled $71.1 million versus $90.9 million in the prior year.
Capital spending in the first 9 months increased $3 million versus the prior year to approximately $96 million which included investments in capacity expansion and in new products in all businesses.
Free cash flow in 2013 also included approximately $8 million in proceeds from the sale of property plant and equipment in our marine segments.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which has enabled us to reach our debt-reduction targets and will also allow us to continue to fund future investments and growth.
In summary cash and marketable securities totaled $348 million at the end of the third quarter.
Decline from year end includes the net impact of debt-reduction activities partially offset by continued strong free cash flow.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for the full year.
We currently estimate that restructuring charges to be in the $15 million to $17 million range in 2013.
Charges reflect activities pertaining to the Boat segment plant consolidations initiated during the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 as well as previously mentioned divestitures of our European bowling centers.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $85 million to $90 million.
We expect our 2013 pension expense to be approximately $19 million which is a decrease of $5 million from 2012.
In 2013 the company plans on making cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plan of approximately $50 million.
Our plan continues to reflect capital expenditures that approximate 4% of projected sales with a substantial portion directed at growth and profit-enhancing projects.
Our working capital performance will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions.
Our current estimates for working capital reflect the use of cash for the full year in the range of $35 million to $45 million.
Despite higher investment spending levels and the usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate positive free cash flow for the full year generally consistent with prior year levels.
I will now turn the call back to Dusty for some concluding comments.
Thanks Bill.
Well let's wrap this up with me providing you with our outlook for the full year of 2013.
Our operating plans for the remainder of the year continue to reflect an uneven recovery in U.S.
powerboat market with our outboard board and engine products and global parts and accessories businesses generating growth.
Our assumptions continue to reflect unchanged market conditions for fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats.
In our recreation businesses positive health and wellness trends combined with exciting new products have positioned our Fitness business to continue its strong top line performance and deliver excellent results again in 2013 and our bowling businesses should further benefit from operating efficiencies.
We continue to target 4% growth rate in overall revenue in 2013.
Our current full year plan reflects a solid improvement in gross margin levels.
Our organic growth platform will benefit from increased investments in capital projects and research and development programs along with the SG&amp;A to support them.
As a result of these initiatives full year operating expenses as a percentage of sales are expected to be comparable to 2012 levels.
For the full year we will also benefit from lower net interest expense and pension costs as well as a lower effective tax rate on an adjusted basis.
Partially offsetting these factors is the effect of higher diluted shares outstanding.
As a result of our solid year-to-date performance and lower-than-anticipated tax rates we are increasing our expectation for 2013 diluted earnings per share for continuing operations as adjusted to a range of $2.65 to $2.70 per diluted share.
The midpoint of this range would represent a 28% growth rate over the $2.09 we earned in 2012.
I'll also note that yesterday we issued a release announcing that our board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share payable December 13 2013.
This reflection increased over the annual dividend of $0.05 per share we paid in 2012.
Increasing the amount of dividend reflects the confidence we have in our business strategy and our demonstrating capabilities to execute against that strategy.
Our progress and accomplishments during the most challenging of global marine market conditions are a testimony to the strength of our brands the soundness of our business plan and most importantly the capabilities and resilience of our employees around the world.
Before we start taking your questions I'd like to remind you of our 2013 Investor Day scheduled to occur on November 12 in New York City at the New York Stock Exchange.
We plan to update the investment community on progress made since we communicated our 3-year strategic plan in February 2012 but more importantly to provide a new 3-year plan reflecting the period 2014 to 2016.
If you have any more questions regarding this event please free to give Bruce a call.
Thanks.
Now I'll turn the call back to the operator so that we can take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Dusty let's talk about this uneven recovery in the industry just a little bit.
Obviously from an overall industry perspective we saw nice acceleration in the third quarter but we continue to talk about this fiberglass sterndrive/inboard being down.
I guess I kind of feel like that you guys have a little bit of a disservice in that the assumption is that the big boats still aren't selling and that the little boats are selling when within that fiberglass segment at least what we saw in July and August suggests that cruisers and yachts are actually doing really well.
I guess do you sort of agree with that? And I know some of this was colored by September where we didn't get the Coast Guard data.
But the segments where it seems like you guys are focusing on seem like from an industry perspective are doing a little bit better.
Can you sort of speak to that? I don't know if we do ourselves a disservice by slicing and dicing the numbers as much as we do but talk a little bit about that diversions.
Sure.
Well first I'm glad to talk to you and thanks for joining the call.
Here's what I think is the real world.
We need to just step back for a moment.
Yes the cruisers and sport yachts and yachts on a percentage basis are up really nicely.
In Q3 cruisers are up 11% 12% sport yachts and yachts are up 17% and those percentages sound wonderful.
But there's a but in here and that's why we're not ready to declare James victory if you will and that the market has done a turn.
Third quarter is pretty good quarter.
We had great weather.
Normally there's a fair bit of volume.
But unfortunately in this market the cruiser market being up over 11% was 28 units.
And for sport yachts and yachts being up 17% that was 27 units and that contrast with -- where we see aluminum fish up of 15%.
There we're talking about 1 000 units.
Pontoon is up almost 20% that's 1 500 units more; and in the fiberglass outboard which is up almost 19% that's 1 400 units.
So if the trend continues yes we're going to be extremely pleased.
But because of the small volume in the third quarter James that we're just not ready to say that we think that the turn has really happened.
I think the other thing we've all got to acknowledge is I think the pause button was hit by a lot of businesses in view of the debacle in Washington.
And the kind of the folks our customers who buy these larger boats are strong business people.
And as we have kicked the can forward in Washington to the first quarter I think we've all got to be realistic that until the events in Washington unfold and hopefully something real happens the pause button is probably being hit but we're not fast forwarding right now.
And we're just going to need to wait for that to unfold early in 2014 for us to get a real view of whether this is real and how it's going to continue.
Makes a lot of sense.
I guess my second question I thought probably the most important revelation you gave us is that global retail -- I think you said global retail unit growth was 11% in the quarter just -- I guess first question is that the right number? That's the right number.
Okay.
That seems like a really good number in a quarter where in some key segments you were looking to bring down inventory levels.
I guess talk about the makeup maybe of that 11%.
You talked about industry cruisers being up 28% and yachts being up 27%.
Did you get your fair share of that? And ultimately would that number maybe have been a little bit higher if you weren't bringing down inventories? I guess another way to ask that is what do you think the dollar growth looked like at retail in the quarter? Yes if I may let me go at it this way.
There in the fastest-growing segments in this market our brands and our folks are taking share really nicely and that's in aluminum fish pontoon and outboard fiberglass.
In our outboard fiberglass that's just one brand Whaler but our Whaler team is doing a great job of taking share in increasing dollars.
When we get to the sterndrive/inboard product we are not gaining share right now.
And in fact my judgment is we're probably losing a little share but we probably need to point out to everybody this is according to plan right now and that's why we're taking down pipelines.
And if we look at it in the following way that the story unfolds this way.
There's a lot of small products where we've just taken models out.
We don't make that good of money.
A lot of wonderful brands and great customers in Mercury are moving in to those categories.
It's very competitive.
And we've made the decision we'll not continue in a big way as we did in the past to continue to put models in the marketplace there.
In other places -- and let's give that a size range.
That's say under 23 feet.
Then as we get up to say 40 feet or so again it's a part of our desire to reduce the complexity in our operations.
We have also made the decision during this particular time frame to take some models out of the lineup.
And we carefully chose those models probably didn't have the margin that the models we kept have and we wanted to get our business really positioned for what we believe will ultimately be a time of growth.
In the bigger boats say 40 feet and above a couple of things are going on.
I would say sitting here today that our modern lineup is not as fresh as we would like and we've acknowledged that but we're also making enormous investment in boats in that 40- to 65-foot time frame.
And they will begin to come out I think we've got a great one down at the Fort Lauderdale Boat Show.
And then we've got the whole string of boats then coming out in the remainder of '14 and in the first part of '15 in that category.
And as we knew we had those products come to the market again we made the decision.
Let's lower the pipeline.
Don't produce the boats.
Don't put them out there and get this market -- get our dealers and ourselves positioned for doing really well in those larger boats.
So this is all for us according to plan.
We're very relaxed about where it is.
We're investing a ton of money.
And I'll just make one other comment James it's not directly related to your question.
If you notice in every business segment we're acknowledging that we are reducing operating earnings from what would normally be occurring because we're making significant investments in each of our businesses.
And we made the decision going into '13 in this company that we were going to invest in growth in a significant way and you're seeing it in our significantly increased capital expenditures and in our growing operating expenses led by R&amp;D.
I think we described in the quarter that our operating -- our operating expenses are up 6% but R&amp;D is up 8%.
And then of -- the remainder of our operating expenses that are up other than R&amp;D it is in order to get ourselves bulked up to support sales and marketing and activities that would drive the growth as we get all the new product ready.
So that's what we're about right now.
And you hit the nail on the head in your question.
And it was a great question.
And we're -- we know what we're doing.
It is -- we're playing this out.
Lord knows if we're going to be perfect in our plan but we're pretty comfortable with our plan and it's evolving the way we wanted it to.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> And I just wanted to follow up on the last answer you gave which was you have a significant investment.
And when will -- when would you expect to see the benefits of that hitting the P&amp;L? I'm going to try to encourage attendance at our November 12 meeting Greg.
Come to the November 12 meeting [indiscernible] how that stuff unfolds.
Research Division</strong> Good way to build to attendance there.
And this might be another question you push off as well.
But just in terms of getting a handle on the relationship between retail and wholesale in 2014 how should we be kind of thinking about the -- about that relationship? I think for everything but our bigger boats we ought to easily fall back in the wholesale equals retail.
I think they're going to be in some bigger boat categories as we continue to roll out boats new boats Greg.
We will not be putting some of the older models into the pipeline.
So I suspect as we go through '14 it won't be nearly as equal as -- let's say 50 feet and above as you'll see it in other categories.
And again that's all per our plan.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And then just based on maybe latest discussions you've had with you dealer customers how's the retail environment been developing over the last month or so which maybe wasn't reflected in the September stat service? Continues to feel good.
And a lot of that maybe until the last week or so was driven by nice weather all around the nation.
I don't -- actually Greg I've forgotten where you live but it's cold here in Chicago.
And I'm still boating on the weekend down at Kentucky but I'm wearing a jacket and I love to boat.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Swartz from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on Europe and I know we don't talk about it a lot but I mean Europe being up kind of mid-teens.
Could you give us maybe some color around what's going on there? I know it's been weak over the past several years in particular but the Boat business looked like it was up nicely and Fitness has been growing there over the past several quarters.
So maybe just a little more granularity about what you're seeing there if you're starting to see a turn.
Why don't we do it if we could just by segment.
First Bowling &amp; Billiards wouldn't look as good because we sold the centers in Europe.
Fitness as we said during our prepared remarks was really up nicely.
I think 25% in the quarter.
I mean as we said it's a combination of 3 things: new product new distribution and then we're seeing some growth in that market in the fitness industry.
And I think we're getting more than our fair share there.
In the Marine business it's probably more there that the market is slightly improving rather than declining.
Last year at this time we were still suffering some pretty tough declines.
I won't say that the market is taking off in Marine but it is settled out maybe some slight improvement and again I think we're getting our fair share.
And there's probably some dealers who were just too low maybe some in P&amp;A and things like that who needed to get themselves stocked up in order to get take care of demand.
So in Marine I don't see any remarkable recovery but boy we have stopped the decline over there.
And then if I do a little subsegment we have some great European boat models that we include in our boat numbers.
And we've had great new product and we had a particular brand over there in the Nordics that has really come back strong through new distribution as well as new product.
The other brand is going it through a new product and we've seen nice increases in retail and wholesale there.
And then just in terms of maybe Europe the marine market showing a little bit of stabilization.
I mean how does that play into how you think about just the global marine industry going into 2014 in terms of -- in the past you said your outlook was a kind of base case of flat to up 5 growth? I mean how does that change that if it does? Mike what I'd like to do is wait until we get to our November conference and we'll talk about what we're thinking about markets look like after '13; and in our earnings call in January we talk about -- what we think about '14.
I can give you a better look.
I'm a little reluctant right now to get out on a limb about what we think the markets look like in '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well sir a couple things here.
Brazil you called that out specifically as benefiting the growth rates and that's been a focus.
You've got the assembly operation up and running there last year.
Was that the driver of the benefit in the quarter was that more of a -- the initial pipeline fill into the dealers? Or how are you seeing the sell-through? And then do you see here in the very near future where do you see that normalizing and getting up to the sort of the playing so to speak on the water here with the run rate? Tim when we spoke about Brazil we are really talking about fourth quarter and beyond.
We didn't really see any benefit in this quarter in Brazil any significant benefit in that account.
What's happening down in Brazil then as we get to fourth quarter our plant's up and running.
It's running nicely.
We've gotten -- we've gotten product into distribution now and we have great distribution.
They've got now some experience with us on quality of product how to sell et cetera.
We just completed a big boat show down there and we did really well.
We met all of our targets.
So that's a market where as you go in brand-new and you start growing with a new plant new distribution it just takes time.
I'm again Tim reluctant to tell you what run rates are going to be going forward but I think as we -- we're just starting the season down there.
I think by the time we get to January here which will be mid season there we'll have pretty good view of how that market is performing.
But it's a market we're very upbeat about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then you had talked here over the last year or so now obviously you think the way through all the challenges the financial crisis yet things are still ramping up slowly here domestically from an overall economy standpoint.
But looking at areas that you hadn't focused on one is Brazil obviously we just discussed that.
But maybe other geographic white spaces.
Can you kind of just briefly again Dusty remind us there? And then would there be any product white spaces or segments of the marine market that maybe you might look at? You're peeling off some of the areas where obviously volumes aren't that great and then you don't anticipate them coming back that quickly but maybe other areas that you might look at? Sure.
Let's do geographic first.
We'll probably need to focus on just the segments again.
We called out we're having great growth in our Fitness business outside United States.
And as we look at continuing growth areas and those that stay strong we would say South Latin America and Asia-Pacific will be nice focuses for us in our Fitness business.
As we look at our Engine business we think Tim that probably the 2 biggest geographic growth areas for us will be P&amp;A outside the United States and commercial markets for our outboard engines.
And that would be -- as we think of those commercial markets a strong focus there in Asia Pacific region.
As we look at product white spaces I'm going to be careful here for competitive reasons but I can call out one.
We've just introduced our Sea Ray guys did a new 35-foot barrel rider.
Really good segment has been those really large barrel riders twin-engine boats that would normally have been only cruiser-type boats.
And that's a place we've just not participated.
We had a 30-footer but we didn't have anything above 30 foot.
Our 30-footers have done really really well.
So this 35-footer as an example we're really excited about.
And as we walk through both our engine and both product plan over the next 5 to 10 years and our guys do a very good job by having very long product plans and then we know where we're going to be investing and what we want to go do.
We're pretty excited about a lot of the product white spaces.
And perhaps in our November meeting we'll try to raise the curtains just enough so that you'll see feet under there know that it's real but we're trying not to show you what they look like.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley and Company.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have actually been answered but I just have a couple of follow-ups.
So first just sticking on the growth investments I think you previously expected the Q3 operating expenses would be up about 10% year-over-year.
And it looks like it came in just under -- up 6%.
I'm just trying to understand if any of those planned growth investments were deferred? Or maybe you could just help by providing some context on how expense growth will fare relative to sales growth as we head into 2014.
Great question.
No we haven't deferred anything.
It's still pedal to the metal.
And it's a timing issue.
We just couldn't quite get everything done we had hoped to in the third quarter but as we're looking ahead to the fourth quarter my suspicion is we'll do a little catch-up versus what we did in the third quarter as well as continue with the spending we've planned in the fourth quarter Jimmy.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe I wasn't clear.
I was just interested in how that would fare as we move into 2014? And maybe it'd be helpful to -- if you could share like an operating leverage target or something to just kind of frame how we should think about expenses trending with sales into 2014? Again Jimmy I'm going to keep encouraging attendance in our November meeting.
We'll give you a good view of '14 and beyond.
And that leverage question is we know an important question for everyone.
We'll try to do our -- as good a job as we know how and laying that out so people can see and have a good feel.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll look forward to that.
So then I think it was -- Dusty in your response to -- I think it was James' first question on boat categories was really helpful.
But I just wanted to attack that from Mercury's angle.
Because I think at the retail level there now seems to be a fairly significant divergence taking place where the inboard market is improving but the sterndrives continue to trend negative.
Can you just talk about how you see that impacting Mercury's business given the dominance in sterndrives? And I think they have a very small presence in inboards.
And then as you pointed out just a difference in end market sizes makes sterndrive so significant.
Yes.
Well first what we think is happening to some extent there's a lot of former sterndrive customers are becoming outboard customers.
And we have great market strength especially in freshwater outboard.
And we've turned our outboard business around through a bunch of great work from our Mercury team and it's a pretty darn profitable business right now.
So yes we would like the sterndrive market to come back and start growing but it's not right now.
But we're benefiting fine in the outboard business especially Jimmy when it's fresh water.
And that's what most of this is that sterndrive conversion and the people are going to outboard is primarily freshwater.
And our market share in freshwater is significantly higher than our overall market share is because we don't do as well in saltwater as we do in freshwater.
So from Mercury's perspective we're doing just fine.
We would like there to be more sterndrive customers.
We're coming out with our new sterndrive engine next year.
It has -- it is going to have lots of features that no consumer has ever seen on a sterndrive engine before and we think that's important as we move away from the GM blocks and we own this whole franchise that we bring to the market something that others haven't seen.
And we're confident that we'll begin to stop the erosion in the sterndrive market.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
The next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about some of your new products like the Element.
It does appear that your -- there's an opportunity for you to enter both segments at lower prices and maybe generate more volume.
I'm interested in the consumer reaction to that if you will lower price strategy.
The Element is a tremendous success for us.
We're actually making and selling a fair bit more than what we thought we would.
So a question for us is is that a boat type with the sort of price target versus the competition that we would want to continue to grow with? And if we look back now to Jimmy's last question which is a good question the Element is an outboard product versus a sterndrive product.
But yes we think there's room in the market for a well-priced product.
And we think the Bayliner brand is a good place to bring that.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Dusty occasionally you have comment on used boat prices at -- in both aluminum categories and some of the fiberglass categories.
Well the used boat market in my judgment right now continues to be the biggest competitor any boat brand in America has today.
That used boat market is continuing to grow nicely.
It's outgrowing new boat sales.
And I get it.
And our judgment again is that over time the used boat market will begin to convert to new boats and it's important that all of us who make new boats understand the price disparity between new and used and we got to work hard to close that disparity.
Because our judgment is that the used buyer really still wants the boat.
They're boating.
They want a different boat.
They just made the decision to buy used right now.
The number of great used product well just by the passage of time continue to decline.
But again those of us who are boat builders really need to understand and make it one of our priorities that we reduce the cost of new boats.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Any expense in the quarter associated with the cancellation of the jet boat project? And are there any thoughts of restarting that effort later on down the road? And finally were there any start-up costs associated with that that we won't be anniversary-ing next year? Yes Derek.
It's Bill Metzger.
Yes there were some cost recorded associated with exiting or deciding to terminate that program in Q3 that will not occur in '14.
And at this point in time there's no plan to get back into that category.
Are those expenses flowing through the P&amp;L or are they in the restructuring.
No no.
They're flowing through the P&amp;L not treated as restructuring.
Any idea what are the magnitude of those cost were? I prefer not to comment but...
Gerrick I suspect it will be in our 10-Q.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Yurman from 1221 Capital Management.
LLC</strong> I already have my question about the used boats answered and addressed.
So as a long-term holder I completely appreciate the discipline and the prudence at which you're setting us up to compete most effectively in the boat business and the effect that that's having on the dealer channel is going to be positive.
With that as a backdrop with the investments that you've made the investments that you're currently making has our ability to chase that emerging kind of big boat demand has that improved? And this may be something to get into at the meeting in a couple of weeks but I just kind of want to get a sense of -- so we're not chasing this first signs of life here in the category now but have we improved our ability to do so? Thank you for that first -- thanks for the comment thanks for the question.
We are improving our ability.
We're not there yet and that's to all the investment that we're making that we keep talking about.
Our view is that we're going to see a great position in this market the products that we have the footprint that we've developed and the ability to get the product its [ph] market share.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
As usual we first thank everybody for being on the call; secondly for the great questions.
Well we have a lot of really smart analysts who really understand our business and we appreciate the questions.
I'm doing my best to pump up attendance in our November 12 meeting.
The more the merrier because we're pretty proud of what our plan is going to be going forward and we look forward to sharing it with everyone.
So thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation's 2013 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All these documents are available on the website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information section of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's release.
I would also like to remind you that as a result of our decision to exit and then the subsequent sale of Hatteras and CABO on August 5 the results of these businesses and the impact of that sale are reflected in discontinued operation.
The figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start with an overview of our 2013 results.
Our revenue in 2013 increased 5%.
We experienced growth in sales of outboard boats and engines fitness equipment and marine parts and accessories partially offset by revenue declines of sales of fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats sterndrive engines bowling products and retail bowling centers.
Our gross margin increased by 70 basis points compared to the prior year.
This outstanding improvement represents the highest annual gross margin since 2000 and further reflects our ability to execute against our strategy in generating operating efficiencies and leverage.
Operating expenses increased by 5% including a 13% increase in research and development expenses as we continue to invest in our numerous strategic initiatives.
Our operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 17.7% which is comparable to 2012 levels and consistent with our previously stated guidance for 2013.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 12% versus prior year.
And in spite of increased spending on growth operating leverage was 21%.
Continuing down the P&amp;L net interest expense was reduced by $22.8 million we're talking our debt reduction activities which was enabled by our strong free cash flow performance.
Adjusted pretax earnings increased by 27% and diluted EPS as adjusted increased by 31% to $2.73 for the year.
As I mentioned for the full year our sales increased by 5%.
Consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 6%.
Sales to Europe were up 5% and Rest of World sales were up 1% versus the prior year.
Operating earnings excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges were $325.6 million in 2013 an increase of 12% compared to 2012.
In 2013 corporate expenses increased by $10.5 million reflecting a number of factors  including spending on strategic growth initiatives and mark-to-market adjustments on stock appreciation.
Operating margins excluding charges increased 60 basis points to 8.4% due mostly to improvements in gross margins.
Diluted earnings per share for the full year were $8.26 per share including a $6.39 benefit related to a reversal of deferred tax valuation allowance reserves $0.22 of restructuring charges $0.32 of losses from debt retirement and a $0.32 charge from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share would've been $2.73 per share.
This compares to diluted earnings per share as adjusted of $2.09 per share in the prior year.
As adjusted then our 2013 EPS increased by $0.64 or 31%.
Sales in the fourth quarter grew by 9%.
Our Boat and Life Fitness segments reported strong top line improvement of 16% and 15% respectively.
Mercury sales increased by 5% and Bowling &amp; Billiards sales declined by 5%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 13% sales to Europe increased by 4% and Rest of World sales were up 2% versus the prior year period.
Adjusted operating earnings for the quarter were $22.7 million an increase of $5.2 million or 30% compared to 2012.
Operating margins excluding charges increased by 40 basis points to 2.5%.
The increase in operating earnings includes the impact of continued expansion in gross margin partially offset by an 11% increase in operating expenses mostly resulting from investments in strategic initiatives.
Net earnings for the quarter were $6.18 per share including a $6.35 benefit related to a reversal of deferred tax valuation allowance reserves $0.09 of charges for restructuring a $0.01 loss from debt retirement and a $0.22 charge from special tax items.
Excluding these items our diluted earnings per share as adjusted equaled $0.15 per share.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $0.02 per share to prior year.
In summary then our EPS as adjusted increased by $0.13.
Now I'm going to turn the call over to Bill for a closer look at our segment results and the financials.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment.
From a geographic perspective fourth quarter sales to U.S.
markets were up 11% led by growth in outboard engine and parts and accessories.
For the full year U.S.
sales increased by 8%.
Sales to Mercury's European customers decreased 1% with growth in parts and accessories more than offset by a decrease in engines.
For the full year sales to Europe increased by 3%.
Rest of the World sales decreased in all major product categories and were down 5%.
Combined sales growth in these regions was flat for the full year.
From a product category perspective our U.S.
outboard engine business sales increased in the fourth quarter of 2013 reflecting continued strong outboard demand especially for the 150-horsepower FourStroke as well as for the Verado engine family and engines in the 75- 90- and 115-horsepower range.
Outboard sales in Europe and Rest of World markets declined modestly in the quarter.
Sterndrive engine sales continued to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
Mercury's parts and accessories businesses reported solid sales increases in the quarter and full year reflecting new product launches market share gains and stable boating participation.
Growth was led by our U.S.
and European operations.
Record sales were achieved by Attwood and Land 'N' Sea in 2013.
Attwood the award-winning portable and integrated fuel systems continued to be an important contributor to Mercury's P&amp;A business.
Attwood also launched several new exciting motor guide trolling motor products in the fourth quarter including a new wireless trolling motor which can be paired with a pinpoint GPS technology for precise operations.
Land 'N' Sea also continued to grow through product line and distribution expansion.
Mercury's adjusted operating earnings were up slightly compared to last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year operating margins were at 13.6% 110 basis points higher than the prior year on an as-adjusted basis.
This operating earnings performance reflects the benefit of higher sales of outboard engines and parts and accessories combined with an improvement in gross margin.
These benefits were partially offset by spending growth on growth initiatives and a decline in sales of sterndrive engines.
In our Boat segment fourth quarter revenues increased by 16% compared to the prior year's period.
In the U.S.
which represents about 2/3 of this segment sales were up 17%.
This included strong sales growth in aluminum and fiberglass outboard boats as we increase -- fuel our inventories in these categories in response to continued strong demand trends.
We also increased shipments in smaller fiberglass sterndrive inboard boats in connection with new product introductions and these increases were partially offset by reduced shipments of large fiberglass boats.
For the full year U.S.
sales increased by 4%.
In the quarter our sales to Europe increased $3 million or 22% versus the prior year.
For the full year sales to Europe were flat.
Rest of the World sales increased by 14% a result of higher sales of outboard boats in Canada and fiberglass sterndrive inboard boats in South America partially offset by declines in other regions.
For the year Rest of World sales increased by 1%.
Now let's take a look at preliminary U.S.
powerboat industry statistics provided by Statistical Surveys Incorporated to get a view of how retail demand unfolded by boat category in the U.S.
in 2013.
Based on preliminary fourth quarter data aluminum and fiberglass outboard board markets continue to demonstrate excellent growth.
The fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boat category experienced declines in the fourth quarter similar to the third quarter.
The fourth quarter continues to reflect improvement in both between the 31 and 52 feet while smaller fiberglass boats declined by double-digit percentage.
The quarterly trends in these categories are also consistent with year-to-date results.
The U.S.
retail powerboat markets grew by approximately 7% in the fourth quarter and by 5% for 2013.
This growth tracks to a total of about 160 000 units in 2013.
Brunswick's global retail unit sales increased by 2% in 2013 versus the prior year and our global wholesale unit shipments increased by 3%.
Our global retail growth rate reflects market share gains in aluminum and fiberglass outboard boats which were more than offset by share declines in certain fiberglass sterndrive/inboard categories.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the year with 34 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis which compares to 33 weeks on hand a year earlier.
Pipelines for aluminum and fiberglass outboard boats are up as compared to last year while fiberglass sterndrive/inboard pipelines are down versus the prior year and remained at near record low levels.
As we anticipated and discussed in our previous conference call total pipelines increased for the full year reflecting growth in the overall marine market as well as our efforts to maintain inventories at appropriate levels for current market demand trends.
The Boat segment's fourth quarter operating loss improved by $8.4 million when compared to the prior year on an as-adjusted basis.
This improvement resulted from higher sales and cost-reduction actions including plant consolidation activities initiated in 2012 and 2013 partially offset by increased investments which were primarily related to the introduction of new models.
For the full year the Boat segment reduced their operating loss by $1.2 million.
Now let's turn our attention to our 2 recreational segments.
Sales of Life Fitness increased by 15% when compared to last year's fourth quarter.
In the U.S.
strong growth in sales to health club and hospitality customers was partially offset by lower sales to local and federal government customers.
The increase also reflected strong gains in international markets including Europe which was up 18% for the quarter and the full year.
Growth in Europe reflects benefits from distribution enhancements along with improved market conditions.
New products benefited sales in all markets.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter declined by approximately $1 million and for the year the segment reported an operating margin of 15.3% a 90-basis-point reduction from the record achieved by Life Fitness in 2012.
These comparisons reflect higher sales along with investments in R&amp;D and other growth-related investment expenses as well as a lower gross margin.
Sales for Bowling &amp; Billiards decreased by 5% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Gains in equivalent retail center sales were more than offset by a reduction in the retail center count and a decrease in sales of bowling products.
As a reminder our bowling organization completed the divestiture of its European bowling center portfolio earlier in the year.
Excluding the impact of this divestiture the segment sales were up 1% in the fourth quarter and down 2% for the full year.
Adjusted operating earnings in the fourth quarter increased by about $1 million as improved cost efficiencies more than offset the impact of declines in sales and spending growth initiatives.
Now let's take a look at debt outstanding which ended 2013 with $460 million a reduction of $112 million versus year-end 2012.
This ending balance represents our lowest debt level since 1996.
While our debt reduction activities are largely completed we may continue to opportunistically retire debt to a balance below our target of $450 million.
Net interest expense which includes interest expense and interest income was $7.8 million in the quarter a decrease of $6.8 million versus the same period in 2012.
The reduction was a result of lower debt balance enabled by our strong free cash flow performance as well as a favorable interest rate on our 2021 notes issued in the second quarter of 2013.
Net interest expense decreased to $42.4 million in 2013 our lowest annual expense since 2005.
Foreign currency had a minimal impact on sales and a positive impact on operating earnings comparisons for the quarter and full year reflecting a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements and including the impact of hedging activities.
The effective book tax rate on an as-adjusted basis was 9.8% for the full year which is mostly in line with the expectations stated on our third quarter call.
This rate excludes the tax impact of onetime charges such as restructuring charges and debt extinguishment losses as well as nonrecurring special tax adjustments.
Special tax adjustments in 2013 include the valuation allowance released in the fourth quarter and unfavorable valuation allowance adjustments related to the stock compensation activity.
As anticipated the change in treatment for the tax valuation allowance will raise our book tax rate in 2014 versus 2013.
The full year effective book tax rate for 2014 as adjusted is expected to be approximately 34% while our effective cash tax rate is approximated to be at a mid-teen percent level.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations in 2013 was $204.8 million an improvement of $21.2 million versus the prior year.
Changes in our primary working capital accounts resulted in a use of cash and totaled approximately $66 million.
The biggest changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $16 million inventory increased by $22 million and accounts payable decreased by $18 million.
Our cash flow statement includes a new line item excess tax benefits from share-based compensation activity which adversely affected free cash flow in 2013.
The amounts in this line item which totaled $37 million for the year result primarily from the stock options exercised in 2013 and are derived from the difference between the expense recorded for book purposes and the expense reflected in the company's tax return.
GAAP requires that these excess tax benefits be reclassified to refinancing activities and not included in operating cash flow.
Normally these benefits would lower taxes paid and the reclassification would have no impact on free cash flow.
However because of the company's tax position these excess tax benefits did not materially benefit our taxes paid in 2013.
Consequently this activity had a negative impact on our free cash flow in 2013 particularly in the fourth quarter.
We're planning for these excess tax benefits to significantly moderate in 2014.
Total free cash flow from continuing operations totaled $75.9 million versus $90.2 million in the prior year a decrease of $14.3 million.
Capital spending in 2013 increased $33 million versus the prior year to approximately $148 million which included investments in capacity expansion and in new products in all businesses.
Free cash flow in 2013 also included approximately $18 million in proceeds from the sale of property plants and equipment in our Marine segments.
Our business unit continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which enable us to reach our debt reduction targets and will also allow us to fund future investments in growth as well as increased returns to shareholders.
In summary cash and marketable securities totaled $369 million at the end of 2013.
The decline from year-end 2012 includes a net impact of debt reduction activities partially offset by continued strong free cash flow.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2014.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $95 million to $100 million.
We expect our 2014 pension expense to be approximately $15 million which is a decrease of $4 million from 2013.
Net interest expense is expected to be in the range of $30 million to $32 million a decrease of $10 million to $12 million for the year.
We anticipate that our restructuring charges will be nominal in 2014 relating to activities initiated in 2013.
And we expect our diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 95 million to 96 million.
On the cash flow side the company plans to make cash contributions to its qualified defined benefit pension plan of approximately $50 million in 2014.
Let me take a minute to provide you an update on our pension plan obligations where our goal continues to be to fully fund the plans and to reduce or eliminate risk pertaining to these liabilities.
The unfunded obligation on our qualified plans was reduced by almost $200 million during 2013 and our funded position improved to just under 80% at year end.
This is a significant improvement in funding versus year-end 2012 and is a result of a sizable increase in the discount rate strong investment returns and contributions.
Our working capital performance in 2014 will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions.
Our current plan anticipates working capital changes to result in a usage of cash in the range of $40 million to $60 million.
Our plan continues to reflect capital expenditures that approximate 4% of projected sales with a substantial portion directed at growth- and profit-enhancing projects.
Despite higher investment spending levels and a modest usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in the range of $150 million to $175 million.
I will now turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thanks Bill.
Our outlook on financial targets for 2014 are consistent with the 3-year strategic plan outlined in November of 2013 at our New York Investor Day event.
The details of our plan can be found on the slides used during this event which are currently located on our website.
We expect 2014 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding cash flow generation.
And as exciting as those results are in and of themselves 2014 is even more exciting as important -- I'm sorry it's even more exciting and important as a year as we're investing at new and higher levels in our future growth.
Our strong operating results cost control and reduction and cash flow generation and debt reduction have combined to produce strong and steady earnings growth over the past 4 years.
With these actions and results behind us we're now focused on revenue growth.
And [indiscernible] in the financial metrics Bill outlined are increased investments and organic growth as we increase investment spending in R&amp;D marketing sales IT talent and capacity.
We will also invest in new adjacent business opportunities and explore small acquisitions which bolt on to our existing businesses.
In 2014 we're targeting 5% to 7% sales growth.
This improvement in our top line growth rate results from our increasing investment in growth initiatives in all of our businesses and is supported by the continuation of the solid growth demonstrated in 2013.
Our 2014 targets and plans are based on global economic conditions that are generally comparable to 2013 with weakness continuing in certain regions in Europe.
As a result we expect to benefit from the continuation of the modest recovery in the global marine market with solid growth in outboard boat and engine products as well as in the global parts and accessory marketplace.
In the fiberglass boat category which also affects sterndrive engine production we're currently planning for a modestly declining market with stability in large boats.
We believe this will aggregate to total global retail powerboat growth of 3% to 5%.
Our Fitness segment should continue to benefit from favorable health and fitness trends as well as solid growth rates in global health club and hospitality businesses.
And our Bowling business should perform well under stable market conditions.
Against the backdrop of our revenue targets our plan reflects a solid improvement in gross margin levels.
Our organic growth platform will continue to benefit from increased investments in capital projects and research and development programs along with the SG&amp;A to support them.
As a result of these ongoing initiatives full year operating expenses as percentage of sales are expected to be slightly lower than 2013 levels approximately in the range of 17.3% to 17.6%.
For the full year we expect to generate greater levels of positive free cash flow in spite of increasing levels on investment spending.
In addition 2014 net interest expense should be lower than 2013 by approximately $10 million to $12 million due to our successful debt reduction plan which was enabled by our strong free cash flow performance.
As a result our adjusted operating and pretax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong double-digit growth rates.
We expect our diluted earnings per common share excluding restructuring exit and impairment charges debt extinguishment losses and special tax items to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.55 which is a result of a significantly higher book tax rate.
If we acquire a 34% tax rate to 2013 our EPS guidance would reflect a 20% to 28% growth rate.
Before I make a few summary comments concerning our operating unit financial plans for 2014 I should note that in our judgment the abnormally severe weather we've experienced in much of the United States to this point in 2014 could well adversely affect our 2014 first quarter comparisons.
Any impact however should not affect our full year plan.
And now I take a few minutes to look at the financial targets in our 4 operating segments.
Our overall plan is based on continued revenue and operating earnings growth for our Marine Engine segment specifically revenue growth in the mid-single digit range with solid improvement in operating margins.
We will continue to make significant investments at Mercury reflecting projects to further increase outboard manufacturing capacity and support new product introductions including investments in our research and development operations.
A quick reminder regarding the first quarter of 2014 Mercury year-over-year operating earnings leverage will be negatively affected by the $5.5 million favorable gain on the sale of real estate that occurred in the first quarter of 2013.
Turning to our Boat segment.
Our plan is based on continued solid performance in outboard boats and contributions from our Brazil operations.
Small fiberglass boats should also provide growth during the year as we continue to extend our day boat offerings.
In the second half of the year our large boats strategy should begin to generate growth as an increasing number of new products are shipping to the market in the latter half of the marine season.
Year-over-year growth will be driven by modest improvements in global industry demand market shares and new product introductions.
As a result we're targeting revenue growth in the high single-digit range with a solid improvement in operating earnings.
Regarding the first quarter of 2014 we anticipate that our revenue growth in the quarter will be flat.
The first quarter growth rate will be inconsistent with subsequent quarters as we continue to execute our plan to curtail the production and sale of the existing models of large fiberglass boats as we transition to the production of several new models of large fiberglass boats which will begin to reach the market later this year.
We will reach full production of these new models in 2015.
In our Life Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
Here we're targeting revenue growth in the mid-single to high-single digit range.
We will continue to make significant investments at Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation in order to achieve competitive differentiation in our products and services which should facilitate market share growth and create business opportunities beyond their core business model.
And although Life Fitness's margins could decline slightly in 2014 as a result of these investments our plan continues to reflect very healthy margins in this business.
Finally in our Bowling &amp; Billiards segment our plan reflects revenue growth and an improvement in operating margins.
Specifically we're targeting revenue growth in low-single digits with a solid improvement in operating margins.
I'd like to remind you that revenue comparisons for the first 3 quarters of 2014 in this business will be unfavorably affected by the divestitures of the European bowling centers.
So in conclusion we're planning for 2014 to be the fifth consecutive year of strong improvements in operating and pretax earnings with excellent free cash flow.
And we plan to accomplish these results while investing to enable product and innovation leadership in every segment and as the foundation for top line growth.
With that I thank you.
And I'll now turn the call back to the operator so that we can take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mike Schwartz with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on gross margin.
I know you put in the press release and you talked about solid improvement.
But I guess digging into that a little bit and maybe getting a little more granularity how should we think of I guess the major drivers maybe any negatives to that outlook? And then -- I mean should we thinking -- should we be thinking about a same kind of rate of growth in '14 as we saw in '13? Yes.
Mike I would say that that's exactly what you should be thinking.
I mean I think the numbers that we laid out in New York were kind of operating leverage in the mid-20s.
And if you start to plug in the SG&amp;A spending levels that we've guided to you get pretty close to where '13 was.
In terms of improvement.
In terms of improvement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just some of the major factors behind the improvement in gross margin going forward.
I mean will there be anything kind of new or different than the major drivers in '13? No.
I would say it's more of the same themes.
We continue to get great leverage at the gross margin line leveraging fixed cost and we continue to get some benefits from new products.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can ask another question just in terms of some of the new boat products coming to market and I guess how we think about the cadence or timing of when they reach market.
I mean what was -- I guess as we look at this fourth quarter revenue up 16% I mean what types of products are really driving that and what should we expect kind of as we move through '14? Well those -- the drivers there first were interestingly -- let's put it in 3 buckets.
Smaller new product introductions is we really focused more on this day boat market and focused on stopping the share loss that we've been experiencing there.
Secondly we are anticipating our outboard boat brands and businesses will continue to show improvement in 2014 and we need to get the pipeline position to support that improvement.
And then there was continued benefit from the uptick in our -- well not really the uptick but maybe in our Brazil operations really beginning to come online and run well.
As we think about 2014 let's think of it in 2 big buckets.
First we will continue to focus on this day boat market and we'll be bringing new products to market there.
Secondly we'll see growth in all of our outboard segments.
And then thirdly in the larger fiberglass product.
And fundamentally what we've done we talked about this before is we -- and you really see it here in the first quarter we've stopped making the older models of this new product.
And I'm talking product 50 feet and above.
And we're now transitioning our production facilities to the new product and it takes a while to get the facilities up and running get the product built and begin to get it into the marketplace.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we'll see that begin to happen in the second half of the year.
And we'll reach full production rates because we'll have all the new product in the market et cetera at the end of 2014 going into 2015.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of the day boat product that's new.
I mean would the 350 SLX by Sea Ray fit in that smaller day boat segment you're talking about? Not really because we've actually not -- we only begun to get those to the marketplace Mike.
As you know we're sold out trying to figure out how to double triple production and staying sold out.
But very few of those have come to the marketplace yet.
And you'll start to see those come here in mid first quarter but we'll really get a nice pickup in rate in the second quarter and beyond for that particular boat.
Our next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
I guess my questions are more along the lines of the industry color that you gave.
I think you said that aluminum and outboard up smaller fiberglass down bigger fiberglass stable is kind of how you're terming things.
I guess it's the last point that -- Dusty you and I go back and forth on all the time but talk a little bit about that in the context of the most recent industry data that seems to be pretty positive at least in terms of the U.S.
It actually seems like the cruisers and the yachts are outperforming the broader market or at least it did during 2013.
And then maybe it is a little bit unfair as the second boat company to report in the last 2 hours but MarineMax seems really excited about big boats in general and your big boats in particular.
So I guess all that is to say that it seems like it's doing a little bit better than stable but maybe -- obviously you guys have a lot more visibility than we do.
Well first what -- we can probably wrestle around with the word stable.
Stable from my perspective can mean up some and that's our view of the market.
If we -- and if we subdivide it yes there's clearly in boats above 40 feet at least in the fourth quarter perhaps in the third quarter some building momentum but they are also very small numbers James.
We obviously believe that's a segment that has a real opportunity for us and that's where we're bringing and I think we've been very open about it 6 new models to the marketplace and we'll begin to have all of them in the marketplace about '15.
So we're pretty comfortable about that segment.
In terms of the smaller boats I think if you add up everything in the day boat category and forget the small just fiberglass boats there's nice improvement in the day boat category but it's happening across a broad lines of product.
So we're -- and as we do our planning we have to make some market assumptions and this is where we put stake in the ground.
Now if the markets are better of course our results get better and we love it.
But as we do our planning we have to start somewhere.
Because again the biggest thing we can do wrong as an industry and actually I heard some criticism on swap box this morning by some people talking about the car industry is overpopulate the pipeline.
Let's be very discipline in managing the pipeline.
The market's better.
Great let's move on it.
And if it's not we're all still going to make money and be healthy is the way we think about it.
That makes a lot of sense.
I guess along those lines though to the extent that -- certainly the bigger boats outperform your expectations.
It sounds like you may not necessarily be able to keep up with that increased demand just given some of the transition from a production perspective.
How much upside could you capture if you're pleasantly surprised this year? We would certainly catch some more in '15 than we would in '14.
But I'd like not to go into any more details James because that starts to talk about what our ability to flex and production of these large boats.
But there is some ability to flex.
Okay.
And then just last question here and maybe this is just repackaging what you've already told us.
But the dealer inventories within the channel last couple of years you had increased those inventors in the fourth quarter to prepare for the spring selling season.
I think I heard you said you did that again with aluminum and outboard but that the smaller fiberglass was up and the bigger fiberglass was down.
Just remind us what you said there.
And I guess just fundamentally as I think about the first quarter and I guess the year wholesale versus retail are there some rules of thumb we should be keeping in mind there sort of seasonally? Yes.
First you very actively summarized James but I probably was not very articulate in saying it's how we managed pipeline in the fourth quarter: up in the outboard boats; also up in small sterndrive fiberglass boats because we have some new models; and managing down the larger boats getting ready for the new product.
As we look at the big picture across 2014 we're going to begin to come more in equality with wholesale and retail as we finish up 2014.
Okay.
And nothing to call out in the first quarter with respect to the difference between the 2? Yes.
The only thing I've tried to call out in the first quarter is we're going to sell a fair bit fewer in terms of dollar and units the large boats than the previous quarter.
So we've got this odd dynamic going on in the first quarter continued up nicely in outboard product.
Remember they are sales in dollars.
We're not talking about units.
But as we get ready for these new models we're going to sell substantially fewer dollar value of the large boats and that's why we think the quarter in dollars will be flat compared to same quarter last year.
Our next question comes from the line of Rommel Dionisio with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> In the past I think you've -- in the past I think you guys have talked about your sterndrive engine business and about how you might not rely on GM blocks necessarily in the future and come up with some of your own engine blocks.
Could you just give us an update on how that -- how the technology pursuit is going and if you're still sort of on track to be rolling that out soon and perhaps what the impact might be on margins longer term as that business sort of takes over? First on track great engines.
I said a couple of calls ago a couple of technology features and all my friends up at Mercury called and screamed at me for getting ahead of the marketplace.
But the engines we're really happy with it and on track to bring them to market this year most likely in the second half of the year.
In terms of margin improvement there was slight margin improvement on a per engine basis and a real margin pickup that would occur is -- if the sterndrive market begin to improve.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First is just with respect to weather impacting the first quarter.
Did you -- you saw that in December and the fourth quarter as well.
So would you say how much of it -- of an impact would you say that had on retail sales? Well I'm focusing a bit more on wholesale sales Greg.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you look at our Boat business and even to some extent our engine business pretty slow production quarter.
And therefore as we see bad weather hitting us it wasn't much of an impact.
I'm not predicting but if this mess continues I think it'll affect our bowling retail business.
Atlanta I think is still shutdown there for the third day and we have some high-volume centers down there as an example.
I could go on and on and on about that stuff.
In many regions where both we and our suppliers manufacture we've had employees just having a tough time getting to work or the weather is so cold the schools are out it disrupts everybody's schedule.
So those are just the sort of things we're living with right now.
And if there's any impact we'll figure it out and make it up as the year goes on.
But I just wanted to caution everyone there is a possibility or perhaps even a potential that we'll see some impact in the first quarter comparisons.
Research Division</strong> Right.
It feels like in -- Europe seems to be picking up a little bit for some of the other major companies.
And just wondering why you have a pretty conservative outlook on Europe.
Because fundamentally we don't see anything changing in the overall economic situation in Europe.
And we think of Europe as pretty broad category -- I mean a pretty broad geographic area.
And our judgment was as we planned what we should be doing there we just plan conservatively and be prepared for any upside that might occur.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley and Company.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up to the commentary on Europe.
Can you maybe just give us an overview of what you're expecting from the nonmarine markets outside of North America both in terms of new boats sales but also what you're seeing on the P&amp;A front from Mercury? To make sure I understand the question Jimmy talk about nonmarine and then P&amp;A is that what you're looking for? Research Division</strong> Excuse me marine markets outside of North America.
Okay.
Let's do it this way.
We think Europe is still going to be a tough place to be.
We'll again see in our view however P&amp;A growth in Europe because people are still boating there.
They're just not buying new boats.
When you begin to chunk that up in Europe country by country region by region it is wildly this is the best way I can say it different.
Italy Spain even maybe beginning to see a little bit in France are tough places to be.
Germany Belgium Netherlands are good place to be and improving in Scandinavia.
But of course Italy France is -- was by far the largest boating country.
So that's how we see all that shaping up.
But we think P&amp;A will continue to grow generally a little slower than perhaps the rates in the United States.
I mean a lot of our P&amp;A growth here in United States and we called it out in Bill's part of the prepared comments has been really great work at Attwood and Land 'N' Sea and we don't quite have those equivalent businesses today in Europe.
Therefore it's hard to get that sort of benefit from those businesses.
As we go to Asia still when we do Rest of the World -- let's think of Asia Pacific and Australia generally flattish.
We're in a -- of course in the boating season over in Australia a little better.
But again it's not big enough to give us a big pickup outside United States.
Brazil's going to be interesting in 2014.
We made a big investment down there.
The operation's up and running on the boat side.
We've always had a good engine business there.
A lot now is going to depend among what happens economically down there.
And they've got a couple of things that are going to be in our view a bit of distractions the first of which is the new election or an election for a new leader there.
That as you know has had people in the streets and whatever.
So we're going to have to watch how that plays out.
And the World Cup well it's probably have been a great thing for the economy as a country and the infrastructure building could be a bit of a distraction as we work our way through '14.
So we think there's going to be improvement in Brazil but we're a bit cautious about how much even though we continue to believe it's a place we want to be.
And longer term it's going to be a real good place to do business.
Research Division</strong> All that color is very helpful.
And then I just have a very high-level question for you Dusty.
As you think about allocating investment dollars on the marine side it seems as if the real dilemma right now from a product planning standpoint where you have this baby boomer demographic that's seeing a real increase in wealth from rising asset values and that core boating demographic has the financial wherewithal for -- to pay for some of these higher value add higher priced offerings but at the same time you have the younger demographic a lower net worth demographic that seems to be kind of continually getting price out of the fiberglass new boat market here.
So can you talk a little bit about what you can do at the manufacturer level to kind of address that dichotomy either on the boat or the engine side? Sure.
And it's a great question Jimmy.
And the first thing we -- let me jump in to it with -- backing up to a little earlier in '13.
We asked ourselves is the boating industry in some sort of overall secular decline or is it going to bump along here where it is.
And we decided we really needed to understand consumers all around the world.
And we conducted what we believe is the largest consumer survey done in the industry in Europe Canada Brazil and United States being a large boating markets where we could find consumers and get good information.
And we survey -- we were very careful to stay statistically correct as we surveyed across age and income gaps or units.
We found 2 things both of which really made us happy.
The first was there is absolutely no question that people understand that boating is a wonderful recreation activity and there still remains a high desire to participate in boating as an activity.
The second thing we found then was that however that is not translating into increased sales of new boats because the cost versus the benefit of new boats is still not in line with what consumers expect.
That really ranked through to us because when we look at used boat sales in United States you know how the new boat market declined say round numbers half the used boat market never declined in the double digits in any particular year.
And now the last good statistics we have were 2012 and I suspect 2013 will continue to be in the same case.
Used boat transaction that is used boats that changed hands were higher in 2012 than they were in the prerecession years.
So it tells us people are really focused -- continue to be focused on boating want to boat and in fact want a different boat.
We just haven't been able to entice them to new.
Therefore we've got to do several things and we've got to be laser focused on it and get really good at it.
First every new model that we introduced must cost less than the model it replaced.
We've been working on this hard.
We've been talking about it for a couple of years.
We're beginning to have real success.
Our product development folks in our boating business working with our engine people are really starting to get into the correct cadence there and I'm confident we're going to get there.
Secondly we've got to provide innovation styling and features in new product that will cause people to say "I need new rather than used." And that is actually a little harder one as one might imagine than in reducing cost.
Again it -- feeling like across our businesses and frankly from other people in the industry we're really beginning to hit stride around that.
So as an example who would've ever thought a 35-foot day boat that is a bow rider would be in -- with 2 engines and an Axius control system would be a hit? But buried in our research we found that people who've been buying cruisers for the future tend to think they're going to spend less time at night on the boat and therefore day boating is becoming popular.
As we see the great rise in pontoon boats in my judgment a lot of that is driven by people seeing the real value in pontoon and there's been great innovation in pontoon.
Who would have ever thought you'd have pontoons running around with 200- 300-horsepower engines on them with a joystick docking system.
So I can go on and on.
But what's happening here is we're getting our feet on this and understanding the consumer.
We know what we have to go do.
And now it's going to be very much disciplined sleeves rolled up stay at it don't move.
Is that helpful? Anyway it's a broad answer Jimmy to the question.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'll start on the credit side.
I recognized you're not directly involved in any lending.
But I'm wondering whether you're seeing any changes to credit availability across the various tiers that you serve.
Craig this is Bill.
The intelligence I get from my guys who are involved in this is that it is improving modestly.
We're still better than we were at kind of the depths of the recession but we're still not back to where we were prerecession.
But we are starting to see a little bit greater availability and accessibility for consumers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly in dealer count.
Are you satisfied with where you're at with respect to your dealer footprint or do you see any opportunities to maybe grow that base as the market recovers? We have been growing our dealer base fairly steadily the last couple of years.
And it's generally Craig brand or segment specific as we feel want to represent it in certain markets have the ability to get product there et cetera.
We've been fairly steadily increasing the dealer count and we'll continue to do so.
Our final question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
In Fitness can you just talk about Fitness a little bit? You had nice top line improvement but a deterioration in profitability.
And it looks like you expect those trends to continue.
So just talk a little bit about those trends in Fitness a little bit more detail.
Thanks Gerrick.
Two things we are investing heavily in this business.
And on a percentage basis we're investing more heavily in this business than we are on any other business.
We talked in the past about the revival of some of the competitors and our desire to continue to beat them with a great product better service et cetera and that requires investment.
Secondly we began to signal in the first quarter of 2012 with our big analyst presentation down in Miami that has some of the competitors in the fitness industry began to get their footing under them from a business perspective we anticipated that in order to move volume to their plants et cetera there would be pricing pressures.
And what we saw in the fourth quarter is that coming to fruition.
As we look for the year there will be a little pressure on Fitness margins.
But I think we're pretty well in line for the -- for 2014 as we were in 2013 and the margins are going to be continue to be outstanding there.
And the only other point I'd make is that fourth quarter last year margins were up substantially in the period.
So we got -- so we're facing top tough comps in Q4.
Those relationships are much more balanced when you look at the full year.
Okay okay.
And then to close out I heard you mention the word acquisition.
If you guys were to do something albeit small what kind of things would you be looking to buy? I'll say this we believe the opportunities revolve primarily around our P&amp;A business.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
If you could just -- Bill on the pension discount rate can you give us an update what that went from and to? Yes I sure can.
I think it increased -- let me get my piece of paper here my cheat sheet.
We went up about 85 basis points so from 4% to 4.85% is what we're using at year end.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then Dusty can you maybe give us a little more color about -- I think maybe some plans as far as your duties and position may have been extended over the last several months? Just a little more color there.
And then a thing that you all alluded to -- and I'm saying it was a bad thing either Dusty so don't take that wrong.
But a thing you alluded to at the analyst presentation and any additional color you may want to give or the opportunity magnitude with some licensing potential around your aluminum technology at Mercury so any additional color there.
Sure.
Well in duties and position I still have the same duties.
And some have asked me how long I was going to continue to work and I've said "When I was 50 I never dreamed I'd be working at this age." And I've agreed to work a fair bit longer with the board.
So you guys try and put up with me while.
In terms of licensing here's -- first to answer the question directly and give a bit of color on it we are continuing in testing with customers of the alloys and intellectual property protected metalworking that we bring to the market.
We're encouraged by the requirements by CAFE standards to reduce weight.
And of course what we thought of and worked in for a very very long time is aluminum as a metal.
And secondly we're watching with great interest Ford with their new F150 as they introduced a product with much more aluminum in it to reduce weight smaller engine take cost out increase or decrease fuel usage.
We think all of that bodes well for stern [ph] and we're paving the way on this I guess is the best way I can put it.
And these things had start out with a great technologist talking to great technologist from a cross-business perspective and then it eventually has stand up at an executive decision-making level.
And I'd say we're somewhere in between the 2 right now on our track to get this business mature.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess one clarification there.
How much of that potential if any is baked into the guidance that you outlined in -- to your New York meeting? Peanut.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry? Peanut.
Small amount.
Very small amount.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Dusty McCoy.
Please proceed sir.
Well thank you very much.
First I want to thank everybody for getting on the call with us.
Today was a very busy day and I know many folks here on the call cover people who had release earlier than us and had calls.
So we appreciate your interest very very much.
I'll just close by saying we're pleased as punch with 2013.
We're really excited about 2014.
As we look at our guidance and take care of the tax rate and shares outstanding and all that we're staying right on course with what many of you in the market have been judging we were going to do.
But the thing we wanted to convey heavily in this call and it sounds like we were half successful is we -- this is a year in which we're really ramping up and upping the rate -- I mean investments we're making on our business just for growth.
And this is incurring in every business.
And in every single business segment we have we got lots lots coming to the market at various times in '14 and as we look ahead in '15.
So in my career here I'm more excited about our potential going forward than in any time.
And as a management team we're enjoying all this because we had to do a lot around cost cutting reducing debt et cetera.
Now we're going to get to do what we're paid to do which is understand what the market needs make investments so that we can meet the market and then go the top line in earnings.
So we look forward to '14.
We look forward to seeing many of you as we move around to the rest of the year.
Thanks so much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation's 2014 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on these factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation today we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's release.
I would also like to remind you that figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start with an overview of our first quarter results.
As we pre-announced on April 8 revenue in the quarter decreased 3%.
We experienced growth in fitness equipment and outboard boats which was more than offset by declines in outboard and sterndrive engines fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats and in our bowling and billiards businesses.
It's our view that harsh weather conditions throughout the quarter had an adverse effect on our Marine and Bowling segments.
Bill will provide more color on these trends in his remarks.
Our gross margin increased by 110 basis points compared to the prior year.
This as [ph] any improvement was largely driven by our Fitness and Boat segments.
We do not however anticipate this trend in consolidated gross margin to continue in the second quarter.
We will explain why later in the call.
Operating expenses increased by 2% including an 8% increase in R&amp;D expenses as we continue to invest in numerous strategic initiatives.
If we exclude the $5.5 million gain on sale of real estate in 2013 operating expenses were down by 1% compared to 2013.
Adjusted operating earnings decreased by 1% versus the prior year.
Continuing down the P&amp;L net interest expense was reduced by $5.7 million reflecting our prior year debt reduction activities which were enabled by our strong free cash flow performance.
Adjusted pre-tax earnings increased by 6% and diluted EPS as adjusted decreased by $0.16 to $0.60.
If we apply our 2014 tax rate and shares outstanding to our 2013 results EPS as adjusted would be up slightly.
Our Life Fitness segment reported strong top line improvement of 6% in the quarter while our combined Marine and Bowling &amp; Billiards segments declined by 4%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales decreased by 2%.
Sales to Europe increased by 1% which includes a slight favorable impact from foreign currency.
Rest of World sales declined by 6% versus the prior-year period with foreign currency accounting for more than 1/2 of the decline.
Adjusted operating earnings were $94.7 million for the quarter a decrease of $800 000 compared to 2013.
Operating margins excluding charges increased by 20 basis points to 9.8%.
The increase in operating margin includes the impact of an expansion in gross margin partially offset by the increase in operating expenses.
We are forecasting that operating expenses will increase in the second quarter as we fund various strategic initiatives with a meaningful proportion related to second half product launches.
I'll discuss a few of our new product introductions in my concluding remarks today.
Given our relatively flat adjusted operating earnings performance combined with lower net interest expense adjusted pre-tax earnings increased by approximately $5 million or 6%.
Net earnings for the quarter equaled $0.60 per share on both a GAAP and an adjusted basis.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $0.76 per share in the prior year.
As a reminder our current EPS reflects the significant increase in our effective booked tax rate.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill for a closer look at our segment results and financials.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment where sales were down by 3% in the quarter.
From a geographic perspective sales to the U.S.
markets were down 5% reflecting a slight increase in parts and accessories which was more than offset by lower engine revenues.
Sales to Mercury's European customers decreased 1% as growth in parts and accessories and diesel sterndrive/inboard engines was more than offset by a decrease in outboard engines.
Rest of the World sales decreased 6% reflecting an increase in diesel sterndrive/inboard engines which was more than offset by lower outboard engines and parts and accessories.
Currency also had an unfavorable impact on Rest of the World sales during the quarter.
On a product category basis our outboard engine business reported sales declines in most major markets in the first quarter of 2014.
I should point out that system-wide outboard inventory levels entering 2014 along with backlogs were much better aligned with anticipated market demand than in 2013 which also contributed to the year-over-year wholesale demand dollar declines.
Our outlook for outboard engine business continues to reflect favorable retail demand in most markets and both categories.
Sterndrive engine sales continue to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
We are realizing some modest diesel engine growth particularly in international markets as we pursue our objective of expanding our presence in this market.
We believe harsh weather conditions in many North American markets were a major contributor to the decrease in engine sales.
Sales for part -- Mercury's parts and accessories businesses were flat compared to the prior year with growth in both Europe and the U.S.
offset by declines in Rest of the World.
Revenue benefited from new product launches and market share gains.
The product launches included new motor guide trolling motor products and Land 'N' Sea introduced -- or continued to grow market share through service delivery improvements rapid product availability broader product offerings and some additional new products.
Weather was also a negative factor for these businesses in many North American markets causing early seasonal activity to be below normal patterns.
Mercury's operating earnings declined compared to last year's first quarter and operating margins were 12.2% 150 basis points lower than the prior quarter -- prior year quarter.
Lower operating earnings resulted from the absence of a $5.5 million gain on the sale of real estate that occurred in Q1 2013 the decline in sales and increased spending on growth initiatives.
In our Boat segment first quarter revenues decreased by 2%.
In the U.S.
which comprises about 2/3 of this segment sales declined by 4%.
This included continued sales growth in our outboard boats.
However these gains were more than offset by reductions in fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats.
In the quarter our European sales increased by approximately $9 million or 38% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from improvements in our European outboard brands as well as gains in our U.S.
fiberglass brands.
Rest of the World sales increased by 11% -- or decreased by 11% which reflected lower sales in all major markets and the unfavorable impact of currency.
Once again we believe harsh weather conditions in many North American markets were a major contributor to the decrease in segment sales.
Before we discuss U.S.
powerboat industry statistics let's briefly review some weather trends that were influencing retail sales activity in the first quarter.
As these charts clearly depict colder-than-normal conditions affected the eastern 2/3 of the U.S.
in 2014 and were more widespread than 2013 which was also a difficult year.
Looking at data for the top 20 boating states provide some additional insights into the impact of the weather.
First states that experienced average temperatures of more than 5 degrees colder than normal reported on average double-digit declines of retail and second states having more favorable conditions for the most part reported results that were more consistent with our full year expectations.
For example Florida and Texas reported first quarter increases of 9% and 4% respectively.
I would also like to point out that a number of upper Midwestern states included in this summary have not fully reported their first quarter sales including Minnesota Wisconsin and Illinois.
Weather conditions have continued to be adverse in certain key boating states and may consequently affect April retail comparisons as well.
At this early point in the marine season we believe that retail sales could be deferred to later months.
As you can see from the preliminary SSI data retail demand for the first quarters of both 2013 and 2014 was weak and not consistent with prior quarterly trends.
Fiberglass outboard boat markets continued to demonstrate solid growth while the aluminum category the most vulnerable to cold and ice was down modestly.
The fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boat category also declined in the quarter.
This decline most likely reflects the weather's impact but also continued to be challenged by ongoing economic headwinds and consumer shifts to other boat types factors that we have been discussing with you over the past few years.
The NMMA will soon be releasing their final 2013 U.S.
retail powerboat market data.
Our estimate reflects that the U.S.
market grew by approximately 3.5% in 2013 in total 158 100 units.
Brunswick's global retail unit sales were flat in the first quarter versus prior year.
Our global wholesale unit shipments decreased by 4%.
This compares to Boat group sales decline of 2% as the segment benefited from a higher average selling price.
Regarding our pipelines the U.S.
ended the quarter with 40 weeks of boats on hand on a trailing 12-month retail basis which is comparable to the prior year level.
Pipelines for aluminum and fiberglass outboard boat products are up compared to the last year while fiberglass sterndrive/inboard pipelines are down versus the prior year.
Our current pipeline levels are consistent with our annual growth expectations in various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with these overall levels.
The Boat segment's first quarter adjusted operating earnings improved by $1.1 million when compared to the prior year.
This improvement resulted from a higher gross margin which included benefits from cost reduction actions including plant consolidation activities initiated in 2012 and 2013 and improved net operating efficiencies.
Partially offsetting these factors were lower sales and increased investment spending primarily related to the introduction of new models.
Now let's turn our attention to our 2 recreational segments.
Sales at Life Fitness increased by 6% resulting from strong growth in the U.S.
to health clubs local and federal governments and hospitality customers.
Partially offsetting the U.S.
growth was slightly lower international sales including an unfavorable impact of currency in Rest of the World markets.
We anticipate new products to benefit sales in all markets over the next several quarters.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter increased by approximately $5 million.
This strong earnings performance reflected higher sales and improved gross margin which included favorable warranty expense comparisons partially offset by the absence of a favorable prior year insurance settlement.
Continued increases in investment in growth initiatives also negatively affected year-over-year comparisons.
Sales for our Bowling &amp; Billiards business decreased by 8%.
Revenues declined in each major business category with weather being a negative factor in many regions for our retail bowling centers.
As a reminder our bowling organization completed the divestiture of its European bowling center portfolio in the second half of 2013.
Excluding the impact of this divestiture the segment sales were down 3%.
Operating earnings in the quarter decreased by about $2 million reflecting declines in sales and operating inefficiencies including higher utility expenses.
Foreign currency had a slight net unfavorable impact on total consolidated sales.
However Rest of the World sales were unfavorably affected to a greater degree in our Marine Engine Fitness and Boat segments.
Foreign currency had a minimum net favorable impact on operating earnings comparisons for the quarter reflecting a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements including the impact of hedging activity.
For the full year 2014 versus 2013 comparisons we currently estimate that exchange rates will have a slight net unfavorable impact on sales and operating earnings.
This assumes that rates remain consistent with current levels for the remainder of the year.
Now I would like to provide some brief comments on our tax provision.
Our effective booked tax rate on an as-adjusted basis was 34.3%.
This rate excludes the tax impact of any non-recurring special tax adjustments.
Our anticipated full year effective booked tax rate for 2014 as adjusted continues to be approximately 34%.
We are however lowering our estimate -- estimated effective cash tax rate to a low double-digit percent level due to a revised assumption on our domestic tax liabilities.
I also would like to note that our effective booked tax rate for 2014 exclude any potential benefit from an extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash used for operating activities was $108.2 million an increase of $14.4 million versus the prior year.
Normal seasonal changes in balances combined with the impact of lower-than-expected demand for our Marine products resulted in a use of cash in our primary working capital accounts and totaled approximately $210 million.
The biggest changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $111 million; inventory increased by $81 million; accrued expenses decreased by $84 million; and accounts payable increased by $68 million.
Given the seasonality of sales in our Marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital over the balance of the year.
Total free cash flow amounted to a negative $130 million versus approximately $109 million in the prior year a difference of $21 million.
Capital spending in the quarter was approximately $22 million which included investments in new products in all businesses along with capacity expansion projects.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments in growth.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $227 million at the end of the quarter.
The decline from year end 2013 reflects the seasonal free cash flow usage of $130 million as well as our quarterly dividend payment of $9 million.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2014.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $95 million to $100 million.
We expect our 2014 pension expense to be approximately $15 million which is a decrease of $4 million from 2013.
Net interest expense is expected to be in the range of $30 million to $32 million a decrease of $10 million to $12 million for the year.
We anticipate that our restructuring charges will be nominal in 2014 relating to activities initiated in 2013.
And we expect our diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 95 million to 96 million.
As you can see all of these items are unchanged from our previous outlook statements.
On the cash flow side the company's plans to make cash contributions to its qualified defined benefit plans is approximately $50 million in 2014.
Our working capital performance in 2014 will primarily be a function of our revenue assumptions.
Our current plan anticipates working capital changes to result in a usage of cash in the range of $40 million to $60 million.
Our plan continues to reflect capital expenditures that approximate 4% of projected sales with a substantial portion directed at growth and profit-enhancing projects.
Despite higher investment spending levels and a modest usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in the range of $165 million to $190 million.
This represents an increase from our previous guidance due to a lower estimate of tax payments.
I will now turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Bill thanks for the good summary.
As we stated in our earnings release weather conditions in certain Marine markets have masked the underlying consumer demand for our boat and engine products.
However at this early point in the marine season our operating plans for the full year remain fairly consistent with the planning assumptions we communicated at the outset of the year.
We continue to target 2014 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects 5% to 6% sales growth which is supported by our increasing investment in growth initiatives and by the continuation of the solid growth demonstrated in 2013.
We continue to anticipate a solid improvement in gross margin levels.
Our organic growth platform will continue to benefit from increased investments in capital projects in research and development programs along with the SG&amp;A to support them.
As a result of these ongoing initiatives full year operating expenses will increase and as a percentage of sales are expected to be slightly lower than 2013 levels approximately in the range of 17.3% to 17.6%.
As a result our adjusted operating and pretax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong double-digit growth rates.
Further we expect our adjusted diluted earnings per common share to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.55 which would translate to a 20% to 28% growth rate assuming a 34% tax rate applied to 2013 earnings.
Regarding our outlook for the second quarter assuming weather conditions in May and June are more normal we're anticipating solid top line growth in our marine segments as well as in our Fitness segment.
The Bowling &amp; Billiards' performance is expected to be comparable to 2013.
However we do anticipate some near-term pressures on our gross and operating margins.
Specifically we expect our second quarter gross margin to be slightly lower than we reported in the prior year.
In addition Q2 planned operating expenses reflect low teens percent growth as we fund various strategic initiatives during the quarter particularly in connection with new product launches.
The second quarter operating expense growth represents a significant portion of our planned annual increase in operating expenses.
We will continue to benefit from lower interest expenses and therefore we estimate a slight increase in our adjusted pre-tax earnings.
As we look at our 2014 first half our operating earnings will be down slightly compared to 2013's first half.
Thus our view of the 2014 year reflects strong second-half growth in sales driven by an extensive array of new products along with year-over-year improvements in gross margin and more normal operating expense trends.
The slide we have up now gives you an example of some of the new products in our Marine businesses that we've introduced or we'll be launching in the upcoming quarters.
At recent boat shows Sea Ray introduced at top left a new product in the larger boat categories the 650 Fly which debuted in Miami.
This is the first of Sea Ray's new L-class family of yachts.
The L-class family marries style and substance as only Sea Ray can and will change the way boaters look at luxury.
As we continue clockwise on this chart Sea Ray also introduced its new 510 Flybridge which has expanded Sea Ray's entry -- reentry rather into large motor yachts.
At the bottom right is the popular new 350 SLX Bowrider which was also in Miami.
Demand is substantially higher than what we originally expected for 2014.
And Mercury's outboard product line will continue to be comprehensively upgraded with new more cost-efficient architectures and product refresh programs.
New products entering the marketplace from Life Fitness include beginning at the top left on this chart the company's first in its history step climber.
Another addition to the Elevation Series and also available in the Life Fitness Integrity Series the PowerMill climber uses proven Life Fitness technology to create a powerhouse perfect for high-intensity low-impact training.
Continuing clockwise on the chart available in the summer of 2014 Insignia Series weight system will replace the successful Life Fitness Signature Series' selectorized line with a new look improved feel and enhanced features.
At the bottom right Hammer Strength Select features a 22-piece line of selectorized equipment with new technology integrations enabling exercisers to tailor the equipment experience to suit their needs.
And finally on the bottom left SYNRGY BlueSky is an extension of the groundbreaking Synrgy360 and is Life Fitness' first small training system designed specifically for outdoor use.
The full year financial targets in our 4 operating segments remain largely unchanged.
Our overall plan is based on full year revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine segment.
Specifically we're planning for full year revenue growth in the mid-single-digit range with a solid improvement in operating margins.
We will continue to make significant investments in Mercury including projects to further increase outboard manufacturing capacity and support new product introductions.
Regarding the second quarter of 2014 we are currently expecting a lower operating margin compared to the second quarter of 2013 due to the absence of favorable insurance settlements and warranty adjustments in the second quarter of 2013 as well as investment spending increases.
If we look at our Boat segment our plan is based on 4 key areas of execution: First our large fiberglass boat strategy should begin to generate growth in the second half of the year as an increasing number of new products are shipped into the market.
Second we'll have continued solid performance in outboard boats.
Third contributions from our Brazil operations will continue.
And fourthly small fiberglass boats should also provide growth during the year as we continue to expand our day boat offerings.
Year-over-year growth anticipates modest improvement in global industry demand market share gains and new product introductions.
As a result we're targeting revenue growth in the high single-digit range with a solid improvement in operating earnings.
As we look at the second quarter of 2014 we will continue to execute our plan to curtail the production and sale of certain existing models of large fiberglass boats as we transition to the production of several additional new models of large fiberglass boats which will begin to reach the market later this year.
We'll reach full productions of these new models in 2015.
Further we anticipate lower operating margins and earnings compared to Q2 of 2013 due to increases in operating expenses including heavier investment spending and the absence of favorable warranty expense in the second quarter of 2013 offsetting benefits from increasing sales.
In our Life Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
Our 2014 and 3-year plans are targeting revenue growth in mid-single to high single-digit range.
We will continue to make significant investments on Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation in order to achieve competitive differentiation in our products and services which should continue to enable market share growth and create business opportunities beyond our core business model.
And although Life Fitness' margins could decline slightly in 2014 as a result of these investments our plan continues to reflect very healthy margins in this business.
As we look at the second quarter we expect a lower operating margin compared to the second quarter of 2013 as benefits from sales growth are more than offset by investment spending increases related to new products and business opportunities.
Finally in our Bowling &amp; Billiards segment our 3-year plan reflects revenue growth and an improvement in operating margin.
However as a result of the unfavorable weather conditions and the resulting lost Q1 sales we're now targeting 2014 revenue for this segment to be flat with the prior year.
However we still believe we can achieve a solid second-half improvement in both operating earnings and margin.
I'd like to remind everyone that revenue comparisons for the first 3 quarters of 2014 will be unfavorably affected due to the divestiture of the European bowling centers last year.
So to conclude we're planning for 2014 to be the fifth consecutive year of strong improvements in operating and pre-tax earnings and excellent free cash flow.
And we're planning [ph] to accomplish these results while increasing investment to enable product and innovation leadership in every segment and as the foundation for our top line growth.
Thanks and now I'll turn the call back to the operator so we can take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
So Dusty the top line guidance I hesitate to even call it a reduction 5 to 6 versus what was 5 to 7 before.
Sort of looking at the line by line guidance.
Correct me if I'm wrong it seems like Bowling &amp; Billiards is the only area where you're actually reducing the revenue guide.
And I guess first question does that account for the entirety of that 50 basis points versus -- worth of reduction at the midpoint? And I guess just walk us through the last couple of weeks.
It seems like when you guys gave your pre-announcement a few weeks ago you wanted to leave the window open with respect to the top line guidance.
March data wasn't great and yet it seems like you still feel pretty good about the guidance in boats and in engines.
Can you sort of walk us through that thought process? Sure.
Absolutely.
Bowling is -- the decline in bowling is a big part but if we do the mathematics it doesn't account for all of it.
And frankly it's just we as a management team being fairly conservative.
We all know what the first quarter retail results were and frankly April is turning out to be a good month.
But there's still tough weather in a few places and it's not going to be as big a month as we had originally planned.
But we're comfortable that as we get past this month we're going to continue all the growth targets and hit them all that we'd set.
But we're just tried to be realistic since we were guiding in ranges be a bit more realistic about what we thought we could do so we wouldn't be disappointing anybody in revenue growth.
We're not -- we're neither excited nor disappointed or anything by the 5% to 6% versus I think the 5% to 7% we'd been giving.
It doesn't change our view of how we're going to perform through the year and you saw we raised our free cash flow guidance.
So we're comfortable with the way it's all playing out.
We just want to be a bit more realistic in taking into account what had gone on in the first quarter and where April looks.
Excellent.
And then maybe talk a little bit about I don't know for lack of a better word the backlog here.
MarineMax and obviously it's a little unfair for me to use some of their commentaries since they reported an hour ago but it sounds like there were a lot of "sales" that just weren't delivered whether it be the ability for them to spec the trade in or just people not wanting to take delivery given how bad the weather is.
So maybe talk a little bit about that.
What are you hearing from your dealers I guess beyond MarineMax.
And then maybe in specific some of the new products.
The 350 SLX and then the 510 and 650 Fly what's the initial demand for those products or at least the updated demand that you're hearing? And is there any doubt that you'll be able to sell as many as you can make this year? First generally what we're hearing from dealers is more than I've heard in my time here at Brunswick is that they got a lot of products sitting around that's been sold but they haven't been able to deliver.
And that's especially true in the Upper Midwest where there's still ice on all the water.
And that's a pretty big boating market.
So yes generally what we've heard more than we normally hear is that we've got boats sold we just can't deliver.
And obviously that makes us feel comfortable about underlying demand.
Specifically looking at the 350 the 510 the 650 we -- I think we've said fairly openly to everyone we're sold out through calendar year 2014 nobody's backing off and our operating folks have got their sleeves rolled up and are really working hard because these are new models which require integration.
The 510 the 650 are very big.
A lot of work to get it done.
So they've got a hill ahead of them to get all these boats delivered.
So really the issue is more from my perspective not demand but the ability of our hardworking folks to get the boats out.
And I'm pretty relaxed that they're going to be able to do it because they're really good.
Our next question comes from Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First what are you seeing in terms of your competition in terms of whether it's new products or promotions? How have they been responding in this type of market? First on new product I think there's a pretty steady flow of new product coming into the marketplace.
My judgment is that throughout our Marine business and our Fitness business our product introduction is going to exceed the competition in 2014 and in 2015.
As you know we have a good look at the pipeline and all the work that we're doing.
So I'm -- everybody's doing a good job believe me the competition is always great in all these segments.
But as we keep saying we're really ramping up spending.
Second quarter is one of those little fall-through quarters you have in business where we're really confident about all that we're doing.
We just need to push ourselves on through getting it done so we can get all the benefit from it that we're going to see beginning third fourth quarter and then early into '15.
In terms of discounting the market is really rational from where we sit.
In particular our discounts are not above what they've been the last couple of years.
And I think that's because we've got good smart competitors in all the segments and everybody is just staying calm and doing what they need to do to keep product moving.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as you talk to your dealer customers what's their outlook generally about let's say for the upcoming year and for recovery in some of those -- some of the fiberglass sterndrive segment? Well first in general the dealers are buoyant.
The belief is we're going to have a good year consistent with what we've been thinking in the overall year was going to look like.
Perhaps an exception to that is the let's say under 40 feet sterndrive/inboard business.
As we look at SSI continued to be a tough world for that part of the business in the first quarter.
And we -- I think when we told everyone what our view was as we began the year we did not view that segment as growing throughout the year and we continue to have that view.
And I think our dealers share that view a bit.
Yes Greg one thing I ought to say is we're -- and let's say Brunswick brands and I think a lot of other brands are really now beginning to attack the style of Boat in that size range with outboard power rather than sterndrive/inboard power to some extent and that's working well.
And consumers are beginning to move to outboard.
And of course we're absolutely fine with that from top line and a margin perspective.
Our next question comes from Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
I have 2 questions 1 boat 1 engine.
Your Rest of World boat sales were down excluding currency were units down and why would that have been? I'm looking to Bill whether rest of unit sales were down.
We were up in Europe and we had real growth in Europe and I'm not sure right now.
Bill is looking for me.
They were down.
They were down.
And here's my judgment as to what's been happening there.
First in Australia which is a pretty big market for us it's continued to be a flattish to down market.
And while we continue to maintain share and do well there that whole market is not letting us move the needle.
As we go to South America that is a place where they're coming out of the summer season going into the fall season.
And I think the performance here the economy down there is pretty well-known to everyone.
So again we were down slightly there in certain size ranges and up nicely in the boats we're making there.
So when we added all that up Gerrick we were down.
Great.
And on engines in Miami you'd mentioned that you had increased the number of boat brands where Mercury outboards were an option.
I guess the step #2 in that process is getting the dealers or consumers to request those boats come with Mercury's versus Yamaha et cetera.
So how does that part of the equation going? I realize it might be early but just wondering what you're seeing so far.
It's too early first to give you a good view.
But that Gerrick that would be a great end of second quarter question.
Okay I'll save it for then.
Okay thank you Gerrick.
Our next question comes from Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dusty just in general on your -- the sterndrive outlook here.
Is it fair to say that -- has your outlook weakened a little bit over the last 90 days for that segment or is it fairly well intact with where we were at the beginning of the calendar year? I'd say it's weakened a bit.
We said flat I would -- now I think we would say flat to down slightly will be the industry performance Tim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is that by definition the sterndrive market? Maybe we're slicing hairs here or not.
Or are you talking -- would that be made up by what you mentioned a little bit earlier about -- you're swapping from the sterndrives into the outboard? So is -- on a net basis there is that weakened a little bit or is that unchanged then when you factor that in? Yes that would be strictly the sterndrive market.
And on a net basis we're more near flat.
And what we're seeing is I think increased acceleration of outboard base product.
And that's driven by the fact that ourselves and many other in the industry are now introducing product that's outboard power.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then Bill good news and as Dusty has said also on the free cash guidance taken up.
I guess the next question off of that then is what do you plan to do with it? Any changes or new opportunities? What are you going to do as free cash continues to come in a little bit better than expected? Well here's the way we're thinking about it.
We're going to be increasing the dividend and we'll begin to do that in a structured way.
And our goal is to be in line with let's say the midpoint of S&amp;P 500 on a yield basis would be around 2%.
Secondly we are increasing our focus on investment in our existing businesses.
And we'd talk a lot Tim about all the capital investment we are making et cetera.
We're also -- well we've hinted at this before we have our sleeves rolled up looking for tuck-in or bolt-on acquisitions to support first our marine P&amp;A business which is a very powerful strong business nice margins.
We think obviously there are some more opportunity there.
And our guys are out working really hard there.
And we are beginning to think fairly significant cash investments in our Fitness business to supplement the Fitness portion of our business with other activity.
So we've got good plans to continue investing in the business.
And over the next 18 to 24 months we're going to continue to really fill out those plans and make them more visible to our shareholders.
And I think the only thing I would add on the dividend Tim is that we plan to try to get to that over time.
It certainly wouldn't be in a big significant step.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley and Company.
Research Division</strong> I'll start with one on the Boat group.
I understand the sources of Q2 margin pressure but even let's say in a bear case that industry retail does not meaningfully accelerate from here even though it certainly seems like it should would you say even in that bear case you already have the order book or order backlog to drive your expected second half uptick in that segment? And am I thinking about it right that your expectations imply positive operating earnings for the Boat group in both Q3 and Q4? The answer is yes to both questions Jimmy.
Research Division</strong> Okay simple enough.
There's nothing else that I can add to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving on to the wholesale engine business.
I understand the weather impact at retail.
But can you maybe just explain what gives you confidence that weather was the cause or a primary contributor to the Q1 decline in wholesale engine demand? I ask this in part because as you probably know one of Mercury's customers reported yesterday that their Q1 production was down 5% and that that was not in response to weather and it may need to respond to weather-related retail weakness with production cuts going forward.
Here's where we're at with Mercury.
We have -- we played really hard catch-up in 2012 and 2013 with demand Jimmy.
And so as we started up the sterndrive plant when we moved it from Oklahoma to Wisconsin we had the normal little startup hiccups and we got behind on demand there.
When we introduced the 150 outboard engine we were wonderfully surprised by demand for that engine.
And we really got behind there and had to play catch-up.
The 75/90/115 category of engine for a lot of reasons out in the market but one of the bigger ones was the enormous growth in pontoons and a lot of our pontoon customers wanted those horsepower ranges.
We got behind there.
So what we've been doing is really beavering away to -- the best way I can describe it is we needed the sponge to be a bit saturated not completely dry so that it was sucking up everything we were making.
So what we got now is out in the marketplace the right saturation of engines.
And now what we're doing is wholesale is going to be more in line with retail going forward.
So as we look at what happened in the first quarter we had a lot of boat builders who -- and other customers who had generally have been thinking perhaps going into '14 that they needed to keep ordering heavily [ph] because they didn't want to get behind.
And then as they get into '14 there's this growing understanding "We can now meet demand and we're not going to have big backlogs." So now the marketplace is more relaxed saying "We don't need to keep ordering ahead.
You guys will be able to meet what demand we want." And that's what we're going to be doing going forward.
Our next question comes from Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> The question is on the product cycle.
You're at the beginning of a pretty compelling product cycle in many boat categories.
Let's take Sea Ray for example.
How you've got 350 coming out the 650 out.
I'm curious how that product cycle evolves.
Is it a 5-year cycle or lifespan for that particular product line? And when would the peak in volume be in a typical product cycle? Well first let me help understand -- give you a statistic I think that will really help understand the product cycle at Sea Ray.
Say 12 months ago the average model age of a Sea Ray model was a little over 4 years.
We want in 2015 an average age of our models to be 2.5 years.
And then our goal going forward will be to keep our model lineup new models versus old to be about that age.
Now as to a specific model when does that leave the marketplace? There's never a completely pat answer because you can have a model that just is so good in the marketplace there's nothing you can do to make it better and demand stays very high.
And I can think of in the late '90s and early 2000s a couple of cruiser models we just sat there and churned them out because customers really wanted them.
Other times especially in the past we'd strike out.
We'd put a model out there and it wouldn't do well and we would shorten the life fairly significantly.
One of the things we are very focused on now and I can remember when I came here to our business we would put a bunch of product out and we were happy I used to say if we batted 300.
Well our goal now is to bat 1 000.
And I think our product development folks are really in the groove right now and every product is hitting.
So then if that -- if every product keeps hitting and then you start looking at we want the average age of the models to be 2.5 years obviously it depends upon model mix.
But then you're in a mode where models last 6 years and then you keep rolling them over.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
It's a fairly big change.
And we've said we wanted to cut in half our product cycle time for a new product.
We're not quite there but I will tell you our boat folks are performing heroically in completely reinventing the product cycle in order to get there.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And as a follow-up you've been pursuing what I'd call an affordability strategy where you've been launching some lower-priced more affordable boats.
Obviously that's the theory.
It seems like a good one.
How is it playing out so far this season as you launch some of those less expensive boats? It -- first a great question.
It's really fun to start watching this.
So let me give you just a couple of examples.
The 350 SLX which we keep talking about I was going to say bragging about.
And it makes me sound like that and we're trying not to be.
We've now had to triple the production of that boat.
And it's a 35-foot boat.
And the transaction price is generally in round numbers a little over $100 000 less than a 35-foot cruiser.
So what we're seeing is bringing a product with exactly the right features into a size segment that's significantly -- that transactions are significantly less in the same sized boat with different features is a real home run.
In our Lund business our guys in Lund is -- we never talk about it much it is a powerful business nice margins growing market share.
And our product guys there went to work and what they fundamentally did is they got it so that a 19-foot boat cost what an 18-foot used to cost and 18 cost what a 17 used to cost and a 17 cost what a 16 used to cost.
So then what we're seeing is quite interestingly people moving up in size.
So the folks who used to want a 17 are now buying an 18.
So it works but it doesn't quite work the way one would have thought which is okay people will buy the 17 because we've gotten so much cost out of it rather they're saying "Well shoot I can have a bigger and better boat." And as we look at the 350 it's a different boat but they're saying "Look at this size range it's much less and that's what I'm going to take.
I don't want a smaller boat." So it's working quite well.
A bit different than I would have predicted.
But one always knows the marketplace rewards great product at an attractive cost position with innovation and features and that's what we've got to stay after.
Our next question comes from Mike Swartz with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on the Fitness business and in particular the margins in that business this quarter.
I know that you -- the -- I think they're up like 200 plus basis points and just kind of dovetailing that with your commentary around that 14% to 16% outlook that you played out for really the next 3 years.
I mean how to think about that as we move to the -- I mean are we understanding that a lot of that benefit we saw in the first quarter was either onetime or will be offset with strategic investments? Or do you expect some kind of promotion to come down the pipe? I mean just how to look at it broadly.
Think of it in the second quarter of this year is offset by strategic investments.
Our Fitness guys are in any way we look at them knocking the ball out of the park great gross margins but we're making big big investment in that business in the second quarter.
And that will level out as we get through the year.
But I just mentioned in the prepared remarks Mike a few of the new products they have out.
There's actually more.
And we've really got to get it ramped up to get all that into the field.
Mike a big part of the lift in Q1 was very much attributed to the warranty favorable warranty comparisons between year.
And that's very much a Q1 phenomenon that doesn't continue throughout the rest of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just in terms of the outboard business and maybe hopping on top of Jimmy's question.
I mean understanding there's a lot of new product and the new platform coming out I believe later this year or this fall.
I mean is there any risk that dealers or other boat manufacturers play a hold off strategy where they wait for a new product to come out? Or is that something you're not anticipating? We're not anticipating that.
What we do is we build ahead for existing products so that nobody's short during the time we're doing an introduction.
And when one's running the pipeline correctly and if demand is lining up with the way the pipeline's set up the product needs to be sold in order for the dealers and boat builders to continue to service their customers.
Our next question comes from Rommel Dionisio with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Dusty in the past you guys have talked about -- you're so dominant in the Mercury business in freshwater but building your business in saltwater.
I wonder if you could just give us an update here in the early season.
I realize it's still early in the season but just to see the progress you're making in terms of potentially building that market share in the saltwater business for Mercury as well? Gerrick had asked that earlier.
And I was saying you ask us again in the second quarter and we can give you a better view.
But my view is that we are having success and the extent of that success I think will be really measured as we get to the middle of the season.
So Rommel I think we'll be able to give you a lot better view in the second quarter.
But I think our guys have done a great job with great engines and beginning to work with a bunch of really good saltwater outboard boat customers to get on the price list which was important.
Our next question comes from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can give us a sense for the pricing differential today in the used versus the new boat.
And if that's -- and I guess the trend in that you expect to see.
I would say Carla it hasn't changed from what we talked about toward the end of last year which is we're back now to a normal differentiation.
It's difficult to give a percentage differentiation because it so much depends upon the size of the boat the year of the used boat et cetera but I would say we were back to normal.
We've done a lot of statistical work and toward the end of last year we had begun to see what could be a narrowing trend of the difference between new and used.
We haven't rerun that work right now because first quarter is just not a good quarter with the low volumes for us to take a look at that.
But we'll be all over that as we go through the second quarter.
And my anticipation is that it will get -- that we will continue to see a narrowing.
It's not going to be a big fast narrowing but it will be that steady and measurable pace because the number of late-model low-hour used boats available out in the marketplace is going -- I mean it's just arithmetic it's going to continue to decline.
And as that happens we'll see that price range narrow.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the international front.
How many or what percentage of your international boat sales are you making in those local markets at this point? Well I think we have that on one of the charts.
If you look at -- let me give you the exact chart.
I'll dig it up here real quick.
Is the question how many -- what's the percentage of boats that we sell internationally are being made internationally? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Oh I'm sorry I'm sorry.
Oh I blew that.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Well let's say 5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's still more opportunity there.
How high can that get do you think? Maybe it's a little higher because we make a lot of boats in Poland and Portugal that satisfy the local market under the Quicksilver and Uttern brands.
Probably 1/3 to 40% would be my guess Carla.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is there an opportunity to take that up and improve efficiencies or margins or is that probably where it could stay where it should stay? Well I think what you'll see is that the number of boats we make outside the U.S.
will continue to grow because we have growth planned in those particular brands.
And you'll see us continue to grow in Brazil.
And that's assuming the U.S.
market and those markets recover at about the same rates.
And one of the big factors is freight.
Where it's expensive to ship something and cheaper to make it locally we make it locally.
Where freight doesn't have that big of an impact like on a bigger boat we tend to make it here and export.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then you just -- you had mentioned the acquisitions M&amp;As specifically on the parts and side for Marine.
It sounded like also on Fitness.
Are there any large properties out there in the Fitness that are available or are you also just looking for more small tuck-in there? It would be small tuck-in.
At this time we would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Thanks everyone for being with us today.
As we thought about this call and talking about the first quarter we sort of wore out the word weather.
And I think it's important.
And then I'll tell you we're thinking about in the company okay we're through talking about weather.
We are into spring we're going to go to work.
We've invested a lot of money in some great new product that's going to do really well in the marketplace.
So we're over it.
And we're now just ready to move forward with all the work that we've done and take advantage of it.
And the weather is going to be what it will be and we'll just have to work around it.
So that's the way we're thinking about the remainder of the year.
That's why we're comfortable that we can keep our guidance top bottom line EPS range.
And now it's just up to us to go back to work and make it happen.
So thanks everyone for the interest and all the great questions.
And I'm sure we'll be seeing you as we do various conferences and road shows et cetera.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dustan McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filing and today's press release.
All these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would like to remind you that these figures in the presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
On July 17 the company announced the signing of an agreement to sell its retail Bowling business and its intention to sell its Bowling Products business.
Beginning with the third quarter of 2014 Brunswick will report the results of this Bowling Retail and Products business which was previously reported in the Bowling and Billiards segment as discontinued operations.
The historical and future results of the Billiards business will be reflected in the company's fitness segment.
The company's second quarter and year-to-date financial statements include the Bowling business results as continuing operations.
The 2014 second half and full-year outlook statement reflect the bowling businesses as discontinued operations.
I would like to turn the call over to Dustan.
Thank you Bruce and good morning everyone.
I'll start with an overview of our second quarter results.
Revenue in the quarter increased 4%.
We experienced growth in outboard boats and engines parts and accessories fitness equipment and bowling products which was partially offset by revenue declines in fiberglass sterndrive boats and engines as well as retail boating -- bowling I'm sorry.
Bill will provide more color on the segments' performance in his remarks.
Our gross margin increased by 30 basis points compared to the prior year.
Operating expenses increased by 7% as we continue to invest in numerous strategic initiatives.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 3% versus the prior year.
Net interest expense was reduced by $4.1 million reflecting our prior-year debt reduction activities which were enabled by our strong free cash flow performance.
Adjusted pretax earnings increased by 8% while diluted EPS as adjusted decreased by $0.28 to $0.95 reflecting a higher 2014 effective tax rate.
Our Fitness segment reported strong top line growth of 6% in the quarter.
This is the sixth consecutive quarter of solid revenue growth for this business.
Sales on our combined marine segments increased by 4%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 5%.
Sales to Europe also increased by 5% with a favorable impact from foreign currency accounting for a portion of that growth.
Rest of world sales declined by 2% versus the prior year period.
Due to weakness in marine markets and changes in foreign currency offset by gains in Fitness.
In summary sales outside the U.S.
increased by 1%.
In the first half the Fitness segment reported strong top line improvement of 6% while sales on our combined marine segments were flat due to as you will recall the difficult first quarter for the engine and bowl businesses.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 2%.
Sales to Europe increased by 4%.
The favorable impact from foreign currency accounted for more than half of the increase.
Rest of the world sales declined by 4% versus the prior year due to weaknesses in marine markets and changes in foreign currency offset by gains in fitness.
In summary sales outside the U.S.
declined by 1% for the first half.
Adjusted operating earnings were $144.4 million for the quarter an increase of $3.7 million compared to 2013.
Operating margins excluding charges decreased by 10 basis points to 12.7%.
The decrease in our operating margin includes the impact of the expansion in gross margin offset by the increase in operating expenses of 7% which was driven by increased investment spending.
We're forecasting operating expenses in the third quarter will increase at a comparable rate as we continue to fund various strategic initiatives.
A portion of the operating expenses we originally planned for the second quarter has shifted into the third quarter.
For the first 6 months adjusted operating earnings were $239.1 million an increase of $2.9 million compared to 2013.
Our operating margin excluding charges 11 -- of the 11.3% is comparable to the prior year.
As a result of the modest improvement in our adjusted operating earnings performance combined with lower net interest expense and higher other income adjusted pretax earnings in the second quarter increased by approximately $10 billion [ph] or 8%.
For the 6 months adjusted pretax earnings increased by approximately $15 million or 7%.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted for the quarter equaled $0.95 per share.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $1.23 per share in the prior year.
As a reminder our reported EPS for 2014 reflects a significant year-over-year increase in our effective tax rate.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted for the first half equaled $1.56 per share.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $1.99 per share in the prior year.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I want to provide some perspectives on the Global Marine market.
The U.S.
market is unfolding consistent with our annual expectations and continues to benefit from solid growth in outboard boat and engine products as well as in parts and accessories.
Year-to-date the U.S.
powerboat industry is up approximately 3%.
On a rolling 12-month basis the market has improved by more than 6%.
In the fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat category which also affects sterndrive inboard engine production modest year-to-date unit growth in boats greater than 30 feet is being more than offset by declines in boats under 30 feet.
International markets however have experienced declines in retail sales specifically in Canada and South America.
In Canada an unusually cold and wet spring led to a late start to the boating season.
The currency variability is causing some consumers to delay or defer purchases.
In South America weaker-than-expected economic conditions is a primary factor causing lower market demand in Brazil Argentina and Venezuela.
Consequently our first half Global Marine retail growth is below our annual expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill for a closer look at our segment results and financials.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment where sales were up 3% in the quarter.
From a geographic perspective sales to the U.S.
were up 3% reflecting increases in outboard engines and parts and accessories which were partially offset by the impact of lower sterndrive inboard engine revenues.
Sales to Mercury's European customers increased 5% as growth in parts and accessories was partially offset by lower outboard and sterndrive inboard engine revenues.
Rest of the World sales increased slightly as gains in outboard engines has exceeded reductions in parts and accessories and in sterndrive inboard engine revenues.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported solid overall sales growth in the second quarter of 2014.
Our outlook for the outboard engine business continues to reflect favorable retail demand in most markets in both categories.
Sterndrive engine sales continue to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
Diesel engine sales were down modestly in the quarter but are still up year-to-date.
Mercury's parts and accessories businesses delivered solid growth sales growth during the quarter with gains in both the U.S.
and Europe partially offset by declines in Rest of the World.
Revenue benefited from new product launches and market share gains.
We again reported record sales in the second quarter at Land 'N' Sea and Attwood.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 3% compared to last year's second quarter.
Operating margins were at 18.8% 10 basis points lower than the prior year quarter.
Improvement in operating earnings included a benefit from higher sales as well as the impact of the absence of favorable insurance settlements in the second quarter of 2013 and investments in growth initiatives.
In our Boat segment second quarter revenues increased by 4%.
In the U.S.
which comprises about 2/3 of this segment sales increased 7%.
This included continued growth in sales of outboard boats along with modest reductions in fiberglass sterndrive inboard boats.
In the quarter European sales increased by approximately $8 million or 27% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of new larger higher-priced products by our European outboard boat brands.
Rest of the World sales decreased by 9% which reflected a weaker demand in Canada and South America referred to by Dusty earlier in the call.
Brunswick's global retail and wholesale unit shipments both decreased by 2% in the quarter.
This compares to the Boat group dollar sales increase of 4%.
As a segment segment benefited from a favorable sifting mix across most of its outboard boat lines resulting in a higher average selling price.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter with 34 weeks of boats on hand measured on a trailing 12-month retail basis which is 2 weeks higher than the prior year level.
Pipeline for aluminum and fiberglass outboard products are up compared to last year particularly in Canada while fiberglass sterndrive inboard pipelines are down versus the prior year.
Our plan assumes that the wholesale unit growth rate for the full year will be consistent with our retail unit growth rate.
Our current pipeline levels are appropriate given our annual growth expectations in various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with these overall levels.
The boat segment second quarter adjusted operating earnings improved by $3.2 million or 19% when compared to the prior year.
This improvement resulted from higher sales as well as gross margin which included benefits from cost-reduction actions and improved net operating efficiencies.
Now let's turn our attention to the company's 2 recreational segments.
Sales of Life Fitness increased by 6% resulting from strong growth in the U.S.
to health clubs combined with modest net sales growth in international markets.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter decreased by approximately $2 million as the impact from higher sales was more than offset by a slightly lower gross margin and continued investments and increases in investments in growth initiatives.
Sales for our Bowling &amp; Billiards segment increased by 2%.
This reflects gains in bowling products as well as in equivalent retail center sales including increases at pilot centers.
This growth was partially offset by a reduced retail center count particularly in Europe along with a decrease in billiard sales.
Operating earnings as adjusted increased slightly in the quarter.
Foreign currency had a slight net unfavorable impact of total consolidated sales with rest of the world sales affected to the greatest degree.
Foreign currency had a minimal impact on operating earnings comparisons for the quarter reflecting a mix of favorable and unfavorable exchange rate movements including the impact of hedging activity.
For the full year 2014 versus 2013 comparisons we currently estimate that exchange rates will have a slight net unfavorable impact on sales and a minimal impact on operating earnings.
This assumes that rates remain consistent with current levels for the remainder of the year.
Now I would like to provide some brief comments on our tax provision.
Our effective booked tax rate on a GAAP and as adjusted basis was 34%.
Our plan does not contemplate a change to the as-adjusted rate for the remainder of the year.
Our estimated effective cash tax rate continues to reflect a low double-digit percent level.
I'd also like to note that our effective booked tax rates for 2014 exclude any potential benefit from an extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credits.
Turning to our review over year-to-date cash flow statement.
Cash provided by operating activities was $77 million a decrease of $30 million versus the prior year.
Seasonal changes in our primary working capital accounts total approximately $172 million.
The biggest changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $98 million inventory increased by $62 million accrued expenses decreased by $50 million and accounts payable increased by $40 million.
To date working capital movements have been unfavorable versus the prior year due to timing of receivable collections and changes in inventory movements due mostly to new product introductions.
For the remainder of the year we anticipate that working capital changes will be favorable versus 2013.
And end [ph] the full year with a net usage of $40 million to $60 million.
Total free cash flow amounted to $27 million versus approximately $54 million in the prior year a difference of about $27 million.
Capital spending in the quarter was approximately $53 million which included investments in new products in our Marine and Fitness businesses as well as capacity expansion products -- projects.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments and growth.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $335 million at the end of the quarter decline from year-end 2013 mainly reflects the Whale acquisition made in the second quarter and cash used for dividend payments partially offset by free cash flow.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2014.
As a reminder all of our outlook statements have been adjusted to reflect the bowling businesses which will be reported as discontinued operations starting in the third quarter.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $80 million to $85 million.
We expect our 2014 pension expense to be approximately $15 million which is a decrease of $4 million from 2013.
Net interest expense is expected to be in the range of $28 million to $30 million.
We anticipate our restructuring charges will be between $4 million and $5 million in 2014.
And we expect our diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 95 million to 96 million.
On the cash flow side the company plans to make cash contributions to its qualified defined benefit pension plans of approximately $75 million to $80 million in 2014.
This increase from prior guidance includes an estimated amount which will be used to fund planned lump sum payouts to term vested participants.
Our structuring charge estimate does not reflect any pension-related settlement charges associated with this payout plan.
Our plan reflects capital expenditures of approximately $140 million with a substantial portion directed to growth and profit-enhancing projects including meeting capacity expansion requirements at Life Fitness.
Despite higher investment spending levels and a modest usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in the range of $100 million to $135 million.
This represents a decrease from our previous guidance due to adjusting for the bowling business cash flow and the incremental pension funding.
I will now turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thanks Bill.
Our operating plans and assumptions for the full year remain fairly consistent with those we communicated on our first quarter call after we adjust for the bowling divestitures.
We continue to target 2014 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects 5% to 6% sales growth which is supported by our increased investment in new products and by the continuation of the growth demonstrated in the U.S.
in the second quarter of 2014 and growth in certain international markets.
We continue to anticipate a solid improvement in gross margin levels.
As a result of ongoing growth investments full year operating expenses adjusted for the divestitures will increase but as a percentage of sales are expected to be lower than 2013 levels approximately in the range of 17.6% to 17.7%.
As a result our pretax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong growth of 24% to 30%.
On our last earnings call we established our 2014 EPS as adjusted guidance of $2.40 to $2.55.
With the announced divestitures of our bowling business and the corresponding discontinued operations accounting our guidance was affected -- effectively reduced by $0.20 to $2.20 to $2.35.
Today we'll change our guidance to a range of $2.25 to $2.35.
Regarding our outlook for the second half we're anticipating strong top line growth in our Marine segments as well as our in Fitness segment.
On a consolidated basis we're planning for approximately 10% to 12% sales growth in the second half.
Some of the key drivers of the second half growth include new products being introduced at Mercury which I will elaborate more on the next slide.
The Boat group has several new products mainly introduced or better reaching full production rates including Sea Ray 650 470 510 and 350 SLX.
Bayliner's new development Excel will also contribute to second half growth.
And Life Fitness will also have a strong lineup of new product hitting the marketplace in the third and fourth quarters including its Insignia strength PowerMill SYNRGY BlueSky and FlexStrider equipment.
Additionally we expect the improvement in gross margin this second half to be slightly higher than the first half.
And our planned second half operating expenses as a percent of sales will be lower than prior year with the third quarter year-over-year growth rate comparable to the second quarter's rate.
As a result our plan continues to reflect strong improvement in adjusted pretax earnings.
Over the past several quarters we've highlighted some of the new products that we have been introducing to the marketplace.
For this call I'd like to focus a minute on some of Mercury's new product offerings.
Mercury Marine which is celebrating its 75th anniversary and was named Wisconsin's Manufacturer of the Year earlier this year has once again launched a strong lineup of new innovative products.
Mercury recently launched its new 75/90/115 horsepower FourStroke engines.
These new engines followed the excess of the 115-horsepower which was introduced over 18 months ago.
Reviews of these engines have been positive.
Also the white Verado has been a huge hit with OEMs and consumers.
The continued success of the rod-only [ph] engines combined with a new FourStroke platform well as the progress reignite with the docking technology has contributed to the growth currently being achieved in freshwater saltwater and repower segments.
As we look at the saltwater market we believe these products' successes will enable Mercury to gain share in this sector over the next 3 years from high teens percentage to a target in the mid-20s.
Mercury's new high horsepower purpose built V6 250 horsepower sterndrive engine is also scheduled to start production in the second half of this year.
The full year financial targets in our 3 operating segments remain largely unchanged.
Our overall plan reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine segment.
Specifically we are planning for our full year revenue growth in the mid-single digit range with a solid improvement in operating margins.
We will continue to make significant investments at Mercury such as the one I've just discussed.
As we look at our Boat segment our plan continues to assume a successful execution of our large fiberglass boat strategy which will help to accelerate growth in the second half of the year as an increasing number of new products are shipped into the market.
As a result we'll start to see the benefit from a more favorable sales mix and higher average sale prices.
Continued solid performance in outboard boats and contributions from our Brazil operations shall also benefit the segment's growth in the back half.
Year-over-year growth anticipates new product introductions improved market share gains and global industry growth.
As a result we're targeting 2014 annual revenue growth in a high-single digit range with a solid improvement in operating earnings.
Further we anticipate significant year-over-year operating earnings improvement in the second half.
This segment however is expected to have a modest seasonal operating loss in both the third and fourth quarter.
In our Life Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
Our 2014 and 3-year plans are both targeting revenue growth in mid-single to high-single digit range.
We'll continue to make significant investments at Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation in order to achieve competitive differentiation in its products and services which should continue to enable market share growth and create business opportunities beyond the core business model.
And although Life Fitness' margins could decline slightly in 2014 as a result of these investments our plan continues to reflect very healthy margins in this business.
As we look at the third quarter we expect the lower operating margin compared to the third quarter of 2013 as benefits from sales growth are more than offset by investment spending increases related to new products and business opportunities.
And with that that concludes the prepared portion of our remarks.
And at this time operator we'll be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
Maybe to start let me try to bridge the gap between sort of the minus 2% retail for boats worldwide in the quarter and the -- I think it was plus 4% reported wholesale.
I guess first question it sounds like international is a real problem child here do you have the numbers that you could share in terms of what domestic versus international look like at retail? And then I think in your prepared comments you made the point that the bigger piece of that delta is pricing as opposed to inventory fill.
Can you just sort of confirm that? And I guess how do we think about that delta as we move forward in the back half of the year? Well what has been the problem in the first half is fundamentally Canada and South America.
We've gone nicely in the U.S.
we did nicely in Europe.
And the big issue there the big help there in our Boat business has been some great new models which tend to be larger and have a higher average selling price.
Canada is -- retail has been down fairly dramatically.
Again it was driven by a very bad weather and what we tend to notice in Canada if there's any variation in exchange rate it sort of freezes the market a bit and then things begin to get back to normal but we're getting late in the year.
And I anticipate that Canada may have a hard time getting back to what we had hoped it would.
In South America it appears to be all driven by economics in that region.
And frankly did we know that? And when we do businesses with South America that's a part of doing business down there and you just got to be flexible roll with the economy and I think our guys are all doing a great job there.
And I would point out that we're up fairly significantly in Fitness business down there.
And I just need to give a shout out to our business team there.
As we look to the second half we will have improvement in units and even higher improvement in dollars.
And again this is driven generally across our fiberglass businesses with bigger models with higher average selling prices which will then pull up the average selling price for all of the boats and helps [ph] revenue.
We're -- the biggest issue we have frankly around our boat business as we look at the second half in my judgment is not demand it's our ability to get over new products into the field.
We have significant ramp-up to do in all of our plans of that produce fiberglass products and that includes Sea Ray it includes Bayliner and it includes Boston Whaler.
So this has now gone from in my judgment a market-facing issue to an internal operational production issue and we got a lot of confidence in our operating teams in these businesses and that's why we feel so strongly about the big second half growth.
Is that -- it's a bit rambling.
Does that get you there? Well it helps quite a bit.
I guess to the last point the ability to get all the new products into the field I think MarineMax again you guys are in the enviable position to follow-up your biggest customer.
But they talk about maybe some of the Sea Ray products getting out a little bit slowly.
Was that just maybe a lack of communication? Or versus how you were thinking about things of some of these new products take a little bit longer to get out there? Probably both and probably more of the former than the latter.
And we're going to be careful getting this new product into the marketplace especially with the big Sea Ray product which I think sounds like it was referenced on the MarineMax call.
I think you listened to it James.
We waited a while to get the great big new product in Sea Ray into the marketplace.
We knew that we were going to be losing share in these bigger boats as we went to a very careful planning process development process.
Now that we've got the product we need to make sure when we build it and get it into the field that it's really good product of high-quality with no issues so that it's a part of the really strong as we look in future years of this brand that this is one of the big foundations for future growth for the brand.
So if we ever error it will be on slower making sure it's right rather than pushing out trying to get revenue.
Great.
And then just last clarification question here.
I think you said in the prepared remarks that your tax rate did not include the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
How should we think about what the tax expense is going to be if that does get reinstated? I think POLARIS for example a couple of days ago basically assuming we don't get anything until the fourth quarter and then it's retroactive then and it's meaningfully helpful to their numbers as a result.
Any way to quantify what it means to your business if that does get reinstated? It's a point or maybe a little bit higher than the point but right in that point range James.
So effective tax rate would go down by a point.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the promotional environment on the boat side how's that been progressing since the beginning of the year with maybe boats sales not being as robust as maybe we would or basically in line just kind of in line with your expectations but it's not extremely robust.
So how have they been responding? Our discounting has been right in line with our forecast and budget.
I would say that as we've been helping our dealers get ready for all the new product we have been helping them get some product off the showroom floors so that they'll be ready for the new products we're introducing.
But the market is in general behaving very well.
And as I say we did a discounting a bit for some older product to make sure that the pipeline was clean.
As we look at our pipeline in the field and we look at boats 0 to 100 -- 360 days 18 months over 2 years et cetera all of our statistics are down.
That is favorable to what we've been in the past.
So we're really getting our pipeline very clean.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And then just to clarify again the guidance you revised the lower end down $0.15 but there's a $0.20 impact the difference the upside in the $0.05 is the lower end of the range.
Would it -- can you give us a little more color on that? Why we raised the bottom end of the guidance? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Bruce made me.
No as we progress through the year and we're getting a better look at the marketplace our margin performance how the market's going to accept our new product we're quite comfortable we ought to narrow the range.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Swartz with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on some of your commentary and MarineMax had echoed this with regards to the over 30-foot fiberglass inboard market and some of the I guess some of the strength you're seeing there versus the I guess the dichotomy with the lower or under 30-foot product.
I mean taking a step back what's really driving the difference there? Is it new product or is it something about the way the market or the consumer is coming back? Well it's quite interesting.
The under 30 feet with an outboard on it is all doing well.
Under 30 feet with sterndrive on it continues to be a tough place to be.
And that's what I think all the statistics show Mike.
The over 30 feet is driven by in my judgment first a lot of great new product in our 350 SLX especially sort of the 30 to 40 feet.
But we've been gaining lots of share there and the market is up there in our view over 5%.
And that includes ourselves.
And in fact there's some other builders doing some great job of putting these large sterndrive runabouts into the market.
And saltwater fish with outboard which is of course fiberglass continues to do very well and a lot of folks are putting a lot of great product in the market in that category.
Then when we move above 40 feet as you look at the numbers bigger stuff is doing pretty good in the 40 range can still be a bit of a tough place for everybody to play.
We've had to view for a long time that above 40 was going to be a good place to be and that's why we spent so much time getting product ready going to that market and my judgment is we'll be rewarded for that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and then just shifting over to I guess some of your commentary around timing of investments.
How should we look at that? Were there just some things that you couldn't fit into the quarter? Or I guess just general commentary? Yes.
As our folks out who run our businesses gauge what they can get done within a particular quarter our goal always is to really get it done right don't just go spend the money because we put it in the budget et cetera.
And what you see with our operating unit heads many times is that they're working their way through a quarter.
The sun don't shine 365 days a year as they're working on our project.
I won't say they'll hit a snag but they'll hit a point in which they want to think more about it and decide what they do next and they don't just continue to throw money at it.
So we're always encouraged when our operating units come in and say I'm still going to spend the money I still believe in the project I believe the investment needs to be made I believe it will fuel future growth.
But I just wasn't quite ready to pull the trigger in this quarter.
I'm going to do it next quarter.
We stay very relaxed about those things.
And in fact congratulate our operating guys for coming in and having that discussion.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dusty a couple of pieces here.
I guess one is more near-term one is a little bit more long-term.
You talked about pipelines and you talked about specifically Canada and Latin America.
Can you talk about July trends what you’re seeing in just in general in retail in the U.S.? And please correct me if I'm wrong here it would seem that even though your pipeline inventories are up a little bit in aluminum the outboard fiberglass that could be a little bit of the weather we caught in the early part of the second quarter now you're expecting that to improve.
So I guess that's all one collective question.
And the second question would be 2016 goals.
And part of the domestic your announcement you basically reiterated the base case and it appear also the optimistic case goals despite the $0.21 to $0.23 headwind.
Can you give us a little bit more detail as to why you feel confident in that? Because you're effectively raising the guidance here on the 2016 goal.
First pipeline and retail trend June was a good month.
July is feeling like June at this particular point in time.
In terms of the pipeline and in aluminum are -- the only place we felt a little heavy on pipeline was in Canada which is completely understandable in light of what has been happening to retail there.
We are probably going to need to add the pipeline in pontoon.
As we went into our new plant in the third quarter last year and introduced a bunch of new models and model year.
We and our supply base we're unable to get in sync and keep up and I think we got a little bit behind what the market wanted and what our dealers wanted so we need to use this third and fourth quarter to get ourselves right with our dealer network and consumers.
So that's a real goal as we go forward.
So again in pipeline we're quite pleased and happy with what our guys have been doing out there.
Why we stayed on the base case and taking $0.20 out is we think there are lots of levers Tim that we can pull as we go between now and 2016.
So if we step back and -- this starts to bring us into the question of as a management team what are we going to do with the significant amount of cash that we'll get from the bowling transaction and with a significant amount of cash free cash flow we're going to be generating both this year and in coming years.
And we sort of think of this in 3 buckets and I'll come back to the guidance Tim.
Investing in the business taking care of the pension plan returning capital to shareholders.
And we need to get the balance right of all those and investing in the business and returning capital to shareholders if it's in a share repurchase program both are additions to 2016 earnings.
Now for the investment in the business if it includes acquisitions then we're going to need to get them done in 2015.
And we have a nice-looking pipeline and when you -- one goes to work on acquisitions you don't get them all.
Buyers and sellers can't always agree with due diligence process both parties reach a decision maybe not to go forward.
But we've got a nice pipeline of work to do there.
We're probably adding some resources to ensure that we stay on track and on pace with our plan.
So that's one area where we get comfort.
Obviously a share repurchase program would benefit earnings in 2016 and it's something we likely need to put in place but I want us to stay very focused right now on growth and that involves both acquiring as well as starting new businesses as well as continue to look on what we can do with the assets we have today.
So we're doing a lot of work internally as we always do with what we're going to do strategically but we are blessed now that we have all the free cash flow and cash we're going to have we can begin to think about things a little differently and we're doing a lot of work in order to get there.
So from our perspective 2016 is just not an issue.
We will get there.
What we're really focused on as a management team is it's 2016 and beyond.
And we're committed to 2016 and we'll do it.
The real question is what can we really turn this business into going forward and this big strategic disposition we made has been a part of our thinking about what we want the business to look like in the future.
So we spent a lot of time on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess just to clarify then are you saying that the acquisitions in share repo[ph] do or do not have as parts of the path to get to that 2016 base case scenario? Or is that more of the optimistic scenario? They're part of the path to get to the base case scenario in our thinking right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of the clarification back to you mentioned about the pontoon pipeline you probably need to bulk that up a little bit.
So the 19- to 30-foot portion of the sterndrive market you continue to see a shift in the pontoons and maybe the ski-wakeboard segment as we've seen the last couple of years is that ongoing in your view? And again if you're picking up on the pontoon I mean not to say you'll care but I mean is on is are getting more of the engine feel pretty comfortable with that still? Yes.
The one thing the comment I would make yes clearly the sterndrive 130-foot product buyers had a migration to both pontoons and [indiscernible] product.
There's a big cut in here.
We're beginning to see real movement now in outboard-based fiberglass product under 30 feet.
It is not ski product and obviously not a pontoon.
And there's really nice growth there all driven by different propulsion difficult with the product.
These outboard engines are becoming just magnificent pieces of machinery.
So it's not all just pontoon and ski.
We're now beginning to see an increase in outboard use product there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley.
Research Division</strong> So looking at your updated guidance the 10% to 12% top line growth in the back half of the year as we kind of bring that down to the segment level looks like you'll have perhaps the strongest growth on the boat side and that obviously pulls your Mercury with it.
But if you're looking at Mercury let's say excluding intercompany sales are you expecting an organic acceleration in the back half? And if so what's driving that? Yes we do expect an acceleration from second quarter rates let's say we don't count first quarter.
And it's driven heavily by new product.
We continue to do a very good job of taking care of fill rates for P&amp;A around the world and we think we're going to be taking some market share with a lot of the new product that we have coming out and this business in addition to this white space Jimmy [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a follow-up on the impact of this wave of new models that you have on your existing sitting pipeline inventory.
Your comments seem relatively in line with Marine Max earlier today.
You talked about becoming a little bit more promotional to help clear the deck ahead of the arrival of your new product.
And realizing that a lot of moving parts of the margin side of your business given the production ramp you're undertaking.
But can you just help us tease out how long this period will last or you need to support sell-through of the legacy pipeline inventory before the true margin profile of your new product portfolio would be seen? I think we're getting to the end.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> In the past you've talked about incremental margin in the low 20 range including some investments spending.
And I know bowling was fairly small but I would wonder how that -- how you would look at incremental margin now that bowling is no longer part of the portfolio? Yes Craig This is Bill.
I would say that the 20 to 25 on a long-term basis still holds true.
But clearly in the short term we've been and are projecting that we're going to do better than that.
And I would say some of it's just the benefit to the new product lift some of it's the fact that our product quality has been a little bit better than we thought it had been in the plan and a little front-end loaded there.
And our operations are just performing pretty well.
So I think long-term that range is still in play but clearly in the short term here we're doing a little bit better than what we thought.
I want to comment everybody -- operator this is not a criticism to you.
We're getting questions and then it feels like maybe the questioner is getting cut off really quick.
We just wondered -- we're not doing that on purpose.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions and feel free to cut me off whenever you want.
That's just not our style.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The boat revenues I think you used to give [indiscernible] but can you update that between fiberglass outboard fiberglass sterndrive inboard and then your aluminum business? In terms of -- I'm sorry you sort of broke up there.
The first piece in terms of growth rate? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The revenue split.
It used to be like 40/40/20 and then it's been shifting.
Did you have an update on where that's at now given all the changes we've been making? I mean it's not inconsistent with what the investor decks have been from the second quarter.
I would agree.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then...
[indiscernible] the growth we're going to experience we're certainly getting a little bit more out of the rec fiberglass businesses but we're going to get growth out of all of the businesses in the back half of the year.
So there's not a dramatic shift that's occurring in '14.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like I mean we all know about the product at the 35 to 65 feet that's been coming up but it sounds like you've got some stuff coming in the kind of sub-30-foot range in the Sea Ray brand including some more outboard boats is that correct? Yes we've been introducing some outboard runabouts outboard deck boats.
And as we look at second quarter we add some nice market share gains with this product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is that product in the market already? I was under the impression it's coming this fall.
No.
Some of it is in the market.
There's more to come.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
On Fitness it seems like the U.S.
health club landscape is growing but consolidating we've got a few bigger players out there.
Is their scale and buying power is that something that could put pressure on your margins? Yes.
Okay.
And then on capacity utilization.
Maybe you could update us where you are in the Marine businesses.
What kind of capacity you have available.
And then how long we are until we max out.
And maybe an update on what's in mothballs and that can be a quickly brought up to speed.
Sure.
We talked about this before sort of to remind us all we size ourselves for around 220 000 unit market in terms of production capacity in Marine.
Pontoon has exceeded that on an equivalent basis.
Aluminum is there and going above and we think fiberglass outboard which would -- especially in saltwater which would be our Whaler brand is going there very quickly.
So we've made last year big investments in pontoon capacity.
That will let us run for a long time.
We're completing a big investment in our largest aluminum fishbowl plant up in New York Mills Minnesota.
That's coming online as we speak.
And that gives us a pretty good runway.
And we're in the let's say 20% through plant expansion at Boston Whaler which will give that business plenty of runway.
In our bigger boats we've got lots of room and the way to think of that is that market is still down fairly significantly from prerecession levels and we got room for that market to go back to the equivalent of 200 000 units and it's got a good bit of runway ahead of it in order to get there.
At Mercury the outboard market has grown faster than the sterndrive market.
And on equivalent basis it's exceeded where we thought the market would be at this point in time.
So we said we've been investing pick a numbers say 25 million a year last year this year and next year an increasing capacity at Mercury it's not only in assembly but it's in the casting machining tooling and assembly.
And that will all be done next year and we all have a long runway ahead of us there also.
So some places we've been tight.
We've been making investment.
Other places we've got room and I think we'll be fine.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is just specifically in the quarter on the engine business.
You had a little bit of over 3%.
Sales growth and then operating income of more like 2.5.
So the incremental margin was just like a little bit maybe below what you guys have talked about historically.
Is that mostly mix-related or was there something else that popped up in there in the quarter in terms of efficiencies or anything? We referenced a couple of insurance settlements that occurred in 2013 that generated some income in the second quarter of last year.
That was a headwind and that it's just incremental investment spending.
If you strip those 2 out there their incremental leverage is just fine.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- you talked about being sold out on some of the new product and just being a little bit capacity-constrained again.
So I mean if we think about maybe the industry overall getting a little bit better here as we exit the season and maybe last a little bit longer.
I mean how much are you really able to participate in that? Or are you just viewing that as sort of a better sign that sets you up a little bit better as we think about 2015 and beyond? If the industry increases -- with all the investments we've made in aluminum fish pontoon and investment we're making in saltwater we can participate enormously.
In the bigger boat -- let's do smaller fiberglass sterndrive boats we're fine.
In the bigger stuff it feels like we're capacity-constrained right now because we're in ramp-up mode with all these new product.
And what we try to convey and I don't think I do a very good job in explaining this is we introduce a new model we know how many weeks months et cetera it will take us to get to full run rate and it's fairly complex actually.
So let's take our new 650 Sea Ray.
You think of everything that goes into that boat we've got to coordinate the supply chain to have it all there and we've got to train ourselves as we move that product from product development over to the plant floor on actually how to build it.
And that's a fairly complicated dance with hundreds of people involved.
So as we start to ramp up we say I'm going to make this up because I don't want to give anything away competitively.
It'll take us 6 boats over 7 months.
And again I'm making these numbers up to go from a standing start to normal run rate.
Once we're at run rate then we can increase run rate very easily because it's just then a matter of turning it over if you will.
But as we go through the learning process we can't do much faster than the ramp up process we designed and we're in ramp-up mode for instance with the 650.
We're sort of coming out in ramp-up mode for the 51.
I think we're at a ramp up mode for the 35 the 350 SLX.
But we've got 2 58s coming.
And when we throw those in it'll feel slow as we get started.
So our dealer network and a couple of people of reference perhaps the Marine Max call and I'll need to go read the transcript but I can understand where the dealer networks has said man [ph] I got to ramp up [ph] off-boat I can sell you can maybe give me more.
And our answer always is we'll get there but we've got to get this model integrated and ramped up before we can begin to increase production rates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one housekeeping.
So for modeling purposes as we sort of change things over was -- and I'm sorry if I missed this somewhere.
But was bowling about $0.02 in the quarter? So maybe on an adjusted basis $0.02 lower versus what you guys actually printed? It would have been a penny.
Closer to a penny.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Please proceed.
Operator first thank you for your help today.
As always thanks everyone for being on the call.
We love your questions.
They're always good.
As you can see we're predicting and forecasting and planning for a very strong second half.
So you'll see the whole organization with our sleeves rolled up now because we've got a lot of work to get done over the coming weeks and months.
Thank everybody for your interest and I'm sure we'll be seeing you as the weeks progress as we go through the second half.
This concludes today's event.
Thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation's 2014 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would like to also remind you that the figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
On July 17 of this year the company announced the signing of an agreement to sell its Retail Bowling business and its intention to sell its Bowling Products business.
On September 18 the sale of the Retail Bowling business was completed.
Starting with the third quarter of 2014 the historical and future results of these businesses are now reported as discontinued operations and the historical and future results of the Billiards business which remains with the company are now reflected in the company's Fitness segment.
Therefore for all periods in this presentation all figures and outlook statements incorporate these changes and reflect continuing operations only.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thank you Bruce.
Good morning everyone and we'll start with an overview of our third quarter results.
Revenue in the quarter increased 13%.
We experienced double-digit growth in outboard boats and engines marine parts and accessories fiberglass sterndrive inboard boats and fitness equipment which is partially offset by a decline in sterndrive engines.
Our gross margin has increased by 20 basis points compared to the prior year.
Operating expenses increased by 1% as we continue to invest in numerous strategic initiatives at increasing levels.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 45% versus the prior year.
Net interest expense was reduced by $1.2 million.
As a result adjusted pretax earnings increased by 56% while diluted EPS as adjusted increased by $0.05 to $0.63 reflecting a higher 2014 effective tax rate.
All 3 of our segments reported double-digit top line growth in the quarter.
Sales in our combined Marine segments increased by 14% while our Fitness segment increased by 11%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 15%.
Sales to Europe increased by 19% due to growth in Marine sales.
If we exclude the impact of the Whale acquisition sales to Europe increased by 13%.
Rest of World sales increased by 6% versus the prior year period due to gains in Fitness.
In summary then combined sales outside the U.S.
increased by 10%.
In the 9 months the Fitness and Boat segments reported top line improvements of 7% and 6% respectively.
Record year-to-date sales were up 4%.
These year-to-date growth rates are now at or approaching our full year guidance targets.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 6%.
Sales to Europe increased by 10% due to growth in Marine sales.
Rest of World sales declined by 1% versus the prior year period due to weakness in Marine markets mostly offset by gains in our Fitness segment.
In summary consolidated sales outside the U.S.
increased by 3% for the 9 months.
Adjusted operating earnings were $94.6 million for the quarter an increase of $29.3 million compared to 2013.
Operating margins excluding charges increased by 220 basis points to 10.1%.
The increase in operating margin includes the impact of the strong sales growth combined with a slight increase in operating expenses of 1%.
During the third quarter operating expenses continue to reflect investment in numerous strategic initiatives and continued emphasis on expense control.
In addition corporate expenses decreased when compared with the prior year due to lower variable compensation expense as well as favorable mark-to-market adjustments on certain equity-based awards.
We're forecasting operating expenses in the fourth quarter will increase by a low single-digit percentage when compared to the prior year.
For the 9 months adjusted operating earnings were $317.9 million an increase of $33.5 million compared to 2013.
Our operating margin excluding charges increased by 70 basis points to 11%.
As a result of a solid improvement in our adjusted operating earnings combined with lower net interest expense and higher other income adjusted pretax earnings in the third quarter increased by approximately $32 million or 56%.
For the 9 months adjusted pretax earnings increased by $48.6 million or 19%.
Diluted EPS on continuing operations as adjusted for the quarter equaled $0.63 per share reflecting a 9% increase.
As a reminder our reported EPS for 2014 reflects a significant year-over-year increase in our effective booked tax rate.
Diluted EPS on continuing operations as adjusted for the 9 months equaled $2.09 per share.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $2.41 per share in the prior year.
If we apply our 34% tax rate to our 2013 our 2014 EPS as adjusted would reflect an 18% growth rate.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'll take a moment to provide some perspectives on the global marine market.
The U.S.
market is unfolding generally consistent with our annual expectations of solid growth in outboard boat and engine products as well as parts and accessories partially offset by fiberglass sterndrive weakness.
Year-to-date the U.S.
power boat industry is up approximately 4.5%.
On a rolling 12-month basis the market has improved by about 4.7%.
In the fiberglass sterndrive inboard boat category which also affects sterndrive inboard engine production modest year-to-date unit growth in boats greater than 30 feet is being more than offset by declines in boats under 30 feet.
Certain international markets however have experienced declines in retail sales specifically in Canada and South America.
In Canada an unusually cold and wet spring led to a late start to the boating season and currency variability caused some consumers to delay or defer purchases.
In South America weaker-than-expected economic conditions are the primary factor causing the lower market demand in Brazil Argentina and Venezuela.
Although we're experiencing excellent top line growth in Europe due to factors that Bill will elaborate on we believe the majority of the European marine marketplace is very challenging.
In total year-to-date global marine growth is below our annual expectations.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill for a closer look at our segment results and financials.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment where sales were up 11% in the quarter.
From a geographic perspective sales in the U.S.
were up 9% reflecting an increase in outboard engines and parts and accessories which was partially offset by the impact of lower sterndrive inboard engine revenues.
Sales to Mercury's European customers increased by approximately $17 million or 35% as growth was experienced in outboard engines and parts and accessories.
Growth in parts and accessories benefited from the recent Whale acquisition and growth initiatives while stronger outboard performance included benefits from new products improved conditions in the Nordic region and sales timing.
For the 9 months sales to Europe were up 10%.
Rest of the World sales increased by 2% and these regions benefited from gains in outboard engines as well as parts and accessories while sterndrive inboard engine revenues were down compared to the prior year.
Latin America was the only major region to experience declines in overall sales.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported solid overall sales growth in the third quarter of 2014 which included Mercury's new 75- 90- and 115-horsepower FourStrokes.
These new engines which are built with the same architecture as the popular 150-horsepower FourStroke have also been well received by OEMs and consumers.
Our outlook for the outboard engine business continues to reflect favorable retail demand in most markets in both categories.
On the sterndrive side Mercury's award-winning and recently launched 4.5-liter 250-horsepower purpose-built engine is receiving very positive feedback from OEMs.
Sterndrive engine sales however continue to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends while diesel engine sales were up slightly year-to-date.
Mercury parts and accessories businesses delivered strong sales growth during the quarter with gains in most major markets except Latin America.
Revenue benefited from recent acquisitions new product launches and market share gains.
The acquisitions of Whale and Bell Recreational Products Group accounted for approximately $15 million or 3 percentage points of Mercury's overall revenue growth rate in the quarter.
We again reported record sales in the third quarter at Land 'N' Sea and Attwood.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 24% compared to last year's third quarter.
Operating margins were 16.5% 180 basis points higher than the prior year quarter.
The improvement in operating earnings included the benefit from higher sales recently launched outboard products and favorable warranty experience.
In our Boat segment third quarter revenues increased by 22%.
This included balanced growth in sales of outboard boats as well as in fiberglass sterndrive inboard boats.
In the U.S.
which represents over 2/3 of its segment sales increased by 31%.
European sales increased by approximately $4 million or 36% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of larger higher-priced products by our European outboard board brands.
Rest of the World sales decreased by 2% which reflected the weaker demand in Canada and South America referred to by Dusty earlier in the call.
In the third quarter Brunswick's global retail unit sales increased by 7% compared to the prior year.
Global wholesale unit shipments also increased by 7%.
This compares to the Boat group dollar sales increase of 22% as the segment also benefited from higher average selling prices resulting from a favorable shift in mix across most of its boat lines.
For the 9 months global retail unit sales increased by 1% compared to the prior year while global wholesale unit shipments were flat.
Our plan assumes that wholesale unit growth rate for the full year will be consistent with our retail unit growth rate.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter with 27 weeks of boats on hand measured on trailing 12-month retail basis which is 1 week higher than the prior year level.
Pipelines for aluminum and fiberglass outboard boards are up compared to last year due to an expanded distribution network new product introductions and weaker-than-expected retail demand in Canada.
Fiberglass sterndrive inboard pipelines were down versus the prior year.
Our current pipeline levels are appropriate given our annual [indiscernible] in the various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with these overall levels.
The Boat segment's third quarter adjusted operating earnings improved by $8.2 million or 57% when compared to the prior year.
This improvement resulted from higher sales including several new product introductions along with increased production rates and capacity.
Operating performance in the quarter did include costs associated with new product integrations and production ramp-up.
Sales of Life Fitness increased by 11% resulting from growth in the U.S.
to health clubs hospitality and local and federal government customers as well as net sales growth in international markets especially in the Middle East Africa and Latin America.
The segment continued to benefit from new product introductions in all regions with this quarter representing its eighth consecutive quarter of revenue growth.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter increased slightly as the impact of higher sales was partially offset by lower gross margin percent and continued increases in growth initiatives investments.
In the quarter foreign currency had minimal impact on changes in total consolidated sales and operating earnings.
For the full year 2014 versus 2013 comparisons we currently estimate that exchange rates will also have a minimal impact on sales and operating earnings.
We do however expect a slight unfavorable impact on Q4.
These comparisons include the impact of our hedge programs and assume that rates remain consistent with current levels for the remainder of the year.
Now I would like to provide some brief comments on our tax provision.
Our effective booked tax rate as adjusted was slightly below 34% for both the quarter and 9-month periods.
Our plan assumes that the as adjusted rate for the full year would be consistent with the year-to-date rate.
Our estimated effective cash tax rate continues to reflect a low double-digit percent level.
I would also like to note that our effective booked tax rate for 2014 excludes any potential benefit from an extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit.
Turning to our review of our year-to-date cash flow statement.
Cash provided by continuing operating activities was $122.7 million a decrease of $17.8 million versus the prior year.
Pension contributions were a factor in the year-over-year decline due to planned increases and timing of contributions.
In addition net increases in our primary working capital accounts totaled approximately $151 million.
Excluding acquisitions the biggest changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $42 million; inventory increased by $74 million; accrued expenses decreased by $55 million; and accounts payable increased by $22 million.
To date working capital movements have been unfavorable versus the prior year due mostly to changes in inventory which resulted from new product introductions along with higher sales and production levels.
For the remainder of the year we anticipate that working capital changes will be favorable versus 2013 and in the full year with the net usage of $40 million to $60 million.
Total year-to-date free cash flow amounted to $49 million versus approximately $69 million in the prior year a difference of about $20 million.
Year-to-date capital spending was in line with the prior year at approximately $80 million which included investments in new products in our Marine and Fitness businesses as well as capacity expansion projects.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments and growth and enhance shareholder returns.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $597 million at the end of the quarter.
The increase of $228 million from year-end 2013 reflects the net proceeds received from the sale of the Retail Bowling business and free cash flow from continuing operations which were more than offset by acquisitions and dividends during the 9 months of $42 million and $30 million respectively.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2014.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $80 million.
We expect our 2014 pension expense to be approximately $15 million which is a decrease of $4 million from 2013.
Net interest expense is expected to be in the range of $28 million to $29 million.
We anticipate that our restructuring charges will be between $4 million and $5 million in 2014 and we expect our diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 95 million to 95.5 million.
As you are aware we announced on Wednesday that our board has authorized a share repurchase program of $200 million.
We expect to systematically complete this program over approximately a 2-year period beginning in the fourth quarter.
Consequently there will be no meaningful impact on Q4 and full year of shares outstanding.
On the cash flow side the company plans to make cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of approximately $75 million in 2014.
This includes an estimated amount which will be used to fund planned lump sum settlement payments to certain participants.
I would like to note that our restructuring charge estimate and adjusted earnings per share do not include the impact of any pension-related settlement charges associated with this payout plan.
Our plan reflects capital expenditures of approximately $140 million with a substantial portion directed at growth and profit-enhancing projects including meeting capacity expansion requirements in each of our segments.
Despite higher investment spending levels and a modest usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in the range of $110 million to $135 million.
I will now turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thanks Bill.
Our operating plans and assumptions for full year remain fairly consistent with those we've been communicating throughout the year after adjusting for the bowling divestitures.
We continue to target 2014 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects approximately 6% sales growth which includes benefit from the success of our new products and continuation of the growth illustrated in U.S.
thus far in 2014 as well as a mixed performance in the international market.
We continue to anticipate a solid improvement in gross margin levels.
As a result of ongoing growth investments full year operating expenses adjusted for the divestitures will increase but as a percentage of sales are expected to be lower than 2013 levels approximately 17.6%.
As a result our pretax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong growth of 28% to 31%.
On our last earnings call we established our 2014 EPS as adjusted guidance of $2.25 to $2.35.
Today we're updating our guidance to a range of $2.30 to $2.35.
The full year financial targets for our 3 operating segments remain largely unchanged.
Our overall plan reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine segment.
Specifically we're planning for a full year revenue growth in the mid-single-digit range with a solid improvement in operating margins.
We will continue to make significant investments in Mercury.
Looking at our Boat segment.
Our plan assumes that we continue to successfully execute our large fiberglass boat strategy which will help to generate growth in the fourth quarter and is a key part of an increasing number of new products that will be shift into the market.
As a result we should continue to see the benefit from a more favorable sales mix leading to higher average sell prices.
Continued strong performance in outboard boats and contributions from our Brazil operations should also benefit the segment's growth in the final quarter.
As a result we're targeting 2014 annual revenue growth into the high single-digit range with a solid improvement in operating earnings.
Further we anticipate a significant year-over-year improvement in operating losses during the fourth quarter but the segment is expected to have a modest seasonal operating loss.
Our full year plan reflects the segment achieving solid profitability.
In our Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
Our 2014 and 3-year plans are both targeting revenue growth in the mid-single to high single-digit range.
We'll continue to make significant investments to Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation to achieve competitive differentiation in its products and services which will continue to enable market share growth and create business opportunities beyond its core business model.
And although Life Fitness's margins could decline slightly in 2014 as a result of these investments our plan continues to reflect very healthy margins in this business.
In closing I want to comment on our current capital strategy.
We will continue to maintain strong cash and liquidity positions.
This strong foundation combined with continued execution on our growth plan should enable us to regain an investment-grade credit rating.
Our top priority will be to deploy capital to strengthen our Marine and Fitness segments.
We will do this both organically through continued investment in capital expenditures R&amp;D and SG&amp;A.
This commitment is an important foundation in our efforts to drive an aggressive pace of new product introduction which is imperative in our overall goal to grow revenue and market share.
We'll also be actively pursuing acquisition opportunities with an initial focus on Mercury's parts and accessory businesses.
As we've told you we've already completed 2 such acquisitions.
In doing so we've executed about 20% of the plan thus far and anticipating executing additional transactions over the next several years.
We'll continue to grow our Fitness business by expanding into new product categories and growing distribution and customer segments and regions we serve throughout the world.
In addition we're currently exploring and piloting certain adjacency opportunities in both the fitness equipment and health and wellness sectors as well as pursuing acquisitions.
Finally we plan to execute our pension derisking plans as well as return cash to shareholders through a balanced approach that includes dividends and share repurchases.
Yesterday's announced authorization for the repurchase of stock reflects our confidence in the successful execution of our operating and financial plan as well as in our future performance.
And with that we'll quit talking and take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
It looks like things are really playing out the way you guys suggested that they would.
Some nice acceleration here in the back half or at least in the third quarter of '15.
It seems like the fourth quarter is probably going to look pretty similar.
I guess my question is as we look to 2015 can you maybe talk about how that year is shaping up? It seems at least in the first half you're going to benefit from a lot of the things that are driving this double-digit-type top line growth here in the second half of '14.
So maybe in the context of your mid- to high single-digit longer-term targets how should we think about 2015 just given all the dry powder you guys have with respect to new products? First James thanks for the compliment.
And the folks talking to you here are very little to deal with it because all our people are out in the field and we always want to make sure that we and everybody who works for this recognizes that.
In terms of 2015 a fair question with the big acceleration that we've seen here in the second half as I look at '15 I think we'll see continued revenue growth within the range that we had given for the 2014 through 2016 time period that we laid out in November last year up in New York.
So that's 5% to 7%.
As we -- and I think the next thing we probably have to focus on is leverage.
We -- and again my judgment is today that we'll see leverage in the 20% to 25% range.
We had said last November that we thought this year would be on the high end or a little above that range.
But that as we look over the 3-year period we would be within that range and I think that will prove to be true in 2015.
So as we sit here today that's how I'm looking at 2015 in how it ought to shape up.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then to the leverage point in the third quarter engine business leverage looks great north of 30% by my math.
Can you sort of help us understand what's driving that? I think you spoke to a favorable warranty expense maybe quantify that? And then the Boat business south of 20% that doesn't look nearly as good.
I know you had some integration and product ramp-up going on there.
How significant was that? When does that roll off? How should we think about sort of normalized rates at least in the fourth quarter? James I'll take that.
This is Bill.
On the Mercury side volume was obviously a very key factor for Mercury as well as the new outboard engine product that was introduced.
That got a favorable margin impact as well.
So for Mercury there were a handful of items along with warranty that were very favorable for them in the quarter which is why the leverage was so high.
On the Boat side the integration cost and the production ramp-up related to stuff is really probably the biggest headwind that they faced but you also have to remember that the growth in dollars between our larger fiberglass product and the rest of the portfolio was pretty balanced.
So the leverage that they produced for the quarter isn't necessarily outside the boundaries of what you would expect when you've got balance between those 2 things.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then Dusty maybe just last question here on the capital strategy.
Maybe walk us through your change in philosophy here in the last couple of years in terms of finally announcing this buyback.
And then other potential uses of cash it seems $200 million is only a portion of the cash you're going to have available to you guys over the next couple of years.
Maybe talk about the pension sort of what's the payback on paying down I don't know every $50 million of that liability in terms of the pension expense.
And then how are you guys thinking about returns in terms of some of the acquisitions that you're making should they be similar to what we've seen with Whale and Bell? I'll start off and then let Bill address the pension.
Yes I had been pretty public it would be over my dead body that we would do a share repurchase program and I haven't been murdered and I'm still here.
And our share repurchase reflects 2 or 3 things that I think are really important to those of you who cover us and our shareholders.
We have gotten progressively stronger now quarter-by-quarter since the recession started in 2008.
And my personal position on the share repurchase program was frankly to keep the wolves away from the door looking for a share repurchase program to give us time to really get our growth initiatives solidified in the company get the spending ramped up that we need to do in order to drive the growth initiatives and to begin to see the benefit of all that and we knew it would cost us a lot of money.
We knew it require internal change.
And if you look back and I'm sure you have been for -- on a trailing 4-quarter basis during the second quarter of this year we didn't report much income gain.
And we did a good job of generating cash but we knew that we had to get through this time period and we knew as early as 2009 2010 that these days will come when we had to make big investments and then that again result from the investment.
So all that is playing out really well frankly in accordance with our plans.
And I couldn't be more proud of our folks who started from product development all the way to the sales force.
Then as we look forward for where we can take the company -- and I've laughingly said our goal now is to become boring.
As we look at really nice top line growth we've given our judgment as to what it will be through 2016.
What my judgment is really nice leverage when one remembers how we're continuing to accelerate spending on growth initiatives and product.
So as I look at the stock price today frankly we've begun to reach the conclusion it's a good investment for us to be buying our stock and there is a return that's a darn good return.
So it's a good allocation of our capital as we look at where we stand today versus where we're going to be in the future.
So that's been -- it's not -- of course I've changed in the external statements but I'm not being disingenuous when I tell you we haven't really changed about how we've been thinking about when we're going to do a share buyback and how we want the company to be positioned before we did it.
I'll ask Bill because he's been the architect of our entire pension strategy and it's been wonderfully executed in a very low interest rate environment which makes it difficult to deal with these long-tailed pensions that we have talked about that and sort of the returns we're looking for on these acquisitions.
Yes.
James on the pension side our funding strategy it's still pretty consistent.
We're -- of the $75 million we're putting in this year about $50 million of it is what we're required to put in under a risk and so we continue to have an annual funding obligation that we need to fund.
The incremental $25 million is related to this lump sum buyout strategy which allows us to take care of these liabilities at an attractive rate before they have the ability to kind of grow over time.
And we feel that the returns on that stack up pretty well against other things in our list of kind of capital structure opportunity share repurchases acquisitions et cetera by kind of retiring debt at a discount to what we think the ultimate cost is going to be for the company.
And every dollar that we put in you have to remember that we get a tax deduction and we get to earn money at kind of a tax sheltered rate which really helps the returns especially when you compare it to just holding cash where it's really tough to make any sort of return on cash investments in this environment.
And then on the acquisition side we're certainly focused there on trying to get returns that are well above what our weighted average cost of capital is.
I would kind of peg that at mid- to high teens with the synergies contributing something to get you to the high teens.
Possibly into the low 20s is what the targets would be.
So that's the way we're looking at those 2 different uses of capital.
And then James to come back into the sort of what I view as the overarching part of your question and that is okay you're doing a $200 million share repurchase.
You said you want to have $300 million to $400 million when we say "Stay at the high side of that cash on hand at the year-end to help us through any downturns that may come.
And then it's easy to provided the math and say "Well there's still additional cash." And what I'll say today is that is -- this is the fact that we're not tagging that for anything else ought to be an indication that we think we've got lots of growth potential going forward.
We're looking at not only growth in our businesses that we operate today in the way we operate them but we're working very hard on growth adjacencies and we want to make sure that we've got the powder to go do those when we want them on our terms on the timing that we want to do them.
And while we're not afraid to go to that market for a great adjacency move either organically or through acquisitions our view is right now we're going to be able to do many things with the available cash that we're going to have and still have lots of borrowing capacity for the rainy days or the big one that may come along.
So we're pretty excited in -- the world is -- our company is moving to where we had hoped we would beginning in 2009 and it's playing out nicely and we're really focused on growth and we're pretty excited about what the opportunities are going to be.
Our next question comes from Mike Swartz from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch base on boat ASPs for the quarter.
It looks like just doing the math they were up kind of 15% and I think they were kind of up mid-single-digit last quarter.
I guess 2 questions.
One how did Sea Ray contribute to that ASP mix number this quarter? And is that the type of growth that we should expect over the next 2 3 4 quarters? Certainly expect it for the remainder of the year on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
And then as we look at our production and in retail-wholesale mix it's a little harder in '15.
We can begin to scope that but I think it will be up in '15 versus '14.
But that's the percentage that you're seeing right now ought to be good through the remainder of this year.
The big driver of that has been in fiberglass boats and for us that's Sea Ray Meridian Bayliner but -- and never forget Boston Whaler also and all that we're doing in that brand.
So Sea Ray is the largest piece of that.
Sea Ray would be the bigger -- biggest driver of it but it's happening also in our other brands.
And not just that because I really don't want to minimize the work that's being done in our aluminum boat businesses be it share new product -- it's also beginning to show up in AUP quite nicely here in this quarter and I think it will continue also.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just touching on -- I know currency has been a headwind for a number of folks with international operations.
Could you just talk about maybe this is for Bill just the incremental change in FX from when you gave guidance in July to where we stand today and then maybe how you think about that in 2015? Maybe modestly unfavorable to where we gave guidance in July but nothing that created significant headwinds for us in the quarter.
And then as we look into the fourth quarter this year the headwinds get to be a little bit stronger.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any commentary on '15 with where we stand today? I would say it's going to be a headwind hard to quantify as I sit here today.
There's just too much can happen between now and when we get into there.
And you got to remember too Michael that we from an earnings perspective do quite a bit of hedging out on a forward 12-month basis which minimizes our variability quite a bit as we go forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I would assume some of the local manufacturing in Europe also helps to create that natural hedge? And there's a fair amount of our international sales Michael that get done in dollars and the market pricing happens in dollars and it doesn't have that same sort of currency risk that some of our other businesses does.
The next question comes from Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Nice execution here during the ramp-up.
Thanks Jimmy.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up here on the Boat group.
So there you're really benefiting from higher wholesale shipments of sterndrive and inboard and then some of those higher-priced fiberglass products.
And yet despite the industry being down in that category your dealer pipeline inventory is actually down in that category.
So I know you don't break out your retail performance by boat category but it's pretty obvious you're gaining a nice chunk of share there on the higher-priced category.
So can you help us kind of quantify or order of magnitude how you're thinking about the opportunity for share gains through the 2015 selling season? And then I guess the follow-on to that is is the sterndrive inboard pipeline declining intentionally at this point? Or if you were able to keep up with demand would you prefer for that to be more flattish going forward? Let me do the last part first.
It is declining intentionally and as we see a lot of the new products the high-priced product our goal is to work with the dealer network so that their borrowings et cetera to keep product on the showroom floor as low as possible.
So we're working with the dealer network to try to retail as many -- as much product as possible without having to do stocking.
And so that's the big step and it's working well.
And then we have just the practical side of this thing.
We got a lot of big products that's -- frankly demand at retail is so big that we were not going to be able to feel they need to stock anyway for a while.
Then for those segments that continue to be in decline it's important to us that we work with the dealer network to keep them stocked appropriately for what the market looks like and where we think it's going.
So the whole fiberglass stocking issue is being done number one to help the dealers; number two with an eye on the market; and number three frankly we're being forced there a bit by just real extreme retail demand.
Yes.
And I think the only thing I'd add to that Dusty is that the decline in year-over-year is more about the actions that we took in the first half of the year versus the activity in the quarter which was pretty balanced.
Good point.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just any commentary about opportunity for share gains into 2015 on the -- and some of the higher ASP categories.
And maybe if you could just talk a little bit about how your Boat group order book stands today in those categories versus your expectations? Or maybe in terms of weeks to fill or change of year-over-year? Well I think just a real real simple arithmetic as we do it Jimmy says we will be gaining share in the longer-term categories of fiberglass and that would be both in outboard and inboard.
We've talked about this a lot we've been long time a company making boats over 50 feet and now we've got a great product lineup there and they'll just be beginning to get into the retail world and I think just -- we're going to good share gain here.
As we look at our Boston Whaler brand we've had a lot of nice larger product coming and we've got more in Fort Lauderdale Boat Show next week.
It will be a great showplace for some product there.
So I think again we'll continue to take share there.
We will in my judgment continue to take share in pontoons.
Maybe continue is a bad word.
We ought to be able to get more share for pontoons in 2015 than we've been able to get in 2014 as we ramped up our new plant.
And I think we have a lot more production capability through working with our suppliers et cetera than we had before.
So I think our guys are doing a good job on share.
The third quarter was a nice share quarter for us but we needed it.
The reason we needed it is because we haven't had enough new products coming.
So now it's all coming and we're going to see the benefit from it.
Research Division</strong> It's very helpful.
And just lastly on the engine side of Mercury.
When we're out talking to dealers we've been hearing that they're starting to see some real additional success with the repowering promotions.
Could you just maybe talk a little bit about how those margins compared to your engine sales to OEMs? And maybe what your market share is of the repower market versus your share with the OEMs? Repower has been a focus and the Mercury team is doing a great job at it.
Margins on repower would be comparable to margins throughout the business.
I won't pick just OEMs.
I'll just pick throughout the business.
As we look at Mercury our share opportunities are in repower saltwater commercial and in some international locations.
And the Mercury folks as they always do when they get focused on something they make things happen.
And they've begun to really get focused in those areas and I think we'll continue to see shares growing in all those areas.
The next question comes from Greg Badishkanian from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First is Canada and the U.S.
had colder and leaner winters and springs this year.
So I'm just wondering are those lost sales? Or do you think those -- some of that might be pent up for 2015? Well certainly they are lost today.
So any that we didn't get made up are gone.
And my judgment is as follows.
In the U.S.
it's played out almost exactly as we thought it would.
In our prepared comments we said on year-to-date the market is up about 4.5% on trailing 12 months.
It's up 4.7%.
And overall Greg that's generally right where we thought it would be.
So I don't know whether it's all been made up but it's right where we thought it would be.
Canada a different issue.
It was a longer colder weather and then when we throw on currency change there and the fact that it froze -- a bad word -- caused people to stop and think before they bought boats we clearly did not get that made up there.
So my hope is that's pent-up demand that we can uncork in '15.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And then generally speaking dealer inventory levels how would you -- how do you think that is looking right now? And not just your inventories but also your competitors this year maybe versus last year and just kind of how it's developed throughout the year? Good question.
I think the industry is doing a magnificent job of managing the inventory levels.
We're in the floorplanning business for our brands.
Just naturally as you do that you get to see what the competing dealers and even some in of our own dealers who aren't exclusive we get to see what levels are in those dealerships and they're being really well-managed and they're very healthy.
And people are doing a good job on a total basis of keeping retail and wholesale well in line.
It's just great.
The next question comes from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions sir here.
You talked a little bit in one of the previous responses about Mercury outlook here broadly inclusive of the OEM area.
Would you expect to also gain share in OEMs looking into '15? And again I know there has been some new competition with product moving into that OEM area.
Do you feel any major pressure from that at this point? I'll always feel pressure.
We've got great competitors in our engine business and that's what makes the whole engine segment in the entire marine business a really great segment.
Great competitors make for a great segment.
My judgment today is yes we will gain some share and that's going to be driven by the 75 90 115 getting into the marketplace Tim.
That is a horsepower category that's been growing and there's a lot of boats that use those type engines.
And I think our offering is significantly better than what we have had out there in the past and therefore I think we'll take a little share.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then just to maybe put this to rest here the boat production ramp-up issues.
Do you believe that those are largely behind now? And should we then therefore see and -- especially the larger boats here your wholesale pretty close to approximate retail given the basically just people waiting for you to deliver the boat? First -- and please don't be offended when I say this.
We haven't had a ramp-up issue.
Our...
LLC Research Division</strong> It's a good issue.
It's a good issue probably.
Yes.
It's a high class issue in that demand is exceeding our ability to make the boats right now and I think that's probably what you mean Tim.
And in round numbers in our Boat business we sell 35 000 boats and as we're looking up to the entire ramp-up and integration I think we'd miss just one boat in 2014 [indiscernible].
We'll take that all day.
I'm sorry Dusty you're cutting out there in your response there.
As we look across our Boat business as we talked about ramp-up and integration in round numbers we're going to sell 35 000 boats this year and I think we're going to miss 1 boat versus our plan.
That's not bad we'll take that all day.
Now the -- I think we'll end the year across our entire Boat business with wholesale and retail well in line and our goal next year will also if we run the business on that basis.
I think Jimmy had asked earlier and I -- Jimmy I apologize right now for not answering your question we've got a bunch of boats that are sold out as we go into the fourth quarter next year.
So we just got to sit there and make them and if demand were to continue to ramp up we have to make decisions about whether we can make more.
But right now we're sticking with our plan and our fellows men and women who work in our operations and building those things are doing a magnificent job under a lot of pressure with real hot boats.
So it's a high-class problem in that there we've got some consumers who are waiting a while.
But my judgment is there's nothing in the world wrong with a heavy product demand to be a little greater than our ability to make the product.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a question for Bill specifically just to -- can you quantify the expansion ramp-up cost that we're seeing here Bill in 2014? Tim I guess if you look at the leverage performance of the Boat group it's pretty much in line with where you'd expect the long term to be with some favorable mix benefits offsetting that.
I think if you can try to play those 2 off of each other you kind of get a feel for what the size -- what the market impact of one versus the other might be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think you alluded to that before but I just wanted to revisit that.
And then gentlemen as it relates to the share repurchase authorization and then folding that -- this into the high end that $3.50 $4 roughly of '16 if everything goes well you'll reach nirvana by '16.
The $200 million share repurchase authorization is that a fixed number meaning yes we're going to spend $200? Obviously that's what's authorized but is -- are you for sure going to spend that? Or is that more of a fungible bucket if you get some attractive acquisitions? And I guess then along that share repo are you looking at more steady level load type of approach? Or would you be more opportunistic if you had to play one end of that spectrum? I would say it's both Tim that we do want to kind of orchestrate this in a steady level load sort of plan but as we get additional opportunities presented to us we might call it inaudible.
But I think our plan Tim is to spend the money.
Yes.
Our plan is to spend the money.
LLC Research Division</strong> With the $200 million towards share repo? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at that play into the high-end opportunity cost here I think you said it before Acquisitions are your top priority.
But how much acquisitions pension share repo do you need to get to that high-end opportunistic end? Or is that just really a function of the Boat mix? Well it's the market.
Yes it's the market.
First let me come back.
Our first priority is not acquisitions.
Our first priority Tim and I understand.
Perhaps wasn't clear earlier is growth and it's both organic and acquisitive.
And we've got a lots of spending to do in organic growth and we've said we also want to have room to do acquisitive growth.
And then thirdly we also try to leave our sales room to do adjacency growth which can be either organic or acquisitive.
In terms of hitting the top end of this $3.50 to $4 that Tim is always going to be driven by the market -- in the size of the rain market.
And in order for us to get there it's got to be above the range that we're planning on which is -- the midpoint is probably 180 000 to 185 000 units.
For us to go to the larger it's going to need to be 190 000 195 000 units with the change in mix yes.
The next question comes from Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Regarding your comment on working with dealers to trim the pipeline Bill mentioned that activity was balanced in the quarter.
So does that mean promotions reserves things like that were not impacted either way on your results? That's correct.
Okay.
And Yamaha has announced a push in the freshwater on their outboard engines.
Should we anticipate a change in how you go to market there? Should we anticipate additional discounting? Or what's your outlook on the freshwater outboard market with that new push by Yamaha? Gerrick for every action there's an equal and opposite reaction.
So we say we're going to saltwater and Yamaha is going to be going to freshwater.
Absolutely.
And no I did not anticipate there will be any change in the way we go to market or additional discounting.
I think we're both going to be in the respective segments talking about product.
And then more importantly it's going to be the differentiation of service and the ability to take care of the dealer is going to be the primary driver here.
The next question comes from Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'll shift gears to Fitness just to give you an opportunity to talk about that.
I'm curious about how much...
[indiscernible] received.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you're all standing around the table or if you're sitting down.
Right now we're sitting but we've just finished the board meeting so we stood many of us the entire time.
Research Division</strong> So to that...
The speaker phone doesn't sound very good when we stand up.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
So maybe to that end I'd be interested in first about how much are you spending? Or did you spend in 2014 as part of these pilots? And two can you give us any color on how many pilots you have and how they are progressing as you work on that new opportunity? We're spending high single-digit millions and we'll be making a decision whether we -- how much we'll be doing in 2015.
Again our view is that we won't begin to see the impact of all this work until 2016 and so it will be a continuing drag in our Life Fitness results in terms of margins in 2015 but we're really committed to it.
I don't really want to get into the number of pilots but it's significant.
With all pilots we have the view that if every pilot is successful we failed because we've not stressed the business model.
We need pilots not to work as well as to be very successful.
As we measure one element of success all though across all pilots is where we go is the participation rate and the location that we go in and we judge that as most firms have a wellness program.
And then when we go and run our pilots then we look at what's the increased participation rate by employees with our offering versus the wellness program and it's fundamentally double.
So that's one statistic Craig keeps telling us we're really into something here and now we just got to get the dollars right.
And we have a question from Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
I wanted to go back to the incremental margins in the Boat business.
I think you said that there was integration cost production ramp-up which makes sense.
Then you said that I think the product between segments grew pretty well-balanced but you had a 15% ASP growth.
I just want to foot those 2 statements because it seems like that would suggest that you had a shift to the larger product.
And then secondly I wanted to confirm that Sea Ray does have -- or I should say all the bigger product but specifically Sea Ray should have the highest or among the highest incremental margins -- the Boat group because structurally where they're at and also given that they're closer to the bottom than the top versus the aluminum.
And then I have one follow-up question after that.
Joe I think it's the on a percentage basis a bigger product did grow faster than the rest of the portfolio.
But when you look at it on a dollar basis they both grew about the same.
So you saw some growth and ASP is not only increased because of the shift in mix but it also increased within each segment of the Boat business.
So you've got 2 factors at play there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then as far as the incremental margin to Sea Ray versus the rest of the Boat group are they -- am I correct in assuming that they're among the highest? Yes.
They are above-average but you've got to remember that at the heart that the sweet spot is that 31- to 40-foot segment.
Everything above 50 still has very attractive margin on a dollar basis but they start to trail off a bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then as we look at the -- into the fourth quarter I think you said you'd have a modest loss in boats but -- do we start to see those incremental margins improve in the fourth quarter and they get much better in '15? Is that the kind of way you're thinking about it? I mean will the ramp up and the integration cost be behind us by the time we get to the fourth quarter? Here's the -- let me give just a bit different perspective.
We are going to continue at the product introduction pace we have coming Joe have integration ramp-up activities that we got to manage for a pretty long time in this business.
So as an example and I'm not -- for people who follow the industry closely I'm not divulging any secret.
We're introducing a new 590 -- that's a 59-foot boat at the Fort Lauderdale Boat Show next week.
That boat has got to be integrated now into a production line that's doing amongst others the 51 and 65 and we've said that 65 which was again to integrate in say midyear late spring we won't be through real ramp-up until the end of this year.
That 59 we won't even start the integration on that until spring of this year and that's going to be something that we're going to have to manage.
As we look at other plants I can tell you there's not a plant in our Boat business where we don't have lots of new products coming to the market through our product plan as far out as we can see.
And as we've always said this requires that when we move it from engineering to production -- an example I'll always give is if you've ever built a house the builder can't build what the architect provides.
There's always a few things that aren't just perfect and that's a bit true in the Boat business and we have to get the supply chain ramped up with this.
We -- the employees have to work through the best way to build the product and teach themselves and all of that takes time and it's a bit inefficient.
But that's what it is.
So as we look at leverage on the Boat business going forward it's a little bit below the 20% right now and it will be between 20% and 25%.
And I think as you think about it for the future think for Boat business more low end of that range versus some of our other businesses.
At this time we would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Thank you ma'am and I apologize for the length of this call and it's the verbosity of me answering the questions.
So I thank all of you for your interest.
Thanks for the kind words that many of you gave us and we'll make sure that our people out there that are doing it understand that you recognize that they've done.
Thanks for everyone.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation 2014 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Also with us today is Mark Schwabero President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind you that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would also like to remind you that the figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
On July 17 2014 the company announced the signing of an agreement to sell its Retail Bowling business and its intention to sell its Bowling Products business.
On September 18 2014 the sale of the Retail Bowling business was completed.
As a result the historical and future results of these businesses are reported as discontinued operations and the historical and future results of the Billiards business which remains with the company are reflected in the company's Fitness segment.
Therefore for all periods in this presentation all figures and outlook statements incorporate these changes and reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start with an overview of our full year results.
Revenue in 2014 increased 7%.
We experienced growth in outboard boats and engines marine parts and accessories fitness equipment and fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats which was partially offset by a decline in sterndrive/inboard engines.
Our gross margin increased by 60 basis points compared to the prior year driven by volume leverage favorable warranty comparisons in new products partially offset by costs associated with production and new product ramp-ups.
Operating expenses increased by 4% as we continue to invest in numerous strategic initiatives at increasing levels.
2014 operating expense was approximately 17.6% of sales and that was in line with our guidance.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 21% versus last year.
Our net interest expense was reduced by $11.8 million.
Adjusted pretax earnings increased by 32% which is slightly above our guidance range.
Diluted EPS as adjusted of $2.42 reflected a $0.06 benefit from the recently extended U.S.
R&amp;D credit.
Extending -- I'm sorry excluding the benefit of the credit EPS as adjusted was $2.36 $0.01 above the high end of our guidance.
Our 2014 revenue performance benefited from recent investments in growth initiatives with several new products being introduced into the marketplace along with increases in production rates and capacity.
Sales growth also reflects parts and accessories acquisitions made during the year.
The Boat and Fitness segments reported top line improvements of 10% and 7% respectively.
Mercury sales were up 5%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 8%.
Sales to Europe increased by 14% due mostly to strong performance by our Marine segments as well as incremental revenues from acquisitions.
Rest of World sales declined by 1% versus the prior year period due to weakness in sales of both boats and engines mostly offset by gains in engine parts and accessories and Fitness.
In summary then consolidated sales outside the United States increased by 4% for the full year.
For the full year adjusted operating earnings were $360 million .6 -- I'm sorry $360.6 million an increase of $62.3 million compared to 2013.
Engine and Boat segments each contributed about $25 million to this increase.
Our operating margin excluding charges increased by 110 basis points to 9.4%.
Operating leverage for the full year was 26%.
As we stated in our November 2013 Investor Day we expected leverage to exceed our 3-year target of 20% to 25% in 2014.
The key contributor to our 2014 leverage was the benefit achieved from favorable warranty experience and related adjustments.
In 2014 adjusted pretax earnings increased by $82.1 million or 32%.
About 3/4 of the improvement was derived from the increase in operating earnings.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted for the full year equaled $2.42 per share.
This compares to net earnings as adjusted of $2.47 per share in the prior year.
If we apply a 32.5% tax rate to 2013 our 2014 EPS as adjusted would reflect a 30% growth rate.
All 3 of our segments reported strong top line growth in the fourth quarter.
Sales in our combined Marine segments increased by 15% while our Fitness segment increased by 8%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 18%.
Sales to Europe increased by 27% due to strong growth in all 3 segments.
Excluding the impact of the Whale acquisition sales to Europe increased by 22%.
Rest of World sales decreased by 2% versus the prior year period.
Canadian sales of our Marine businesses were the largest contributor to the quarterly decline.
In summary then combined sales outside the United States increased by 7%.
Adjusted operating earnings were $42.7 million for the quarter an increase of $28.8 million compared to 2013.
Operating margins excluding charges increased by 280 basis points to 4.5%.
The increase in our operating margin reflects the impact of strong sales growth.
Operating earnings includes the effect of an increase in operating expenses due to the funding of our numerous strategic initiatives.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted for the quarter equaled $0.33 per share reflecting a 26% increase.
Bill will provide more detail on the noncash charges that were made during the quarter related to pensions and in equity investments.
I'll now provide our perspective on the global marine market.
The U.S.
market in 2014 performed slightly better than our initial expectations.
Based on preliminary SSI data the U.S.
powerboat industry grew approximately 5% in 2014.
This follows a 3.5% gain in 2013.
As a result the U.S.
powerboat industry now approximates 166 000 units.
If we apply 2014's growth rate to 2015 and 2016 the U.S.
market will be above the high end of our Investor Day 2016 base case of 175 000 to 180 000 units.
Although the U.S.
marine market is slightly ahead of our base case assumptions due to weakness in various non-U.S.
markets 2014 global marine retail unit growth was slightly below the low end of our annual growth expectations of 3% to 5%.
Given our assumptions of a continuation of a sub-3% global GDP growth we anticipate 2015 U.S.
industry growth rates to be comparable with 2014.
Our plan reflects the Rest of World's markets being flat.
I'll now provide our view on marine markets outside the United States.
Although we are experiencing excellent top line growth in Europe due to factors that Bill will elaborate on a little later we believe the majority of the European marine marketplace remains very challenging.
We believe overall retail demand was about flat but this varies by country and region.
There appeared to be some modest recovery in Southern Europe from a very low base while Northern and Central Europe were flat to down slightly.
Eastern Europe particularly Russia was down significantly.
In 2015 we're planning for Europe to be flat with Eastern European markets remaining depressed.
We're closely watching ECB monetary policy elections currency and instability in Eastern Europe.
Turning to Canada.
An unusually cold and wet spring led to a late start to the boating season and currency variability caused some consumers to delay or defer purchases.
We believe retail demand in Canada was down mid- to high single digits in 2014.
In 2015 we're planning for that market to be flat reflecting normal weather patterns but continued currency disruption.
In South America weaker-than-expected economic conditions were the primary factor that caused lower market demand.
We believe this region was down mid- to high single digits with Brazil down more significantly.
In 2015 we're planning for these markets to be about flat with Brazil starting to stabilize.
Economic growth inflation and currency will be important drivers.
Finally in Asia Pacific we believe the market was flat to up slightly and are planning for low single digit growth in 2015.
In summary we're planning for markets of 2015 to be flat in most non-U.S.
markets.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill for a closer look at our segment results and our financials.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment where sales were up 10% in the quarter.
From a geographic perspective sales in the U.S.
were up 13% reflecting an increase in outboard engines and parts and accessories which was partially offset by the impact of lower sterndrive/inboard engine revenues.
For the full year U.S.
sales were up 5%.
Sales to Mercury's European customers increased by approximately 31% for the quarter as growth was experienced in all product categories.
Growth in parts and accessories benefited from the recent Whale acquisition and growth initiatives while stronger outboard performance included benefits from new products and improved conditions in certain countries.
For the full year sales to Europe were up 14%.
Rest of the world sales decreased by 1% as these regions benefited from gains in parts and accessories while engine revenues were down compared to the prior year.
For the full year sales to Rest of the world were also down 1%.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported solid overall sales growth in the fourth quarter of 2014 which included Mercury's new 75- 90- and 115-horsepower FourStrokes.
These new engines which are built with the same architecture as the popular 150-horsepower FourStroke have also been well received by OEMs and consumers.
Our outlook for the outboard engine business continues to reflect favorable retail demand in most markets and boat categories.
On the sterndrive side Mercury's award-winning and recently launched 4.5-liter 250-horsepower purpose-built engine is receiving very positive feedback from OEMs.
Sterndrive engine sales however continue to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
Diesel engine sales were up modestly during 2014.
Mercury's parts and accessories business delivered strong sales growth during the quarter with gains in most major markets.
Revenue benefited from recent acquisitions new product launches and market share gains.
The acquisitions of Whale and Bell Recreational Products Group accounted for approximately $30 [ph] million of the increase or 3 percentage points of Mercury's overall revenue growth rate in the quarter.
We again reported record sales in the fourth quarter of Land 'N' Sea and Attwood.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 75% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Operating margins were at 6.8% 250 basis points higher than the prior year quarter.
The improvement in operating earnings included the benefit from higher sales recently launched outboard products and favorable warranty experience.
For the full year the engine segment's operating margin was 14.1% an increase of 50 basis points versus the prior year.
Mercury's full year operating earnings exceeded $300 million for the first time in its 75-year history.
In our Boat segment fourth quarter revenues increased by 23%.
This included strong growth in sales of outboard boats as well as in fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats.
In the U.S.
which represented over 2/3 of the segment sales increased by 37%.
For the full year U.S.
sales were up 15%.
In the fourth quarter European sales increased by approximately $5 million or 31% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of new products including larger higher-priced outboard products by our European outboard boat brands.
For the full year European sales were up 32%.
We expect our European sales growth to moderate in 2015 anticipating a growth rate to be modestly above our market assumptions.
Rest of the world sales decreased by 5% in the quarter which reflected the weaker demand in Canada and South America referred to by Dusty earlier in the call.
For 2014 Rest of the world sales decreased by 7%.
In the fourth quarter Brunswick's global retail unit sales increased by 14% compared to prior year.
Global wholesale unit shipments increased by 6%.
This compares to the Boat group dollar sales increase of 23% as the segment also benefited from higher average selling prices resulting from a favorable shift in mix across most of its boat lines.
For the full year global retail unit sales increased by 2% compared to the prior year while global wholesale unit shipments were up 1%.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the year with 35 weeks of boats-on-hand measured on a trailing 12-month retail basis which is comparable to the prior year level.
Pipelines for aluminum and fiberglass outboard products are up compared to last year due to an expanded distribution network new product introductions and weaker-than-expected retail demand in Canada.
Fiberglass sterndrive/inboard pipelines are down versus the prior year.
Our current pipeline levels are appropriate given our growth expectations in the various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with these overall levels.
The Boat segment's fourth quarter adjusted operating earnings improved by $12.2 million or 76% when compared to the prior year.
This improvement resulted from higher sales including several new product introductions.
Operating performance in the quarter did include increase in costs associated with new product integrations capacity expansions and production ramp-up.
The segment's year-over-year earnings improvement also reflected the absence of costs related to pipeline reduction of large fiberglass boats completed in Q4 of 2013.
For the full year the segment's operating margin excluding charges was 1.6% a 220 basis point improvement versus 2013.
Sales at Life Fitness increased by 8% for the quarter resulting from growth in the U.S.
to health clubs hospitality education and local and federal government customers as well as modest sales growth in international markets particularly Europe.
For the full year U.S.
sales were up 9% while European and Rest of the world sales were up 4% and 7% respectively.
The segment continued to benefit from new product introductions in all regions with this quarter representing its ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter increased 11% as the impact from higher sales was partially offset by the continued increases in growth initiative investments.
For the year the segment's operating margin finished at 15% which is comparable to last year's margin.
Moving now to foreign exchange.
In the fourth quarter foreign currency had a higher-than-expected unfavorable impact on changes in total consolidated sales of slightly under 2% and operating earnings of approximately $3 million.
For the full year 2014 versus 2013 comparison exchange rates had a minimal impact on overall sales and operating earnings.
We are however expecting a more significant impact on our sales and earnings in 2015.
On the revenue side just over approximately 20% of our consolidated sales is transacted in a currency other than the dollar.
The unfavorable translation impact on these sales caused by changes in exchange rates is estimated to be approximately 2.5% of consolidated sales.
Changes in currency will also lower operating earnings by approximately 7% or $25 million.
This amount considers the impact of currency translation on both sales and costs transacted in a currency other than the dollar as well as the impact of hedges.
The sales and operating earnings impacts reflect exchange rates in line with current levels and reflects significant changes in the last couple of months.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 our GAAP earnings also reflected 2 noncash charges totaling approximately $48 million.
In the fourth quarter we reported a $27.9 million charge pertaining to lump sum settlement payments made to certain pension plan participants.
This item was one we discussed on previous calls but had not quantified.
We are planning a second lump sum payout in 2015 and would expect a comparable charge in Q4 which would not be included in our as adjusted EPS reported earnings.
The second item is a nonrecurring impairment charge of $20.2 million pertaining to an impairment of our minority investment in a European-based boat business reflecting the continued performance challenges faced by that business.
Moving on to our tax provision.
Our effective book tax rate as adjusted was 22.3% and 32.5% for the quarter and full year respectively.
Our effective book tax rate for 2014 now includes the benefit from the extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit which lowered the rate by approximately 1.5% for the full year.
Our 2015 guidance however does not assume that this credit will extend into 2015.
Therefore our as adjusted effective tax rate for '15 is 34%.
Our estimated effective cash tax rate for 2015 reflects a mid-teen percent level.
Turning to a review of our full year cash flow statements.
Cash provided by continuing operation activities was $235.3 million an increase of $67.3 million versus the prior year.
Net increases in our primary working capital accounts totaled $67 million.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions the biggest changes occurred in inventory which increased by $57 million; accounts and notes receivable which increased by $24 million; accounts payable increased by $13 million; and accrued expenses increased by $6 million.
Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation activity adversely affected our cash from operations in '13 by about $37 million and $8 million in 2014.
This item resulted primarily from stock options exercised in both periods and is derived from the difference between the expense recorded for book purposes and the expense reflected in the company's tax return.
GAAP requires that these excess tax benefits be reclassified into financing activities and not included in operating cash flow.
Normally these benefits would lower taxes paid and the reclassification would have no impact on free cash flow.
However because of the company's tax position these excess tax benefits did not materially benefit our taxes paid in either period.
Consequently this activity had a negative impact on free cash flow in both 2013 and 2014.
Regarding our pension.
We ended 2014 with an unfunded obligation of $310 million representing a $55 million increase from prior year levels.
The main drivers for this increase are the adoption of new mortality tables reflecting longer life expectancies and lower discount rates which more than offset contributions and favorable investment experience.
For 2015 our plan reflects $70 million to $75 million of cash contributions which includes an estimated amount that will be used to fund the second part of our lump sum buyouts.
A significant portion of full year contributions will be funded in the first quarter to maximize return and plan expense benefits.
Although our unfunded obligation increased our pension expense in 2015 is expected to be lower by $2 million due primarily to actions taken to fund and de-risk our pension plan.
Full year capital spending was in line with the prior year at approximately $125 million which included investments in new products in our Marine and Fitness businesses as well as capacity expansion projects.
Total year-to-date free cash flow amounted to $116 million which is twice the amount reported in the prior year.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments in growth and enhanced shareholder returns.
At year-end cash and marketable securities totaled $636 million.
The increase of $267 million from year-end 2013 reflects the net proceeds received from the sale of the Retail Bowling business and free cash flow from continuing operations partially offset by $42 million of spending for both acquisitions and dividends along with share repurchases of approximately $20 million.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2015.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $90 million.
We expect our 2015 pension expense to be approximately $13 million and interest expense is expected to be about $26 million.
Combined equity earnings and other income are anticipated to be comparable to the prior year and we expect our diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 94 million to 95 million.
The reduction in average shares outstanding reflects the execution against our $200 million share repurchase program partially offset by stock compensation plan activity.
We expect to systematically complete this share repurchase program over approximately a 2-year period.
On the cash flow side the company plans to make cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans of approximately $70 million to $75 million in 2015 as described earlier.
Our current plan anticipates working capital changes to result in a modest usage of cash of $30 million to $50 million and capital expenditures of approximately 4% of sales with a substantial portion directed at growth and profit-enhancing projects including meeting capacity expansion requirements in each of our segments.
Despite higher investment spending rules and a modest usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in a range of $150 million to $170 million.
I'll now turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thank you Bill.
Our operating plans and assumptions for 2015 remain fairly consistent with those we communicated at our 2013 Investor Day Meeting.
We continue to target 2015 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects approximately 6% to 8% sales growth which includes benefit from the successes of our new products and the continuation of the growth demonstrated in the U.S.
in 2014 partially offset by weaknesses in certain international markets as well as the unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Our guidance does not include any additional acquisitions made in 2015.
We anticipate a slight improvement in gross margins which assumes an absence of favorable warranty adjustments achieved in 2014 and our ongoing focus on managing cost of goods through initiatives such as Lean Six Sigma and supply chain and manufacturing efficiencies.
As a result of ongoing growth investments full year operating expenses will increase but as a percentage of sales are expected to be lower than 2014 levels approximately 17% to 17.2%.
As a result our pretax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong growth of 15% to 20%.
Our 2015 EPS as adjusted is projected to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.85.
An early look at 2015 first half indicates continued strong top line growth forecasted in the high single to low double digit range.
While we're planning for improvements in operating margins for the full year first half operating margins will be flat to down compared to the same period in 2014.
This reflects foreign exchange headwinds the absence of 2014 favorable warranty adjustments and continued increases in investments to support our strategic objectives where the growth rate of these investments is heavily weighted to the first half of 2015.
In addition to these items our product success has introduced additional cost and efficiencies in the first half as we open and expand plant capacity to meet demand continue to introduce a significant number of new products into production in each of our segments and ramp up production as our sales continue to experience significant growth.
These costs and inefficiencies will abate in the second half and our second half operating margins will improve significantly.
We remain committed to deploying our resources to address the headwinds through additional manufacturing initiatives using Lean Six Sigma and commodity cost opportunities.
The 2015 financial targets for our operating segments also remain fairly consistent with our 3-year plan.
Our overall plan reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine segment.
Specifically we are planning for revenue growth in the mid-single digit range with a modest improvement in operating margins despite currency headwinds and the continued negative impact from operating leverage from acquisitions.
We will continue to make significant investments in Mercury.
Looking at our Boat segment.
Our plan assumes that we continue to successfully execute our large fiberglass boat strategy which is a key part in the increasing number of new products that will be shipped into the market.
Our plan also reflects solid growth in outboard boats under 28 feet throughout the year and therefore influences our overall average sales price.
As a result increases in average sales prices will be at lower rates of growth versus 2014.
We are targeting 2015 annual revenue growth in the low double digit range with year-over-year improvement in the segment's operating margin comparable to 2014.
In our Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
In 2015 we continue to target revenue growth in mid-single to high single digit range.
We'll continue to make significant investments in Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation to achieve competitive differentiation in its products and services which should continue to enable market share growth and create business opportunities beyond its core business model.
And although Life Fitness' margins could decline slightly in 2015 as a result of these investments our plan continues to reflect very healthy margins in this business.
Our capital strategy for 2015 remains consistent with what we described to you in our last call.
Over the next 2 years we plan to maintain strong cash and liquidity positions deploy capital to strengthen our Marine and Fitness segments.
We will do this both organically by continued investment through capital expenditures R&amp;D and SG&amp;A.
This commitment is important foundation in our effort to drive an aggressive pace of new product introduction which is imperative in our overall goal to grow revenue and market share.
We will also be actively pursuing acquisition opportunities with an initial focus on Mercury's parts and accessories businesses.
We will continue to grow our Fitness business by expanding into new product categories and growing distribution in customer segments and regions we serve throughout the world.
In addition we're currently exploring and evaluating [ph] certain adjacency opportunities in both the Fitness equipment and health and wellness sectors as well as evaluating acquisitions.
Finally we plan to execute our pension de-risking plans as well as return cash to shareholders through a balanced approach that includes dividends and share repurchases.
Thank you and now we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from James Hardiman.
Research Division</strong> So Dusty a few months back as you gave preliminary thoughts on 2015 it seemed like you thought it was going to be more in the 5% to 7% range from a top line perspective.
It's 6% to 8% now.
And I guess as you layer on currency you're looking at more like 8.5% to 10.5% sort of x currency revenue growth.
I guess the question is -- well I guess the statement is it sounds like you've gotten a little bit more bullish.
I guess the question is why? Obviously we've seen some good industry numbers to finish the year.
Is that what's driving sort of the better outlook? Or is it more internally some of the progress that some of your particular products have made over the last few months here? James it's more internally and the success of our products and our ability to take some share and continue in our view in certain of our segments to really be a market leader.
Our view for the -- in 2015 for the U.S.
market which is the strongest market obviously around the world is about the same as the growth we've seen in the market in 2014.
So our -- if you will more upbeat mood is around our ability to continue to put new product into the marketplace and be a success.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And along those lines I mean obviously you've taken a little bit of time for supply to catch up with demand.
It doesn't seem like we're there yet certainly with the high-end Sea Ray offering.
I guess what gives you confidence -- or do you believe at all that the demand is actually waiting for that product to be available rather than going elsewhere to a competitor? Well we're sold out as we keep saying in certain of these new products the larger products 65 as an example for about a year.
So I can't honestly tell you that there aren't other buyers who would like the product who said "I'm going to wait that long" and go somewhere else.
But that's the part of our increasing capacity.
We've announced for instance at Sea Ray that we're opening the Sykes Creek plant.
This lets us really begin to do 2 things: increase the output of our L-Class models; but as importantly from an earnings perspective begin to remove inefficiencies and cost from the system that we're incurring through the enormous demand we have and trying to get it through the existing footprint.
We're also doing this and I think it's important for us to talk about in all of our other businesses.
We've announced and you may have seen I guess it's been 2 3 weeks ago we opened a significant capacity expansion at Boston Whaler.
We need to do that for both big product but also for demand for existing product.
We're undertaking a significant expansion of our manufacturing location in -- at Life Fitness in Hungary.
We've had to pick up line rates in all of our lines in Life Fitness for all the new product we've been bring to the market.
And in fact that's another place we're playing hard to the market.
And that's a part of -- and I can keep going.
It's true in all our businesses including Mercury and our aluminum boat businesses et cetera.
So what we're doing is as we're working hard to meet demand we are going through inefficiencies and having additional cost as we expand capacity bring new product in line and open new plants.
And that's to be expected.
So I laughingly say around here we call this a problem and it's a bit of a drain on first half margins.
But it's a real high-class problem and one we're happy to have and one that will get taken care of in the first half.
And we'll see a significant improvement in margins as we go through the second half.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last question for me on the ASP front.
The number was 17% in the fourth quarter.
I think it was 15% in 3Q.
I guess firstly do you have a number for what that was for the full year? And then how do we think that trends? I mean you basically said that it's going to be less of a benefit in '15 and than was in '14.
I guess that's not a huge surprise.
But how should we think about the magnitude of ASPs in '15 and the cadence of that? I'm assuming first half is much better than the second half.
For the -- we think that the cadence will be about half in 2015 versus 2014.
Research Division</strong> And what was the 2014 number? It was in the range of 10%.
Maybe -- we may not be quite half.
It's going to be slightly below half James.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Maybe -- it was 10% in '14 so we're thinking about 4% or 5% in '15.
Is that what -- how we should think about that? Yes [indiscernible].
And it's a little bit more heavily weighted to the first quarter but not significantly.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor.
I guess I want to by asking about the Engines business and you put up a 14.1% margin for 2014 so you're kind of at the lower end of the target range you had established for 2016 which was the 14% to 15%.
I realize you're making a lot of investments and there's a lot of moving parts in there right now.
But I guess I'm wondering if beyond the 2015 -- so I guess I'm asking the question more on a longer-term basis.
But do you foresee a point where the margins get substantially better than that based on the returns on all these investments? Or do you kind of hold it at that level and just accelerate the level of reinvestment back into the business? It'll be the latter.
Okay.
And let me ask you a second question just on the parts and accessories business.
I guess you've got a strong dollar right now.
Can you just talk about the extent to which that may accelerate acquisition opportunities for you or acquisition plans? We don't -- let's talk about the dollar in general.
The dollar is something that's outside our control.
We've got our sleeves rolled up trying to do everything that's within our control.
We know the acquisitions we're working on we know the people we're in discussions with obviously.
And if some great deal what happened to pop in here we might jump on it.
But right now we're just pursuing our strategy and working with the people that we've got in our queue.
So how should we think about longer-term organic growth in the parts and accessories business then setting aside acquisitions? Think of it -- it's sort of mid-single digits.
Okay.
Last question is just with respect to the Fitness business.
Let me ask you a question there.
What's achievable in 2015 in terms of incremental revenue and profit from the products that you launched mid-'14? On revenue? Yes.
Or -- and the margin line as well if you can address that.
Well let's go ahead to margin.
My judgment is the margins for Fitness could be a bit below in '15 what they were in '14 because we're continuing to make significant investments in that business not only around product related to the Fitness category where we play really well.
We're having to make significant investments in capacity in people in order to continue to grow the business at the rate we're growing it.
We're continuing to invest in adjacencies some of which we've talked about.
And we're doing big plant expansions -- or a big plant expansion over in Hungary.
So we've got -- this is a year of very heavy investment.
And I just don't think we can expect that business to improve operating margins in light of all that.
Our next question is from Mike Swartz.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You gave a lot of color on your kind of expectations of the marine market by geography.
And maybe I missed it but could you maybe lay out your thoughts around sterndrive versus outboard for the year ahead? There'll be more growth in outboard than sterndrive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But do you expect sterndrive as an industry to grow in 2015? No.
I think -- don't think it will.
I'd be happy if it was flat.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the -- just maybe on your input cost basket as well.
I mean that's something that's been a hot topic lately particularly with the pullback in crude.
How should we think about that playing out? I know that there's more to your cost basket than just resins and oil-related inputs.
But from a very high level when -- if or when should we start seeing benefits of that? Complicated answer to what's a simple question.
Crude plastics all that derived from that are a little less than 3% of our input cost.
So that's where we start.
We have a very complicated for a company our size supply chain that's very global.
And as we work our way through how -- the complexity of our supply chain my judgment is we will have without additional work that we're going to be undertaking a net positive from commodity costs but it will not be significant.
It will be under I don't know pick a number 10 basis points to 20 basis points something like that.
Another thing everybody has to understand that when you read a lot about it and it's one of those pains you've got to deal with when you run a business like ours is all that's happening out on the West Coast is causing real inefficiency for those of us who source and build in Asia.
Our next question is from Tim Conder.
LLC Research Division</strong> And a few things here though.
With Sykes Creek ramping and the investments you're making especially there in the larger boats do you anticipate at this point getting close to approximating -- meeting demand on those types of products by year-end '15? Or will that really stretch more into '16 at this point? Tim the booger in that is what is meeting demand? We're never going to be able to have somebody walk up and say "I'd like to buy 65 " and us hand him one.
So from my perspective we want a nice backlog on these L-Class and even sport yacht product.
And our goal is to reduce the length of the backlog some but we're always going to have a backlog as long as we have a hot product.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well let me rephrase that then.
Do you anticipate getting to the desired level of wait time backlog by year-end '15? Or will that really stretch into '16 as you ramp that up? I think realistically it's going to go into '16.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay okay.
I apologize for not phrasing that correctly.
No it's okay.
That's okay.
It's a fair question.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Bill regarding the FX could you give us any color on your hedges and maybe your net exposure? And it sounds like again with the Hungary expansion you're going to -- you're building a little bit more natural hedge there as you progress through '15.
But your exposure on a net basis and the percent of that that you're hedged and maybe at what levels? Yes Tim.
I -- we have provided in the materials kind of our view of -- or what our exposure is on the sales side which is about 20% of overall sales.
Cut that in half is what our kind of net risk is after you layer in manufacturing costs and operating costs in those local markets.
And then our hedges are about 50% of that number.
And our hedge policy is very much 50% of a forward 12-month sort of activity.
And every quarter we layer in new hedges to keep 50% hedged of the next 12 months.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess maybe another way to ask the question is your main currency exposures.
Any type of sensitivity that you can give with the hedges -- the hedging policy that you have? Or maybe...
I think the best way to look at it is to look at our mix of international sales and the risks match up pretty well against the mix of international sales.
So if Europe is 34% of the -- if Europe is 34% of our international sales it ends up -- the risk ends up to European-based currencies right in that ballpark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And last question on your incremental margins here.
As you had already indicated you expect -- it appears that '15 is going to be a little bit lower due to the investments you're making and for good reasons obviously.
But then should we see that reaccelerate in '16 given that we should be past several of these investment humps here with Sykes Creek with Life Fitness and so forth? Probably not Tim.
We've got a bunch of more investments we're not talking about yet that we want to make '16 and beyond.
And I think when we get to our Investor Day late this year we'll need to lay out for the next 3-year period all the investments that we intend to make.
We've got significant growth plans here in the company and we know we need to continue to invest in order to drive it.
We also have an obligation to our shareholders to keep growing EPS and cash flow.
So it's a -- we got our sleeves rolled up and we're really confident we're going to be able to get it done.
But we'll need to start sharing more of that later this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So kind of keeping in that 20% to 25% would be a reasonable kind of thinking? Yes Tim.
Yes it would.
Our next question is from Greg Badishkanian.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just in terms of inventory levels overall for the industry and your competition what you're seeing there if there's any overhang.
And just with the weaker other currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar just any changes in the competitive environment that you think you might see or maybe you're not seeing it right now.
Inventories in my judgment industry-wide are in excellent shape.
And we get to see through our joint venture at least through all of our dealer network what the dealer inventories look like.
They're really in great shape.
And the industry continues to do a great job in managing that.
In terms of competitive impact hard to say right now.
But I will say this we're blessed with some really great competitors.
They make us better.
As we watch them most of them are very focused on margin and earnings.
And this would be a good time for them to continue to do that with the currencies in the state they're in.
We have a question from Jimmy Baker.
Research Division</strong> So just given the tailwind to boat usage can you just talk about the sensitivity of Mercury's P&amp;A business to lower fuel prices and how should we be thinking about that tailwind relative to let say other growth drivers like share gains and SKU expansion? Well we've always said that we've not been able to closely correlate lower fuel prices to Boat sales.
We think that's more driven by the fuel prices having an impact on the overall economy.
If that improves then we get increased boat sales.
On the other hand we do see increased usage with low fuel prices and that drives increases in our P&amp;A business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dusty you -- well I don't want to say you but your former Boat group president I think previously indicated you could handle a yacht market 2.5x 2012 levels out of that Palm Coast facility.
But then fast forward to today it's a little changed from those levels and you're reactivating Sykes Creek.
Can you just kind of explain if share gains drove the delta there? Or I guess if I could ask it more directly how would you characterize the current throughput and cost performance of Palm Coast relative to your expectations when you decided to shutter Sykes Creek? Throughput is generally on our expectations.
Cost is a fair bit above our expectations.
And I think what we didn't take into account well enough Jimmy was the model mix that we began to put through that facility and the complexity that it brought.
And as a result we have a real need for Sykes Creek.
And I think if we're also honest with ourselves we didn't quite anticipate the demand being at the level as it is.
So it's a great problem to have but it's something we've got to deal with here in the first half.
And that's why we signaled -- going to have an impact on margins on the first half but we'll see great margin improvement in the second half business operating margins.
I wanted to say something for our Palm Coast employees.
They have been super men and women.
The amount of overtime they're putting in for us in a really difficult time they're working through just because we've got great boats is incredibly appreciated by guys like me who get to sit in office every day.
They're really working hard down there.
Our next question is from Rommel Dionisio.
Research Division</strong> Dusty I noticed in your comments that you talk about potential acquisitions in -- with regards to Fitness and Engines.
With the variety of different competitors in the Boat segment having been bought out by private equity years ago.
I would think there might be some brands up for sale.
Is there a particular reason why you didn't include that in the mix? Or do you maybe just find that internally developing new designs whether it be the L-series for the Sea Ray or Boston Whaler 420 is the way to go here with your Boat business going forward? We're really happy with our Boat portfolio and our ability to grow it and our ability to handle new products new product introductions et cetera.
And we see as we look at in the Engine segment and the Fitness segment as we talk about acquisitions acquisitions that bring significantly more synergies and real ability to grow later.
And that's why we're focused there.
It's not that the Boat business is not a good place.
We just think that synergistic opportunities and growth opportunities around acquisitions around Engines and Fitness is significantly higher.
We have a question from Joseph Spak.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Ritapa Ray filling in for Joseph Spak.
Just a quick question on capacity and other segments.
Can you just remind us of what it is and more pontoon aluminum segments and also progress there in Brunswick's more penetrated areas? And a follow-up question would be just a housekeeping one which is can you remind us [indiscernible] warranty adjustments experienced in 2014? Bill do you want to do the last one? Yes I'll do the warranty adjustments.
It's in the neighborhood of about 20 to 30 basis points of favorability year-over-year.
When we talk about capacity we completed the significant expansion around pontoons a year before last.
Last year around our northern aluminum fish boats which have been Crestliner and Lund product.
We just opened a capacity expansion at Boston Whaler and we're in the process of expanding capacity for large boats with Sea Ray.
We are in the midst at Mercury of a 3-year capacity expansion plan.
And we said we would be spending $20 million to $25 million thereabout a year in capacity expansion and that process continues to go on and it will not be completed until next year.
At Fitness where we've said we're expanding capacity in our Hungary facility.
And we're also trying to get the effect of capacity expansion through putting new better equipment in many of our Fitness facilities changing layouts et cetera as a way to get more capacity.
So as we look around the company again it's a great problem to have.
And it's a problem we get paid to deal with.
It's that we introduced so much great product we just need to be making more of it and we got our sleeves rolled up to do it.
If I can just add on the warranty question.
The impact I gave was '14 versus '13.
It's slightly more than that going into '15.
So the $20 million to $30 million slightly higher than that '15 versus '14.
At this time we would like to turn the call back to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
We took a lot of your time today and I know many of you who are on the sell side had a very very busy day and we were just in line with others.
So thanks for taking the time to be on the call with us.
We'll be seeing many of you at boat shows and investor events that start coming at us hot and heavy following this.
And as always we appreciate your questions and interest.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation 2015 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; Mark Schwabero President and Chief Operating Officer and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we're using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would also like to remind you that the figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thanks Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
Our goal in 2015 is to continue to enhance and expand the growth we've been demonstrating now for several quarters.
And as we finish the first quarter and are working our way through the second quarter we're bullish about this goal.
Our key end markets continue to be resilient and U.S.
market provides us with a solid platform from which to continue the growth of our businesses.
Our recently launched new engines boats and fitness equipment are beginning to generate market share gains around the world.
Mark and I'll provide insights into how our current product line outpace enabling us to generate above market growth rates.
As the year is unfolding the challenges of the increasingly volatile global economic landscape the intensifying headwinds of foreign currency present risk.
But they also offer opportunities for Brunswick to leverage our fundamental advantages in the market.
Great people technology innovations leading brand positions product quality and the unrivaled breadth and strength of our distribution networks.
So while we manage these risks we're focused on taking advantage of the opportunities we've created and are increasingly confident we will achieve the 2015 growth goals embedded in our guidance for the year pre-tax earnings growth of 15% to 20%.
Let's now talk about the first quarter results.
To more accurately reflect the operating and market fundamentals of our operating segments we will present net sales on a constant currency basis excluding currency changes.
Reported revenue in the quarter increased 10%.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased by 14%.
This is in line with our first half sales growth guidance of high single to low double-digit percent.
We experience growth in all the major product categories.
The highest growth rates were reported by marine parts and accessories and fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats.
As expected our gross margins decreased by 90 basis points compared to the prior year and operating expenses increased by 5%.
Operating expenses were 17.3% of sales.
Operating earnings increased by 8% versus prior year.
Again as expected operating margins were down 20 basis points to 9%.
Continuing down the P&amp;L pre-tax earnings increased by 13%.
And finally diluted EPS was $0.59 reflecting a $0.07 increase over the prior year.
As we detailed on our January call although our full year plan reflects improvements in operating margins first half operating margins are expected to be flat to slightly down compared to the same period in 2014 but the key drivers being foreign exchange headwinds the absence of 2014 favorable warranty adjustments and continued increases in investments to support our strategic objectives for the growth rate of these investments is heavily weighted to the first half of 2015.
In addition to these items our new product launch successes are introducing additional costs and inefficiencies in the first half as we open and expand plant capacity to meet demand continue to introduce a significant number of new products into production in each of our segments and ramp up production as our sales continue to experience significant growth.
The strong sales performance represents the third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth rates reflecting solid market demand and contributions from recent investments in new product launches throughout our organization.
On a constant currency basis sales in our Marine segment increased by 16% while our Fitness segment increased by 6%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 17%.
On a constant currency basis sales to Europe increased by 16% rest of world sales increased by 4%.
So in summary combined sales outside the United States increased by 9%.
Operating earnings were $88.7 billion for the quarter an increase of $6.8 million compared to 2014.
Operating margins decreased by 20 basis points to 9% due to the factors I described earlier.
Pre-tax earnings increased by $9.8 million or 13% as we also benefit from lower net interest expense and higher other income.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations for the quarter equaled $0.59 per share reflecting a $0.07 increase.
Now I want to take just a couple of minutes and provide our perspective on the global marine market.
First a quick update on how the U.S.
market performed in 2014.
The U.S.
powerboat industry grew to approximately 167 000 units or about 5.5% in 2014.
In the first quarter of 2015 the U.S.
powerboat segment with preliminary numbers grew approximately 7% as once again outboard boats led the way.
March which comprises about 9% to 10% of the year retail on average demonstrated comparable growth rates.
We need to keep in mind that in the first quarter of 2014 the U.S.
experienced fairly widespread adverse weather conditions.
Given our assumption of a continuation of sub-3% annual GDP growth rate we anticipate the 2015 U.S.
industry growth rates to be comparable with 2014 rates.
Let's now look at marine markets outside the United States and we'll start with Europe.
Overall unit retail demand for boats and engines improved in the first quarter compared to a year ago.
Scandinavia and Southern Europe were particularly strong while Eastern Europe was weak.
The retail market in Russia has dropped significantly more than 50% due to slowing economic conditions and the weakening of the ruble.
ECB monetary actions in our view should continue to help retail market demand in Europe.
And because most Brunswick marine product in Europe is priced at local currency the strengthening of U.S.
dollar hasn't affected retail demand.
However the negative effects of translation are lowering margins on product not manufactured in the region.
For the full year we're planning for overall demand in Europe to be flat to slightly up.
In Canada first quarter retail was down sharply reflecting weakness in March.
We anticipate the retail boat market in the second quarter and third quarter will likely remain difficult and down versus a year ago as consumers react to the price impact of the strong dollar level which is making product more expensive in Canadian dollars.
Overall we believe the Canadian market will be down for the full year.
In South America especially Brazil retail boat demand is down over 20% over the last six months compared with same period a year earlier.
The weakening real has severely limited demand for boats being imported into Brazil from the U.S.
or Europe.
As a result our boats manufacturing in Brazil have picked up market share due to our local manufacturing presence.
But we're still challenged for sales due to an overall weak retail boat market and declines in sales of boats that we imported in the region.
For the full year we're planning for the overall South American market to be down.
Finally as we look at the Asia Pacific first quarter retail markets in the region were flat to slightly down with last year.
Our plan reflects a flat to slightly down market for 2015.
So if we summarize all that for the regions I've just been describing global market demand for the year is expected to increase in the 3% to 5% range which is consistent with the assumption used in our multi-year plan.
During the first quarter markets performed more towards the higher end of that range.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Mark for a closer look at our segment results.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment.
Our first quarter sales on a constant currency basis increased by 16%.
Overall acquisitions contributed 4% to the segment's year-over-year growth.
From a geographic perspective sales in the U.S.
were up 19% reflecting an increase in all major product categories.
Excluding 2014 acquisitions the U.S.
sales increased approximately 14%.
Sales to Mercury's European customers excluding currency changes increased by 21% which included a 9% benefit from an acquisition completed in 2014.
Excluding Russia revenues were up in all categories.
Rest of world sales on a constant currency basis increased by 5% as these regions benefited from gains in outboard engines as well as parts and accessories and this growth was partially offset by lower sterndrive/inboard sales.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported solid overall sales growth in the quarter which included benefits from Mercury's 75-horsepower 90-horsepower and 115-horsepower four strokes which were introduced in 2014 as well as the new 350-horsepower and 400-horsepower Verado engines launched in Q1 of 2015 which fortifies our position in targeted growth segments.
These new engines have been well received by the OEMs and by consumers particularly in larger offshore boats and have led to market share increases within these horsepower categories including gains in the targeted saltwater and repower markets.
Our outlook for the U.S.
outboard engine business continues to reflect favorable retail demand.
Europe and rest of world markets all demonstrated year-over-year growth with the exception of the high volume small horsepower engine market in Russia due to the weak retail demand mentioned earlier.
On the sterndrive side Mercury's award-winning and recently launched 4.5 liter 250-horsepower purpose-built engine is receiving very positive feedback from OEMs and consumers as well.
Sterndrive engine sales continued to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
However the category did experience modest growth.
Diesel engine unit sales were up modestly during the first quarter.
Mercury's parts and accessory businesses excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions delivered strong sales growth during the quarter with gains in most major markets.
Revenue benefited from new product launches and market share gains.
This includes product successes such as Attwood's portable and integrated fuel systems as well as their new LED and underwater lighting system products Whale's new and award-winning range of intelligent pump control system MotorGuide's new trolling motors the Joystick Piloting System for outboard engines a refreshed helm suite with new controls and features the award-winning ECO Enertia Prop and Quicksilver a leader in lubricants for not only marine but for motorcycles ATVs and snowmobiles.
In addition the continued sales records achieved by our distribution business portfolio which includes Land 'N' Sea Kellogg Marine Diversified Marine Products and the recently acquired Bell Recreational Product businesses demonstrate their ability to deliver on superior product availability on-time delivery and the product category expansion.
In addition favorable weather conditions combined with lower fuel costs have provided some improved market conditions in the United States.
Lastly earlier this week we announced the completion of our third P&amp;A acquisition.
We acquired BLA Australia's largest provider of marine products strengthening our presence in that region.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 20% compared to last year's first quarter.
Operating margins were at 13.2% 100 basis points higher than the prior year quarter.
The improvement in operating earnings reflected the higher sales including a favorable product mix benefit from parts and accessory growth and our recently launched outboard products.
Partially offsetting these positive factors were the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange and increased investments for a long-term growth.
Turning to our Boat segment our first quarter revenues on a constant currency basis increased by 15% with strong growth in the fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats and solid gains in outboard boats.
Our Boat brands made progress during the quarter in gaining share.
This occurred not only in the U.S.
market but also in key regions including Europe Brazil and Canada.
Our share gains reflect the advancements made by our various product development teams both in terms of shortening the average age of our boat models as well as bringing fresh new concepts into the marketplace.
This has been demonstrated across our brands and categories including such things as Boston Whaler's Dauntless Family of boats and the 320 Vantage Sea Ray's 19-foot SPX MBL (17:22) Series Yachts Lund 1750 Rebel XS and the Harris dual console Pontoon.
In the U.S.
which represents over two-thirds of the segment sales increased 21%.
In the quarter European sales on a constant currency basis increased by 21% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of new products including larger higher priced products by our European manufactured outboard boat brands.
Rest of world sales on a constant currency basis decreased by 3% which reflected the weaker demand in Canada which was down 12% on a constant currency basis due to the conditions described by Dusty earlier in the call.
In the first quarter Brunswick's global retail unit sales increased by 12% compared to the prior year reflecting more favorable U.S.
weather conditions as well as the market share gains.
Global wholesale unit shipments increased by 4% and this compares to the Boat group dollar sales increase of 12% as this segment also benefited from higher average selling prices due to a favorable shift in mix across most of our boat lines.
For the remainder of the year and particularly in the second half wholesale unit growth will be a bigger contributor to sales increases than the average sales price growth.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter with 40 weeks of boats on hand measured on a trailing 12-month retail basis which is comparable to the prior year level.
Specifically pipelines for aluminum products are up compared to last year due to an expanded distribution network and new product introductions.
Fiberglass sterndrive and inboard pipelines are flat versus the prior year while fiberglass outboard pipelines are down slightly.
Our plan assumes that the wholesale unit growth rate for the full year will be consistent with our retail unit growth rate.
In addition the current pipeline levels are appropriate given our growth expectations in the various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with these overall levels.
The Boat segment's first quarter operating earnings declined by $700 000 when compared to the prior year.
Operating performance in the quarter included planned cost increases associated with new product introductions capacity expansions and production ramp up partially offset by higher sales including several new product introductions.
In addition foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on our first quarter earnings.
On a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 6% for the quarter.
Growth resulted from higher sales to U.S.
health clubs and hospitality customers as well as sales gains in international markets particularly certain developing regions.
Partially offsetting this growth was lower sales to local and federal governments.
The segment continued to benefit from new product introductions in all regions with this quarter representing its 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Life Fitness continues to develop new products and services that drive market share growth in their commercial cardio and strength categories.
Recent examples that have led to their share gains include the Explore Console for the Elevation Series the PowerMill Fighter Climber the FlexStrider the E-Series Cross-Trainers and the multi-purpose synergy family of training systems.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter decreased 13% as the impact from higher sales was more than offset by the absence of a favorable warranty adjustment in 2014 and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
In addition Life Fitness incurred cost associated with the planned capacity expansion activities and new product introductions.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bill for some additional comments on the financials starting with the consolidated perspective on how foreign exchange affected our results.
Thanks Mark.
I would like to start with discussing the impact that foreign currency is having on our sales comparisons.
As a reminder approximately 20% of our sales are transacted in a currency other than the U.S.
dollar.
Our most material exposures include sales in euros Canadian dollars Brazilian real and Australian dollars.
In the first quarter consolidated sales comparisons were negatively affected by almost 4% which was higher than our previous guidance due to further strengthening of the dollar.
For the full year we're estimating a similar impact on year-over-year comparisons.
The impact on operating earnings in the first quarter was approximately $10 million which was also higher than expected.
For the full year we are now estimating that operating earnings comparisons will be negatively affected by $30 million to $35 million or 8% to 9%.
This estimate includes the impact of translation on all sales and costs transacting in the currency other than the U.S.
dollar benefits from hedging activities of $11 million and offsetting price actions in certain international markets.
Additionally estimates for the full year assumed that rates remain consistent with current rates for the remainder of the year.
Regarding our tax provision our effective book tax rate as adjusted was 34% for the quarter.
Our effective book tax rate for the full year 2015 guidance is also 34% which excludes any benefit from the extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit which would lower the rate by approximately 1.5% for the year.
Our estimated effective cash tax rate for 2015 reflects a low double-digit percent level.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Cash used for operating activities was $125.9 million a slight change of $1.8 million versus the prior year.
As planned pension contributions were approximately $61 million in the quarter an increase versus the prior year due to the timing of our 2015 pension contributions.
Normal seasonal changes in working capital balances resulted in a use of cash in our primary working capital accounts and totaled approximately $161 million which is improved from the prior year.
The biggest changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $88 million accrued expenses which decreased by $78 million inventory which increased by $28 million and accounts payable increased by $33 million.
Given the seasonality of sales in our Marine businesses we anticipate the liquidation of working capital over the balance of the year.
Total free cash flow amounted to a negative $168 million versus a negative $145 million in the prior year a difference of about $23 million.
Capital spending was approximately $34 million which included investments in new products in our Marine and Fitness businesses as well as capacity expansion projects.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments in growth and enhance shareholder returns.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $426 million a decline from year-end 2014 reflects a seasonal free cash flow usage of $168 million as well as cash returned to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends of approximately $20 million and $12 million respectively.
I'd like to conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2015.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $90 million.
We expect pension expense to be approximately $13 million.
Any related charges associated with the second phase of the lump sum buyout plan in Q4 are excluded from our adjusted EPS guidance.
Net interest expense is expected to be about $26 million and combined equity earnings and other income are anticipated to be comparable to the prior year.
And finally we expect our average diluted shares outstanding for the full year to be approximately 94.5 million.
The anticipated reduction in average shares outstanding reflects the continued execution of our $200 million share repurchase program initiated in 2014 with purchases in line with the previous quarters partially offset by compensation plan activity.
Through the end of Q1 we've purchased $40 million under this program or 787 000 shares of stock.
We expect to systematically complete the remainder of the current program by the end of 2016.
On the cash flow side our plan reflects $70 million to $75 million of cash contributions to our pension plan which includes an amount that will be used to fund the lump sum benefit buyouts in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The majority of those contributions have already been funded in Q1 to maximize returns and plan expense benefits.
Our current plan anticipates working capital changes to result in modest usage of cash of $20 million to $40 million and capital expenditures of approximately 4% of sales with a substantial portion directed at growth and profit enhancing projects including against capacity expansion plans in each of our segments.
Despite higher investment spending levels and a modest usage of cash for working capital we plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in the range of $170 million to $190 million.
I would now like to turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thank you Bill.
Pardon me.
Our overall operating plans and assumptions for 2015 remain consistent with those we communicated on our last call.
The first quarter produced results within the range of our initial guidance and expectations.
We continue to target 2015 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects approximately 6% to 8% sales growth which includes the benefits from the successes of our new products and the continuation of solid growth in the United States partially offset by weaknesses in certain international marine markets.
Our guidance does not include any additional acquisitions made in 2015.
We've also incorporated our assessment of the impact from changes in foreign exchange reflecting current rates.
For the full year we anticipate a slight improvement in gross margin levels and solid gains in operating margins.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks our earnings growth will be more heavily weighted to the second half of the year reflecting improved manufacturing efficiencies and cost reductions as well as less severe FX comparison.
Our earnings will benefit from managing costs through initiatives such as LEAN Six Sigma and by implementing programs to improve product cost through supply chain initiatives and manufacturing efficiencies.
As a result of ongoing growth investments full year operating expenses will increase but as a percentage of sales are expected to be lower than 2014 levels approximately 17% to 17.2%.
For the second half of 2015 we expect the increase in overall operating expenses to be more modest than planned in the first half.
As a result our pre-tax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong growth of 15% to 20%.
Finally with one quarter behind us we've raised the bottom-end of our initial 2015 EPS guidance as adjusted to now reflect a range of $2.75 to $2.85.
An early look at the 2015 second quarter indicates continued strong top-line growth forecasted in the 6% to 8% range and operating margins to be flat compared to the same period in 2014.
If we now look at our segments our 2015 plan reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine segment.
Specifically we're planning for revenue growth in the mid single-digit range with a solid improvement in operating margins despite currency headwinds and the continued negative impact on operating leverage from acquisitions.
In addition we will continue to make significant investments at Mercury.
Our current plan reflects a stable pricing environment for our larger horsepower engine businesses.
Looking at our Boat segment our plan assumes that we continue to successfully execute our large fiberglass boat strategy which is a key part of an increasing number of new products that will be shipped into the market.
Our plan also reflects solid growth of outboard boats under 28 feet throughout the year and therefore influences our overall average sales price.
As a result increases in the average sales prices will be at lower rates of growth versus 2014.
Our current plan reflects a stable pricing environment for our Boat businesses.
We're targeting 2015 annual revenue growth in the low double-digit range and we expect margins to be up with year-over-year improvement in the segment's operating margins to be equal to or modestly less than what we achieved in 2014.
In our Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
In 2015 we're now targeting revenue growth in the low to mid single-digit range reflecting the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
We'll continue to make significant investments of Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation to achieve competitive differentiation and its products and services which should continue to enable market share growth and create business opportunities beyond its core business model.
We're planning for margins to be flat to slightly up at Life Fitness for the full year.
Our capital strategy for 2015 remains consistent with what we described to you on our last call.
We plan to maintain strong cash flow and liquidity positions deploy capital to strengthen our Marine and Fitness segments and to execute our pension derisking plan as well as return cash to shareholders through a balanced approach that includes dividends and share repurchases.
So to conclude today's call though we face some challenges in 2015 we're well-positioned to continually execute our growth strategy and increase shareholder value.
The management team and the 12 000-plus employees will remain focused on bringing to market a steady cadence of new product introductions aimed at attracting and capturing sales through consumer-friendly features and capabilities expanding capacity throughout all of our businesses Engine Boat and Fitness to meet increasing demand; increasing efficiencies and streamlining costs by continuing to operate our businesses as successfully as possible; and identifying and funding the best opportunities that we see for growth as well as managing and adjusting Brunswick's product portfolio as necessary.
And with that we'll quit talking and turn the call over to you for your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from James Hardiman from Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call guys.
Hi James.
Inc.</span></strong> How are you doing? Good.
Inc.</span></strong> So strong quarter given all the turbulent activity going on in the international markets.
I guess a question on the guide.
On an absolute basis your sales guidance is unchanged the midpoint of EPS is $0.025 higher.
I guess when I sort of run through the math on what you've given us on the FX side it sounds like an incremental 150 basis points of headwinds on the top-line and $0.04 to $0.07 roughly on the EPS line from FX.
I guess the question there is what's changed over the past three months given those incremental headwinds that in theories some stuff must have gotten better given the constant currency increase in the guide? Well the simple answer is James we've rolled up our sleeves and said we're going to work our way through this currency impact.
So we're working on costs; we're working on efficiencies.
We're doing a little better in certain markets and with certain products than we thought we would.
So when you roll all that up as I began our comments with we're bullish on our ability to handle the year that we predicted 15% to 20% earnings before taxes growth and we just see our way there.
We're not very worried about it.
We're just going to have to handle all this stuff.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then sort of related question here.
I guess first is there any way you could split out the global boat unit growth number I think is 12%.
What did that look like domestically versus Europe and rest of the world? And I guess just bigger picture question if you strip out all the translational impact of currency sounds like the momentum in the U.S.
is great sounds like the momentum in Europe is pretty great.
Rest of the world which I guess for you guys is primarily a Canadian issue is pretty bad.
Can you just talk through some of the competitive issues going on in those different markets some of which may have stemmed from currency and the impact that might have on European or Japanese manufacturers but maybe walk us through some of the intricacies there so that we can better understand some of that? I'll first let Bill do the arithmetic for you.
Yeah the international unit demand was flattish for us with the U.S.
markets making up the difference.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Let's look at competition et cetera.
We clearly just because as we look at the NMMA numbers and we've told you what our increase in retail was we took a lot of share here in the U.S.
market.
And frankly we plan to with all the new product introductions we have.
Brazil is a place where we're taking share but as we've said that overall market is down.
Our advantage that permits us to take share is local manufacturing.
So we're taking share in a down market.
It's sort of with a policy from a (39:11) sister – kissing your sister.
We're glad to have it but it's not that exciting.
As we look at Europe we did really well in Europe.
And the big reason there is our European boat companies have been introducing lots of new products.
They keep winning awards over there every year with their product introductions.
They're moving to some bigger products and that business is developing a little momentum along with – I think we said Europe will be flat to slightly up – so with our ability to take share and the momentum there we feel good about that market.
So really really tough place is Canada.
In general the Canadian market is heavily supplied by U.S.
based manufacturers.
And with the Canadian-U.S.
dollar relationship the price of boats for most Canadians has now gone up say 20% in round numbers.
What happened is we saw January and February start out actually quite nicely at retail and that was not a surprise to us because our view was that at boat shows and other places and dealerships that dealers were selling products they had purchased at exchange rates that were very different than the current exchange rates.
Once those boats generally begin to sell out March experienced a significant decline at retail.
And in our view it's going to be a tough place to be for the remainder of this year.
Eventually what's there at retail that's going to get sold out eventually dealers are going to need to replenish and the market will settle down.
But for 2015 it's just going to be a difficult place to be and that's the toughest outside United States market where we're dealing with.
Is that helpful as an explanation? Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
And just a quick clarification here.
So the Canadian market for the most part boats are bought in U.S.
dollars is that correct versus the European market where you have the translational risk but much less of a competitive risk is that how we should be thinking about this? Here's the way to think of it.
The Canadian market is supplied by boats manufactured in the U.S.
In general the European market is supplied by us by boats manufactured in Europe.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
But as in terms of the boats that you sell to both of those markets are they both in the local currencies or is Canada and U.S.
dollars to your dealers at least and then they have to sort of make those adjustments is there a difference in sort of how that currency works from your perspective? I think about two-thirds of the boats that we make or about 70% of the boats that we sell in Canada are actually made in the U.S.
because we've got a Princecraft brand that sits in Canada that manufactures in Canadian dollars and sells in Canadian dollars.
And most every other boat that's sold up there is something that's imported in from the U.S.
It is a sale that's transacted in Canadian dollars but dealers are generally buying in the U.S.
dollars.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And it doesn't sound like they are then lowering the prices to the consumer in any way that would allow some of that FX headwind not to hit the consumer? Yeah actually protect themselves.
Correct.
They ought to be raising prices.
Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Right.
Okay.
Good color.
And just to clarify in Europe about 70% of the boats that we sell in Europe are manufactured in Europe.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Very helpful.
Thanks guys.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the question.
The first one is the comment in your press release about FX being the competitive risk.
And I realize you put that in last quarter as well but I think many probably viewed it as sort of a boilerplate risk factor.
And now in light of some other events that I think investors have seen it's probably getting a little bit more focused.
So can you talk about what you're seeing I guess specifically on the engine side where we've seen Yamaha already act (43:55) in some other industries.
Honda has a national TV campaign advertising deal on some marine engines.
So maybe specifically how you're planning for that portion? In the U.S.
we're not really seeing anything.
And the only impact we're seeing in the difference between the relationship in the yen and other currencies is in some relatively small markets with smaller horsepower engines.
And even there the smaller horsepower engines we put into the market are produced in Japan in a joint venture we have with the Hudson.
So when you roll that all up and above we're not seeing any significant or material impact on the engine side from the engine producers.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just if I ran some numbers I just want to make sure in the ballpark here.
If I back out the FX impact on boats that you guys talked about and we were to assume let's just call the 25% incremental margin it would have suggested operating income maybe about $3 million higher.
So is that roughly the order of magnitude that the plant expansion and the production ramps have caused in the quarter and how do we think about that sort of progressing down over the rest of the year? I think you're directionally correct and the biggest improvement we will see in the Boat business will occur in the second half as these inefficiencies go away efficiencies begin to take effect.
So a way to think about our second half and while the second half is obviously going to be very strong from an operating margin standpoint and ordered in rank order inefficiencies and operating issues will go away in the second half.
Currency impact on it will be less in the second half because we began to see currency changes in Q4 last year.
And a lot of the one-items that were impacting second – first half will not reappear in second half.
So when you add all that up the half to half improvement is going to be quite significant.
Okay.
And then just one quick clarification on the guidance in follow-up to James' question I mean is BLA in your guidance now because that by my numbers would actually cover most of sort of the top-line – offset most of the top-line impact from the increase to FX headwind and then if you assume sort of a normal I guess P&amp;A margin most of the EPS impact as well so is that in there? The sales are in there there's no earnings in there.
There's no earnings.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
But that's because for the year we're not anticipating a bigger earnings contribution.
You got to remember that this is a distribution business distribution margins tend to be relatively low but this is a business that we feel combined with our existing presence in Australia that we're going to do real well with over time.
So I want to take just a minute and summarize with BLA where we are on our plan to grow our P&amp;A business by $350 million top-line through acquisition we said that could be up to a three-year process.
So we're a little over a year into it.
We're at about $110 million and are working on this – stay very relaxed everybody – to – we're working toward our goal of making them.
And in fact when we get to our November this year meaning where we talk about our performance 2016 2017 and 2018 it's highly likely that you'll see us increase the amount of sales growth we think we can get through from P&amp;A acquisitions.
We're incredibly happy with this process with the results that we're going to get from it and what we think the long-term benefits will be.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you and gentlemen congrats again on the execution in a tough environment with a lot of crosswinds.
Thank you Tim.
We appreciate that.
Just a clarification question on Canada if I may.
Any color you can give us by region? If the root of the question comes from any preliminary fallout from demand in Western Canada in particular from the oil related businesses or is this fairly well spread evenly across Canada or – just any color there? And then we're hearing from some of our industry sources that the saltwater business actually in boats is extremely strong.
In fact in some cases the industry including yourselves is having some difficulty supplying a sufficient quantity of outboard engines for that.
And clearly if the Japanese were so inclined they wouldn't want to be giving away margin in that circumstance.
So any additional color you could give from that perspective? Let's first do the Canadian region.
The big markets in Canada are Québec and Ontario and we have – Princecraft is primarily Québec based as far as the rest of the market with our West (49:42) based brands and yes a lot stuff are out West oil spending – oil related spending has gone down.
And as we measure the overall impact I would say it's not significantly moving the needle across all of Canada.
So it's really Québec is that what you're saying Dusty? Well more Ontario.
Okay.
Ontario is the (50:09) for us because we have – Québec is served by Princecraft very well.
Okay.
...compared to most of the rest of the (50:17).
Yeah Saltwater is strong.
I'm not aware and I'll let Mark speak to it that we're not able to meet demand except perhaps these 350-horsepower 400-horsepower come out red hot and as we ramp-up production we're sort of in that high-class problem sometimes.
A few more people want them than we're able to get ramped-up for.
Mark do you have anything? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah no I would just add to that that we've put in metered capacity increases based upon our outlook of the market – been very pleased with the best of the 75-horsepower 90-horsepower and 115-horsepower.
The 150-horsepower we had launched but capacity and anticipation of that demand – we have gotten a pretty strong response from our 350-horsepower and 400-horsepower we announced down in Miami.
But our capabilities there and our supply lines and stuff are such that the folks up at Mercury are responding to the demands and I don't believe we would be part of that issue you're talking about Tim.
Okay okay.
And then gentlemen Bill or whoever wants to take this as it relates to the capital allocation.
Clearly despite – you guys gave some caution at the Miami Boat Show regarding the Europeans potentially using the euro to be more competitive and the currency that's been out there.
And then also you gave some caution in early March at a conference saying that there wouldn't be a lot of upside.
And yet the fundamentals of the business excluding currency have done a little bit better as you've already talked about and have increased your guidance here in the early part of the year albeit minorly.
But as things still look in capacity and borrowing rates why would you maybe not look to forward buy that share repo? Is it related to maybe what you're alluding to on the opportunities on the P&amp;A side? I just think Tim it's an approach where we want to dollar-cost average in and we think the right thing for us to do is to buy a set amount every quarter flex it up and down based upon kind of where valuations are.
And it leaves some flexibility that if we do get some investment opportunities we haven't committed a significant amount of capital to share repurchase.
We've got some dry powder to do some other things.
Okay okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you Tim.
Our next question is from Mike Swartz from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Mike.
Just – and I know this is your favorite subject but can we talk about the weather for a second.
I know one of your largest dealers was talking about having some issues getting product into the New England region where there was a lot of weather issues earlier this year.
Did you see any of that and did it impact wholesale shipments into some of those regions that we should start to see I guess in the second quarter? No.
Yeah we obviously saw some of it but I don't think it's material enough that it's going to see any big swing in the first quarter or second quarter.
Frankly the biggest impact – I hate that word frankly – I just said it.
Actually the biggest impact was in our P&amp;A business up there which is very strong and Kellogg is our distribution base business up there.
And it was pretty miserable through the winter there; they're based in the Boston area.
Pretty miserable was really an understatement; it's actually quite miserable.
And that's starting to come back nicely but that's the only – the biggest impact we would have seen Mike.
Okay thanks Dusty.
And then just on the Fitness side I know that you kind of laid out that the government part of the business was a little weak in the first quarter.
Is that something that we should expect going forward or was this something just kind of tied to the first quarter? Boy if I knew how the government was going to allocate money I'd be a lot smarter than I am right now Mike.
Frankly or actually as we're thinking about it we don't see them doing a lot more in the second quarter than they did in the first quarter.
And if there's going to be any opportunity it will be in Q3.
And we tried to make our best view as to what they would do for the remainder of the year in our guidance about how the Fitness business is going to perform.
Okay.
That's great.
I'll leave it at that.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thanks.
Our next question is from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hi David.
Hi.
Just a quick question on the free cash flow; you bumped up the guidance by $20 million is that just working capital or what else might be happening there? It's working capital and taxes paid.
Taxes paid are going to be a little bit lower than what we thought three months ago.
And we've got a little bit more visibility into working capital and we feel comfortable that we can decrease the amount of working capital usage for it so.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just on the parts and accessories business you talked Dusty about the growth initiative the three-year plan – you're one year into it; it sounds like it's going well.
But what should we expect in terms of margin progression as you build that out over the next couple of years? Do international acquisitions do they bring an accretive or a dilutive effect to the percentage margins in that business? Overall these acquisitions will be dilutive to P&amp;A margin because in the pecking order David – and we try to talk about this as often as we can.
Mercury branded parts are highest margin.
We then have all of the boat parts we kind of take through our Attwood business or other types of parts and accessories.
And then the lowest margin are in the distribution business.
So two of the three that we've acquired are actually in the distribution business.
When we do parts manufacturers that will fall in line with average Mercury margins but will be a bit dilutive to overall P&amp;A margins.
But the rate of return on these investments is really really good and the competitive position that puts us in we love.
So we're quite comfortable having a little margin dilution in order to continue this activity.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for my taking my questions.
Welcome Jimmy.
First on the Boat side great performance at retail up 12% versus wholesale up 4%.
Can you just help us understand why that didn't translate to a decrease in weeks of channel inventory? I realize that's a trailing 12-month metric but in each of the last three quarters of 2014 your retail performance was also in line or often quite stronger than your wholesale shipments.
So can you just help us with the math there? Is there something that's distorting that or something else that we need to consider like dealer turnover? No.
It's non-effective by dealer turnover.
Here is – will be my simplistic explanation.
In general what I think is going on in the boat market it would be financing pipelines everything so that is wholesale financing.
We have been really increasing the rate of new products.
And generally everybody knows when the modeling year ends.
And dealers are getting very good at wanting the model year to end with a very few birthday boats sitting in their lot.
So what's happening is as we go through the – moving into the selling season wholesale does not match retail as they really pull their pipelines down.
So that's sort of first quarter and second quarter.
Then we finish the heart of the retail selling season through a model year change and then with lots of new models coming out dealers then begin in Q3 and Q4 to begin to get themselves ready for the next selling season make decisions about new product et cetera.
So what's happening is and it's clearly setting up this year it happened a bit last year and I'll work at it at two levels.
Strong second half versus first half even though the prime selling season in marine is first half.
And then secondly as we watch pipelines pipelines in my view are going to get really low here in our second quarter because retail is quite strong dealers will sell-through and then everybody is going to need to take a breath and start replenishing to get ready for next year.
So we were careful in our prepared remarks to say wholesale growth will equal retail growth over the year.
It's just not going to look that way in first quarter and second quarter and then it will flip around in Q3 and Q4 Jimmy.
Is that helpful? Yeah that's actually very helpful.
I appreciate it.
So then separately you highlighted your sterndrive engine business was up in the quarter and your sterndrive engine competitor posted fairly strong Q1 gains in all geographies particularly strengthened in North America.
Yet we all see the SSI data you noted that global retail trends in the sterndrive segment remain unfavorable.
Can you just put those two for us why we're seeing these wholesale gains there when retail continues to deteriorate? Well actually where a lot of sterndrives go I think if you look at the way you might have two sterndrives as an example.
As you look at and I don't know let me find the slide real quick Jimmy see if you're up on you screen you can flip back to it.
It's our slide nine so we're seeing some of the bigger sterndrive models actually be up in Q2 Q3 and Q4 last year Q1 this year and those put a lot of sterndrives through.
I think that's what you're generally seeing while we're all saying the sterndrive market getting a little better.
And those are obviously higher dollar sterndrives than the smaller ones.
I would also point out that Sea Ray's introduction of the new SPX models which have a fairly high sterndrive component to them there's been a fair amount of wholesale activity.
Those things are just starting to flow through the retail results Jimmy.
So at least from our engine perspective that's helpful.
Certainly not competitor but for ours it's helpful.
Okay great.
And then just lastly if I can slip one in on Fitness the margins were down a bit in the quarter but you actually took up your margin guidance language for that segment for the year.
Can you just help us understand I guess first how the first quarter compared with your prior expectations for that business and then secondly what you're seeing there that's giving you a little bit more confidence in the profitability of the Fitness segment despite the currency headwinds? Yeah Jimmy we can sum up.
The first quarter margin impact is all driven by the year-to-year comparison last year we had big warranty improvements which were significant dollars in the first quarter not repeated first quarter this year.
That is fundamentally the whole story.
So as we go through the rest of the year you kind of get a sense that we think margins will be generally improving with all the new products we have as we make up for this tough first quarter.
But first quarter is all driven by lack of all the warranty gains we got in the first quarter 2014.
Very helpful.
Thanks very much for the time.
You're welcome.
Thank you Jimmy.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Dusty McCoy for some concluding remarks.
So thanks everybody for joining us today.
I know for me the analysts who cover this is a very difficult scheduling.
Next couple of days we try to adjust the call timing to accommodate as many of you as possible.
As always thanks for the great questions.
We're out on the road a lot for the next month and I'm sure we'll be seeing many of you in the coming days and weeks.
So thanks very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Brunswick Corporation's 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Investor Relations.
You may go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; Mark Schwabero President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I would like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our Web site at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would also like to remind you that the figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thanks Bruce and good morning everyone.
We are now about three fourths of the way through the retail marine selling season and the U.S.
and European markets continue to provide us with a solid platform from which to grow our businesses.
The second quarter results were in line with our expectations and represent the fourth consecutive quarter that constant currency growth rates have exceeded 10%.
Our recently launched new engines boats and fitness equipment continue to generate market share gains and our 2015 outlook continues to reflect another year of strong earnings growth free cash flow and investment in our businesses.
Let's now walk through an overview of our second quarter results.
To more accurately reflect the operating in market fundamentals of our operating segments we'll also present net sales on a constant currency basis which excludes the impact of changes in exchange rates.
Reported revenue in the quarter increased 6%.
From a constant currency basis revenue increased by 11% with each of our segments reporting a double-digit growth rate.
Strongest growth rates were reported by fiberglass stern drive inboard boats marine parts and accessories fiberglass outboard boats and outboard engines.
This growth also included a solid performance by our fitness segment.
Our gross margin was flat compared to the prior year.
Operating expenses increased by 4% which were 14.9% of sales.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 9% versus the prior year with operating margins of 13.5% up 30 basis points compared to last year and slightly higher than our quarterly guidance.
As we detailed in our April call we forecasted that second quarter operating margins would be flat compared to 2014 as we faced foreign exchange headwinds the absence of 2014 favorable warranty adjustments in the fitness and boats segments and continued increases investments to support our strategic objectives.
In addition our new product launch successes introduced additional cost and inefficiencies in the first half as we opened an expanded plant capacity to meet demand continued to integrate a significant number of new products into production in each of our segments and ramped up production as our sales continue to experience significant growth.
Throughout the first half our entire organization focused on cost reduction activities to mitigate these headwinds.
These activities combined with certain operating expenses shifting into the third quarter enabled us to modestly exceed our second quarter operating margin target.
Continuing down the P&amp;L adjusted pre-tax earnings increased by 11% and diluted EPS as adjusted was $1.05 reflecting a 12% increase over the prior year period.
Our second quarter sales performance represents the fourth consecutive quarter of this strong growth rate.
Reflecting contributions from recent investments in new product launches throughout our organization as well as solid market demand.
On a constant currency basis sales in our combined marine segments increased by 11% while our fitness segment increased by 10%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 12%.
On a constant currency basis European sales increased by 16% rest of world sales increased by 4%.
And in summary combined sales outside the U.S.
increased by 9%.
In the first half on a constant currency basis sales in our combined marine segments increased by 13% while our fitness segment increased by 8%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 14%.
On a constant currency basis European sales increased by 16% and rest of the world sales increased by 4%.
In summary then combined sales outside the United States increased by 9%.
Adjusted operating earnings were $154.2 million for the quarter an increase of $12.8 million compared to 2014.
Our adjusted operating margins of 13.5% reflects a 30 basis point increase compared to the prior year.
For the first six months adjusted operating earnings were $242.9 million an increase of $19.6 million compared to 2014.
Our adjusted operating margin of 11.4% is 10 basis points higher than the prior year slightly better than the guidance we provided in our previous two earnings calls.
Adjusted pre-tax earnings increased by $15.2 million or 11% as we also benefited from lower net interest expense and higher other income.
For the six months adjusted pre-tax earnings increased by $25 million or 12%.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted for the quarter equaled $1.05 per share an increase of $0.11.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations as adjusted for the first half equaled $1.64 per share.
This reflects a 12% increase versus the prior year.
I'll now provide our perspective on the marine market.
In the first half of 2015 the U.S.
power boat industry grew 5.4% based on preliminary data.
As once again outboard boats demonstrated the highest growth rates.
The second quarter which on average compromises about 45% of the year at retail reflected a growth rate of about approximately 5%.
Given our assumption of a continuation of sub 3% annual GDP growth rate we anticipate 2015 U.S.
industry growth rates to be comparable with 2014.
In fact the first half growth rate in 2015 is currently identical to the growth rate in the first six months of 2014.
I'll now provide some additional color on marine markets outside the United States.
Let's start with Europe which in 2014 represented 12% of our combined marine segment sales.
Overall the retail boat and inter market for Europe in the second quarter was up by mid single-digit percentage.
We're just experiencing solid strong growth included most of Scandinavia Spain and Portugal as well as the United Kingdom and Germany.
The French market was flat to slightly down.
Eastern Europe and we include Finland there suffered declines in the Russian market which is more important to the engine segment than to our boat group continue to see declines due to the weakening of the ruble and continued political concerns.
Continued ECB monetary policy should support continued slow growth in retail market demand in Europe because most Brunswick marine products sold in Europe is priced in local currency the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar hasn't affected retail demand.
However the negative effects of the translation are lowering margins on product not manufactured in the region.
For the full year we are finding for overall demand in Europe to be modestly up.
In Canada which in 2014 represented 9% of combined marine segment sales second quarter retail was down approximately mid to high single-digit percent following a difficult first quarter.
This was primarily due to the continued strength of U.S.
dollar and the dwindling supply of inventory purchase previously at a weaker U.S.
dollar.
The remainder of 2015 is expected to be down a greater degree as dealers are now mostly selling products purchased at stronger U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
For the full year we are planning for overall demand in Canada to be down high single-digit to low double-digit percent.
In Asia Pacific which accounted for 7% of sales retail markets experienced flat overall demand in the second quarter.
Our plan reflects a flat market for 2015 compared to 2014.
Finally in South America about 5% of 2014 sales the retail market in the first half continued to be down significantly.
Approximately 20% compared to the same period a year earlier.
The weakening real has severely limited boats being imported into Brazil from the U.S.
or Europe.
As a result Brunswick brands manufactured in Brazil have picked up market share but we're still challenged for sales due to an overall weak retail boat market.
For the full year we're planning for the overall South American market to be down double digits.
In summary then global market unit demand for the year is expected to increase closer to the lower end for the long-term growth range of 3% to 5%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark for a closer look at our segment results.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the marine engine segment where second quarter sales on a constant currency basis increased by 11%.
Overall acquisitions contributed 5% to the segment's year-over-year growth.
From a geographic perspective sales in the U.S.
were up 11% reflecting increases in parts and accessories and outboard engines.
Excluding acquisitions U.S.
sales increased approximately 6%.
Sales to Mercury's European customers excluding currency changes increased by 16% which included a 7% benefit from an acquisition completed in 2014.
Sales increased in all major product categories in spite of the weakness in Russia.
Rest of world sales on a constant currency basis increased by 7% as these regions benefited from gains in outboard engines as well as parts and accessories.
This growth was partially offset by lower stern drive inboard sales and the market weakness in Brazil.
For the first half the segment sales on a constant currency basis increased by 13%.
Overall acquisitions contributed 4% to the segments first half growth.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported solid overall sales growth in the quarter which included benefits for Mercury 7590 and 115-horsepower four strokes that were introduced in 2014 as well as the new 350 and 400-horsepower engines launched in first quarter of 2015 which fortifies our position in targeted growth segments.
These engines have been well received by OEMs and consumers particularly for larger offshore boats and they have led to market share increases within these horsepower categories including gains in our targeted saltwater re-power and commercial markets.
Our outlook for the U.S.
outboard engine business continues to reflect favorable retail demand.
Europe and rest of world markets both demonstrated year-over-year growth with the exception of the high-volume small horsepower engine market in certain regions including Russia due to the weak retail demand mentioned earlier.
Turning to the stern drive business Mercury continues to expand upon its new engine the purpose built specifically for marine use.
The new 6.2-liter V-8 300 and 350-horsepower models were introduced earlier this month.
These engines leverage the investment from previously introduced MerCruiser 4.5-liter V-6 platform for the 200 and 250-horsepower engine.
However stern drive engine sales continue to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
Mercury's parts and accessories businesses delivered strong sales growth during the quarter with gains in most major markets.
Revenue benefited from acquisitions new product launches and market share gains.
This includes product successes such as Attwood's portable and integrated fuel systems as well as their new LED and underwater lighting system products.
Whale's new and award-winning range of intelligent control pump systems Motor Guides new trolling motors joystick piloting systems for outboard engines a refreshed helm suite with new control and features the award-winning ECO Enertia propeller and Quicksilver branded lubricants for not only our marine market but also for motorcycles ATVs and snowmobiles.
In addition the continued sales records achieved by our distribution business portfolio including Land 'N' Sea Kellogg Marine Diversified Products and the Bell recreational product businesses demonstrate their ability to deliver on superior product availability on-time delivery and product category expansions.
As a reminder we completed our third P&amp;A acquisition BLA early in the second quarter of 2015.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 8% compared to last year's second quarter.
Operating margins were at 19.1% 30 basis points higher than the prior year quarter.
The improvement in operating earnings reflected higher sales including a favorable product mix benefit from the recently launched outboard products and the parts and accessory growth.
Partially offsetting these positive factors were the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange and increased investments for long-term growth.
For the six months operating margins were 16.5%; 60 basis points higher than last year.
In our boat segment second quarter revenues on a constant currency basis increased by 11% with strong growth in the fiberglass stern drive inboard boats and solid gains in fiberglass outboard boats partially offset by declines in aluminum boats.
On a year-to-year basis our boat brands continued to make progress in gaining share.
This occurred not only in the U.S.
market but also in key regions including Europe Brazil and Canada.
Our share gains reflect the advancements made by our various product development teams both in terms of lowering the period of time required to introduce new products across our brands and categories as well as bringing fresh new concepts into the marketplace.
This has been demonstrated across our brands and categories including Boston Whaler's Dauntless family of boats and the 320 Vantage.
Sea Ray's 19-foot SPX and the L class yachts.
Lund's 1750 Rebel SX and the Harris Dual Console Pontoon.
Our plan reflects continued share gains as we launch new models in the market including Sea Ray's new 400 Sport Yacht and 280 SLX which will be debuting in the third quarter.
In the U.S.
which represents over two thirds of the segments sales increased by 16%.
In the quarter European sales on a constant currency basis increased by 9% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of new products including larger higher-priced products by our European manufactured outboard boat brands.
Rest of world sales on a constant currency basis decreased by 1% which reflected the weaker demand in Canada which was down 6% on a constant currency basis due to the conditions described by Dusty earlier in this call.
In the first half overall boat revenues on a constant currency basis increased by 13% with strong growth in the fiberglass stern drive inboard boats and solid gains in fiberglass outboard boats.
In the second quarter Brunswick's global retail unit sales increased by 5% compared to the prior year reflecting our continued market share gains.
Global wholesale unit shipments increased by 1% as declines in aluminum boats were partially offset by gains in fiberglass boats.
This increase in wholesale unit shipments compares to the Boat Group dollar sales increase of 8% as revenues benefited from a favorable shift in mix.
For the six months global retail unit sales increased by 7% compared to our prior year while global wholesale unit shipments were up 1% versus an increase in dollar sales of 10%.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter with 31 weeks of boats on hand measured on a trailing 12-month retail basis compared to 34 weeks at the end of second quarter of 2014.
Unit pipelines for aluminum products are up modestly compared to last year due to an expanded distribution network and our new product introductions.
Fiberglass stern drive and inboard unit pipelines are up slightly versus the prior year while the fiberglass out board pipelines are down.
Our plan assumes that the wholesale unit growth rate for the full year will approximate the retail unit growth rate.
For the remainder of the year we are planning for the wholesale unit growth to be a bigger contributor to our sales increase than the average sales price growth.
In addition the current pipeline levels are appropriate given our growth expectations in the various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with these overall levels.
The boat segment second quarter adjusted operating earnings increased by $600 000 or 3% when compared to the prior year.
Operating performance in the quarter included planned manufacturing cost increases associated with new product integration capacity expansions and production ramp up partially offset by the higher sales including several new product introductions.
In addition the foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on second quarter earnings.
For the six months operating margins were 4.3% 40 basis points lower when compared to the prior year as adjusted results.
On a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 10% for the quarter.
Growth resulted from higher sales in U.S.
health clubs and hospitality customers as well as sales gains in international markets particularly in Europe and certain developing regions.
The segment continued to benefit from new product introductions in all regions and with this quarter representing its 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Life Fitness continues to develop new products and services that are resulting in market share growth in the commercial cardio and strength categories.
Recent examples that have led to their share gains include the Explore Console for the Elevation Series our PowerMill Climber the FlexStrider our E-Series cross trainers and the multipurpose Synergy family of training systems.
In the first half on a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 8%.
The segment operating earnings in the quarter increased $4.2 million or 22% as favorable impact from higher sales along with benefits from cost management actions were partially offset by the impact from foreign exchange.
Operating margins were at 13.3% 180 basis points higher than the prior year.
In addition Life Fitness incurred increased manufacturing costs associated with planned capacity expansion activities and new product integrations.
For the six months operating margins were 13.6% 50 basis points lower than last year reflecting the absence of a favorable warranty adjustment in the first quarter of 2014.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bill for some additional comments on the financials starting with the consolidated perspective on how foreign exchange affects our results.
Thanks Mark.
I would like to start with discussing the impact of foreign currency is having on our sales comparisons.
As a reminder approximately 20% of our sales are transacted in a currency other than the U.S.
dollar.
Our most material exposures include sales and Euros Canadian dollars Brazilian real and Australian dollars.
In the second quarter consolidated sales comparisons were negatively affected by approximately $46 million or 4.3% which was slightly higher than our previous guidance due to further strengthening of the dollar.
For the full year we're estimating a 4% impact on year-over-year comparisons.
The impact on operating earnings in the second quarter was approximately $8 million.
For the full year we're estimating that operating earnings comparisons will be negatively affected by $30 million to $35 million or 8% to 9%.
This estimate includes the impact of translation on all sales and costs transacted into currency other than the U.S.
dollar benefits from hedging activities of $11 million and pricing actions taken in certain international markets in response to the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
Additionally estimates for the full year assume that rates remain consistent with current rates for the remainder of the year.
Regarding our tax provision our effective book tax rate as adjusted was 34% for the quarter.
Our effective book tax rate for the full year of 2015 guidance is 34% which excludes any benefit from the potential extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit which would lower the tax rate by approximately 1.5% for the year.
Our estimated effective cash tax rate for 2015 reflects a low teen percent level.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement year-to-date cash provided by continuing operating activities was $108.8 million an increase of $45.2 million versus the prior year.
As planned pension contributions were approximately $72 million in the first half of the year an increase versus the prior year due to the timing of our 2015 pension contributions.
Normal seasonal changes in balances resulted in a use of cash in our primary working capital accounts and totaled approximately $87 million for the first half which is substantially improved from the prior year.
If these changes occurred in accounts and notes receivable which increased by $59 million accrued expenses which decreased by $43 million accounts payable increased by $20 million and inventory increased by $7 million.
Year-to-date our working capital performance has improved versus the prior year due to better inventory management and timing of collections.
We anticipate a seasonal liquidation of working capital over the balance of the year.
Year-to-date free cash flow of approximately $37 million versus $17 million in the prior year an increase of $20 million.
Capital spending was approximately $65 million which included investments in new products and all of our businesses as well as capacity expansion process.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments in growth including acquisitions and enhance shareholder returns.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $609 million; the change from year end 2014 reflects year-to-date free cash flow of $37 million as well as cash returned to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends of approximately $60 million and $23 million respectively.
In addition the change reflects net proceeds received from the sale of the Bowling Products business.
Let me conclude with some comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2015.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately $90 million.
We expect pension expense to be approximately $12 million.
Any pension related charges associated with the second phase of the lump sum buyouts planned to be completed in Q4 are excluded from our adjusted EPS guidance.
And interest expense is expected to be about $26 million.
Combined equity earnings and other income are anticipated to be comparable to the prior year.
And we expect our diluted shares outstanding for the full year to be approximately $94.3 million.
The anticipated reduction in average shares outstanding reflects continued execution of our 200 million share repurchase program initiated in Q4 of 2014.
Over the last three quarters we have purchased approximately $80 million of stock including $40 million in Q2.
To-date we have repurchased about 1.6 million shares of stock under the program.
We expect to systematically complete the remainder of the program by the end of 2016.
On the cash flow side our plan reflects approximately $75 million of cash contribution for our pension plan which includes an amount that will be used to fund local lump sum benefit payment buyouts in 2015.
Just to point out almost all of these contributions have been funded in the first half to maximize returns and reduce our pension expense.
Our current plan anticipates working capital changes to result in a modest use of cash of $10 million to $30 million and capital expenditures of approximately 4% of sales with a substantial portion directed at growth and profit enhancing projects including executing against capacity expansion plans in each of our segments.
We plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in the range of $180 million to $200 million which is an increase versus prior guidance and reflects improvements in working capital trends.
I will now turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thanks Bill.
Our overall operating plans and assumptions for 2015 remain consistent with those we communicated in our last call.
Second quarter produced results within the range of our guidance.
We continue to target 2015 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding free cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects approximately 6% to 8% sales growth which includes benefits from the successes of our new products market share gains and the continuation of solid market growth in the U.S.
and Europe and completed acquisitions partially offset by weaknesses in certain international marine markets.
We've also incorporated our assessment of the impact and changes in foreign exchange reflecting current rates.
For the full year we anticipate a slight improvement in gross margins and solid gains in operating margins.
Our earnings growth is expected to be more heavily weighted to the second half of the year reflecting improved manufacturing efficiencies and cost reductions as well as less challenging FX comparisons.
Earnings will benefit from managing cost through initiatives such as Lean Six Sigma and by implementing programs to improve product costs through supply chain initiatives and manufacturing efficiencies.
As a result of ongoing growth investments full year operating expenses will increase but as a percentage of sales are expected to be lower than 2014 levels approximately 17% to 17.2%.
For the second half of 2015 we expect the increase in overall operating expenses to be more modest than reported in the first half.
As a result our full year pre-tax earnings should continue to demonstrate strong growth with 15% to 20%.
Finally with half a year behind us we are maintaining our 2015 EPS guidance as adjusted range of $2.75 to $2.85.
Now we look at 2015 third quarter indicates continued strong top line growth.
Forecasted in the 6% to 8% range and operating earnings to reflect incremental operating leverage in the low 20% range.
Third quarter leverage reflects a greater rate of growth and operating expense than we reported in the first half.
Turning to our segments the 2015 plan reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our marine engine segment.
Specifically we're planning for revenue growth in the mid single-digit percent range with a solid improvement in operating margins despite currency headwinds and the continued negative impact on earnings leverage from acquisitions.
In addition we will begin to make significant investments at Mercury.
Our current plan reflects a stable pricing environment for our larger horsepower engine businesses.
Looking at our boat segment our plan assumes that we continue to successfully execute our large fiberglass boat strategy which is the key part of an increasing number of new products that will be shipped into the market.
Our plan also reflects solid growth of outboard boats under 28 feet throughout the year.
As a result increases in average selling prices will be at a lower rate of growth versus 2014 with only modest increases planned for the rest of the year.
We're targeting 2015 annual revenue growth in the high single to low double-digit range.
And we expect margins to be up with year-over-year improvement in the segments operating margins to be less than achieved in 2014.
In our fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
In 2015 we're targeting revenue growth in the mid single-digit range.
We'll continue to make significant investments of Life Fitness aggressively leveraging innovation to achieve competitive differentiation in its products and services which should continue to enable market share growth and create business opportunities beyond its core business model.
Earlier this month we announced the acquisition of SCIFIT a leading provider of exercise equipment tailored to the needs of active aging seniors as well as the medical wellness and rehabilitation market.
This market represents one of several areas of growth opportunities for our fitness segment.
We're planning for margins to be [Technical Difficulty] of Life Fitness for the full year.
In conclusion we are well-positioned to continue to successfully execute our growth strategy and to create shareholder value.
The management team and the 12 000 plus employees of Brunswick will remain focused on the following.
Bringing to market a steady cadence of new product introductions aimed at attracting and capturing sales in consumer-friendly features and capabilities.
Expanding capacity throughout all of our businesses engine boat and fitness to meet increasing demands.
Increasing efficiencies and streamlining costs by continuing to operate our businesses as successfully as possible.
And identifying and funding the best opportunities we see for growth as well as managing and adjusting Brunswick's product portfolio as necessary.
Thank you.
And now we will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Hearing from Wedbush Securities we have James Hardiman online please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Good morning.
How are you doing? Okay.
So let's talk about the guidance a little bit here strikingly consistent on a consolidated basis versus what you gave us at the beginning of the year and even what you gave us three months ago.
But maybe walk through the very small components that changed a little bit.
It looks like the Boat segment you're little bit more bearish on that segment versus three months ago; in the Fitness segment maybe a little bit more bullish.
Is that just the acquisition? How should we think about that? Increase cash flow expectations twice now through two quarters.
How should we think about that and what you are going to do with that incremental cash? Look at – between the segments may be more niggling on our part than anything.
We don't have James a significant change of view about our segments.
The only thing about the Boat Group that causes us to be probably conservative as we're look at the remainder of the year is continued concern about Canada.
Canada has been a significant portion of the market for our littler known businesses that include fishing and pontoon as well as our engine business.
And it's just a tough place to be right now.
And you heard as we gave our guidance for the market we think the market for the year could be down as high as low single digits.
We'll certainly do better there but it's a very tough place to be right now and we have a bit of concern for that.
That's the only issue in our guidance that really popped up since we've been talking about 2015 beginning back in January.
The Fitness business has had a really strong first half of the year in Europe.
There are lots of reasons for that.
And something that our team over there has been telling us as we started in to what is now the end of a four quarter cycle that they were going to be able to do.
But as we look at Europe the rate of growth there in Fitness ought to slow a little but our judgment is the rate of growth in the U.S.
will get better in the second half and be offsetting.
So my point is there is a little puts and takes but I will take this opportunity to say I'm incredibly proud of this organization.
We're working against where 40% of our business is outside the U.S.
and as Bill said 20% denominated in non-U.S.
currencies.
Our teams are doing a really great job of winning the unit war if you will wherever they are and in managing our businesses so we can continue to hit growth rates and targeted earnings.
That's a bunch of hard work for our team and in fact as we look from the last call to the call today the dollar continues to strengthen.
And what looks like for some people a bit light on the top line is from my perspective almost all explained by just a continuing strengthening of the dollar.
Our teams are operating marvelously and we don't have much of a change in view between any of our businesses.
I'll let Bill talk a minute about our ever increasing cash flow guidance.
Yes.
James it just is a function of the fact as we went into the year we had a view of working capital and as we've progressed through the first half of the year here and based on our performance we just feel comfortable with guidance there that's a little bit lower and better than what we had started out the year with and it's really nothing more than that.
Okay.
From Citi we have Greg Badishkanian on line.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
If you could just kind of gradual a bit about – hey can you hear me okay? Yes sir.
Absolutely.
Great.
Thanks.
Maybe if you could just kind of walk us through what you've been seeing in the promotional and competitive environment since the beginning of the year just because it's always kind of come up with Harley and Polaris talking about some of the Japanese competitors but you necessarily aren't seeing that.
I'll do this on a global basis.
As we -- most folks want to bring this up Greg in the context of our Outboard Engine segment where we have three great Japanese competitors but one that's significantly larger than the other two.
One of the two smaller ones is being a bit disruptive if you will primarily outside the U.S.
and that's something our teams are dealing with.
And again I think they're doing a really good job there.
As we look at boats especially larger boats I think we're beginning to see the first instances of European boat builders using the weak euro a bit to their advantage as they come in and price.
Again as I look at our business and all of our especially larger boat models particularly new ones because that's where we had a lot of discussion with the street.
Our backlogs at retail continuing to be very strong notwithstanding that.
I think we're doing a little better in cutting down the delivery time from receiving a deposit at retail until the time we deliver but we knew that would happen as the plants have become more efficient building the bigger new product.
So it's not unlike what we would – what we expected as we went into the year.
If anything I'd say our folks on the ground are managing it a little better than I think we even have any right to expect.
So I'm relatively calm and when there's a little choppiness we just deal with it.
Great.
Thank you.
Welcome.
From Sterne Agee we have Lee Giordano on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Just on the boat industry overall can you just update us on your expectations for unit sales this year? And then maybe going forward do you anticipate or are you planning for -- ever getting close to the 300 000 units-a-year level again? Just kind of your thoughts on that would be helpful.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Beginning back I think in 2012 and certainly in 2013 we described sort of through the 2016 time that we thought global unit growth would be in the range of 3% to 5%.
And this year in our prepared remarks we said we think unit growth on a global basis will be toward the bottom end of that range.
And as we look through the first six months of the year unit growth in the U.S.
has been 5%.
And it's right square on top of unit growth in the first half of 2014.
We got the first look at second quarter GDP today and it's a whopping – and I say that very sarcastically 2 point something percent.
And we think as long as GDP growth in the U.S.
with the rest of the world economies and political issues continuing to be as they are that we're gong to be living within this range and this year it's going to have to be in the low end of the range.
And again I want to reiterate this is all right square in the wheelhouse that we said we were going to be living in and operating we've been fully prepared for this.
And again our teams are doing a great job at taking share all around the world.
This age-old question is the market ever going to get back to 300 000 units? My own judgment has always been and it will continue to be that eventually the market will get back to 300 000 units.
I think it's going to take a while and I think when it gets back it's going to be a different mix than it was say prior to 2005 when it was above 300 000 units.
I do not want to be sarcastic but because it's a fair question a good question by any means but within our business many of you will recall we've said for years we built our business to be more profitable with higher margins with a market at 200 000 or less than when the market was 300 000.
What's happened now is in certain segments on a comparative basis for instance the Pontoon segment that market is approaching within that segment being at 300 000 unit overall market level Aluminum Fish is close on its heels the Fiberglass Outboard is growing fast.
And I'd like to say we're the smartest son of the guns in the world but we would say we just work hard and we happen to be in the market where the market's is doing well.
As outboard power continues to be ever more important in the marine market we've been coming to market with some great outboard engines as an example.
So we like to talk about where the market's eventually going to go.
But for us today and for the near future it is a bit of an academic exercise because we have the goal of being more profitable living in the market we are and creating more shareholder value.
Great.
Thank you.
From SunTrust we have Mike Swartz on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hi Mike.
I just wanted to touch on – and I think Mark made some comments around the Outboard Business and this strong growth you're seeing there in particular with some of the new 350 and the 400-horsepower that you introduced in February.
Could you maybe give us a sense of just how successful those have been and maybe frame the longer-term opportunity as we talk about the saltwater market in general? Yes.
I guess I'd frame the answer that we were expecting that when we brought out the 350 and the 400 particularly the 350 that we'd probably see more of the 300-horsepower transitioning up to 350.
And Mike what's actually happened is that our 300 volumes have stayed pretty consistent and yet we're getting some strong 350 there as well with a lot of customers who are putting twins and trips and quads on the back of boats and of course that applies to the saltwater market and that applies to one of our targeted segment.
So we've been real pleased not only with the take-up rate on those new engines but the continued strength that we've had with even like the 300-horsepower offering.
Okay so it sounds like it's actually -- I would add and Mark can correct me if I'm seeing this wrong but I think I'm going to be in the ballpark.
I think these engines are – the great engines are a great piece of this but we've begun to move our outboard saltwater share from high teens so we're now scouting around mid-to high 20% range.
That's correct Dusty.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the fitness side of the business as we think of a broader fitness portfolio with the workplace initiatives and the recent acquisition and kind of the active aging vertical how do you see that evolving over the next three to five years? And maybe you can give us some context to the profitability of businesses in those verticals versus your core fitness business? The acquisitions we've done the new business that we're starting think of those as foundational on which then we will begin to generate growth over and above just for instance the SCIFIT acquisition the revenue we are bringing in.
As we look at product margins and we tend to think of these margins as the gross margin line.
Our view is that everything that's occurring will be similar to the margins that we get on product presently.
So as we get into these businesses they will not be dilutive to the overall fitness margin.
Yes.
I think the only thing that I'd add to that Dusty is it'll tend to be something that happens and migrates over time.
As they come as a portfolio there could be instances especially on the operating margin side where you're a little bit short but then they'll be pulled up in line with the fitness margins over time.
And is that just because you're investing behind the distribution or are there other components to that? Investing in product first.
For instance as we make these acquisitions as I've said the business is a base from which we will be building.
So you will see additional expense as we work on broadening and developing the product line.
That will be the primary mover Mike.
Okay.
Wonderful.
Thanks for the color.
You're welcome.
From Jefferies we have Randy Konik on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey great.
Thanks a lot.
I guess I just want some perspective if we're going to look out a few years here.
I guess first from a perspective of composition of the boating industry.
You've had this explosion in pontoons what have you.
Could you guys give us some feel for how you think the composition of the industry may look different five years from now in terms of particular models? Do you see any strength in your outboard et cetera? Just curious there.
And then I guess if you think about the ratio of used boat sales to new boat sales as it stands today how do you think that ratio kind of changes three years to five years from now? Do you expect the used boat sale market to kind of increase as a ratio to new and that kind of helps serve your acquisition front on the parts and accessory side? I'm trying to get a sense of how you think a few years out from now the new area versus the used area kind of plays out and how that affects the different businesses you are focused on in an acquisition profile? And then just again on the boat side itself what areas of the market do you think are going to more explode versus others? Thanks.
Let me deal with the used new ratio because I can do a little more arithmetic in my head around that.
I think over time the ratio of used to new will decline because the number of late model used boats that are out there will continue to decline.
And as we and many in the industry work hard to narrow the price gap between used and new I think we'll naturally see those two come closer together.
The thing to understand about – and maybe we don't do a good enough job of walking folks through this.
A good portion of our P&amp;A business yes it does serve boats that are in service but we also sell lots of P&amp;A with every boat new boat and engine that we sell.
So our view here is that we are looking for businesses that are much less prone to economic cycles and we see that in P&amp;A; businesses that take advantage of the big installed base that permit us to participate also in the new markets as it occurs; businesses that tend to be higher margin; and then lastly businesses where we think we can do a nice job of consolidating and bringing real change to the industry.
So an example and maybe we overstress this but we quietly went out and formed the distribution business we now call Land and Sea it was in marketing's prepared remarks [indiscernible].
It's Land and Sea Kellogg Diversified and now Bell.
And what we've done is now we're the only folks who can get all this to dealers on a same or next day basis.
And we've talked in the past about how it's transforming dealerships because they don't need to carry as many parts on their shelves for the week.
We can get them to them and they can keep their customers on the water.
Then lastly where we're going with P&amp;A businesses we think there's great adjacencies that we need to be pursuing.
We've talked about many of the parts we build for marine use have applicability in the RV and even motor sport portions of the business.
We've just got to start understanding that and getting good at doing the engineering.
And then we need a distribution base that also serves those adjacencies and that's why we did an acquisition like Bell.
So now back to we think new and used ratio will change over time.
I Randy wouldn't begin to try to predict what the boat makeup in the market is going to be five years from now.
We've invested strongly in both stern drive and outboard engines and we have ourselves in a position that we are ambivalent on a margin basis as to which ones we sell.
That's been very purposeful on our part because we want to be there to serve the market.
If you look at our boat businesses we participate now with great brands in every boat segment and that's been purposeful.
And then our goal is to really keep the pulse of the consumer and be prepared to move quickly as we see changes in consumer behavior.
That's very helpful.
Just one follow-up if possible.
When you look at the boat portfolio and you've done a great job of introducing new models within the portfolio do you feel like the strategy over the next few years would be more about product innovation model innovation within the existing portfolio? Do you feel like there's slight areas of the boat portfolio where you'd want to develop new brands within that existing or in addition to the existing portfolio? Just curious there.
Thanks.
The former not the latter.
Perfect.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
From Wells Fargo Securities we have Tim Conder on line.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Gentlemen a few questions here a couple of them I think will be pretty quick.
On the U.S.
marine industry Dusty you gave us some color 5% to 6% in unit terms your expectation for the year.
Any color on dollars? Then again I think you addressed this in your opening comments but the decline in aluminum shipments all related to what you described what's going on in Canada? Decline unit shipments is all Canada.
In terms of dollars for the industry Tim I don't have a good sense of that but we've set our dollar growth.
What we said is unit growth in the industry in the U.S.
is 5% they're square on top of each other year-over-year.
And my judgment is that ought to continue through the remainder of the year.
We said our dollar growth to be high-single to low-double digits.
As to the rest of the industry I just can't pretend Tim I can give you a good view of that.
That's fair.
Thank you for your honesty as always.
A couple of other things.
We met with you towards the end of May and at that time I think you guys alluded to at that point you were not seeing any of the Europeans be aggressive with price as it related to boats and the Japanese Yamaha in particular the same thing on the engine side.
With the boats though your earlier comments it sounds like you are starting to see some early stages of some maybe using the currency as a competitive weapon if you could expand on that.
And then domestically it appears in general power sports cars or whatever we're seeing the consumer up contenting a lot and in boats whether it be engine or parts and accessories.
Any color you can give on that? Let's do the European boats.
I think it began Tim late second quarter to be something that we are seeing and noticing.
As to whether it's going to get stronger or harder I don't know but the key for us is we've just got to keep bringing all this great new product out and that's why I was careful to highlight Tim earlier that our backlogs at retail continue to be really strong.
And in fact we've seen no change in our backlogs from say middle of the first quarter to now with all this new product we are bringing out and that is in and of itself is fairly remarkable.
Some of this product's been out there and backlogs at retail continue to stay very very strong.
So I'm just tickled to death at that.
Now I've talked so long I forgot your second piece of that question.
The up contenting on power sports but boats in particular.
Clearly that continues to happen.
So it's interesting an aluminum boat will overall cost less than say a yacht but in each of those segments when somebody buys the product they in general want to buy a more expensive in the line with the most features on it.
And it's also helping the outboard business.
People who used the power boat with 60 horsepower are now starting to get up to 75 90 with the same boat.
Okay.
And then gentlemen two last questions.
One for Mark and one for Bill.
Mark any update on the aluminum alloy licensing process how that's gone? You guys made some commentary at the Miami boat show on that.
And then Bill fair to say if it were not for the lack of visibility so to speak in currencies that maybe your earnings outlook may have crept up a little bit? I'll go first Tim.
The milestones that we have established on the alloy we're meeting all of those.
Test and validation things are all coming along nicely.
So we continue to have optimism about that particular program.
Tim I would say that FX is a factor.
I would also say just in general Canadian demand is a factor.
And as we go through the second half of the year we're making an assumption that retail equals wholesale some reluctance to completely commit to that.
There's some chance that perhaps stocking is not at the same levels and our guidance incorporates some of that potential as well.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
From B.
Riley &amp; Company we have Jimmy Baker on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
No problem Jimmy.
First just on Canada.
Are you seeing that headwind kind of equally across the region or more focused in Western Canada? For our business a bit more focused in Western Canada primarily because in Eastern Canada we have a brand that sources a lot locally local labor et cetera and we're much less impact.
In terms of overall demand I would say overall demand is a bit lighter West than East also Jimmy.
Okay.
Thanks.
Just at a high level here as you look across your business units a lot of capacity expansion taking place recently.
Would you term this as an unusual year in that regard or is this something that we're going to be hearing from you consistently from here on out as marine demand recovers and as you launch new products both in the marine and fitness side? I think in our marine businesses when we complete this we ought to be in pretty good shape for a while.
I always say that the place where we've got to be the best prognosticator is in our engine business because we cast tool machine assemble up there.
And it's pretty expensive and it takes a while to get capacity in place.
So once we finish all of our capacity expansions up there we want that to last us a while if you will.
In the boat businesses we tend to cut it a little closer because we've been expanding capacity in our boat business right on through since 2010.
And it's just easier and cheaper and faster to expand boat capacity.
And therefore we can be a little closer to the line.
But we ought to be Jimmy in my judgment when we've completed all this in good shape for a bunch a bunch of quarters I'll say it that way assuming the market continues to perform the way our plan says.
In fitness we have seen expense involved around expansion and I think we probably have – Mark would you say another couple of years of work to get everything done we want some capacity expansion? Yes.
To Dusty's point it's a little easier to add it and can always flex a little with the over time.
So we're in pretty decent shape.
I don't see any significant step function it will be a little bit of continuous maybe to a particular area maybe it's a little bump to assembly or it's a little bump to laminating or something like that on the boat side but I think the big pieces are pretty much in place.
I think Jimmy you tell me if I'm getting to the heart of your question.
The disruption to margins and to leverage that all the expansion we put in place and we've been dealing with and talking about ought to over time be going away for a while.
Yes.
That's very helpful.
And just lastly earlier you talked about shortening the delivery time on some of your larger boat products is that just the natural progression of your recent launches? Is there anything that you're doing or able to do to shorten these launch curves that would allow for let' say higher initial rates of throughput for future launches? I just think it's a natural progression of getting better at building new products and having the plant absorb new products which in many cases is incremental work with the footprint we have today.
I don't want to embarrass Mark but I would also say with Mark here as our Chief Operating Officer he's a heck of a lot better than I've ever been in operations and I think Mark's beginning to have a real impact also in our ability to get up and running if you will Jimmy with new products.
Okay.
Great to hear.
Thanks Dusty.
Thanks Mark.
You're welcome.
From BMO Capital Markets we have Gerrick Johnson on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
My questions are similar to Jimmy's.
Can you just give us an update on your various plan to upgrades including Sykes Creek Edgewater and also Fond du Lac? And then you discussed being better able to deliver some of the product to your dealers.
Can you just discuss some of the big stuff like the 420 Outrage 650 Fly? Last we checked dealers couldn't get your new product until next June or July.
What does the pipeline look there? Okay.
Let me start with the upgrades of no particular order.
But the expansion down at Edgewater on our Boston Whaler that's totally up running products are coming off and meeting all of our expectations in that operation.
Sykes Creek with the 590s they're building we've got boats in the water so we're making all the headway that we really want there.
And when you go up to the Mercury side their biggest thing they've embarked on right now is new things on coatings new EDP system going in and that program will finalize out in 2016.
But it's actually replacing existing capacity that's in the plant by both new technology and incremental volume capabilities.
So all of the major items that we have whether it was Whaler Sykes Creek or the Mercury side we're quite comfortable where those things are at.
I think on the throughput side as Dusty mentioned the delivery times are really trending down and that's because we're getting some dealer inventory on some of the products.
Obviously new things that are out there like the 1921 SPX whether it's stern drive or outboard getting some stuff out there.
When retail sold orders come in we're better able to respond because some of the inventory is able to handle that situation now that we've got some of that in the field.
And on the big boats we've been able to bring the delivery time down a little bit.
But I mean the other part is from the time you start it's like a custom home you're talking about for instance on a 650 it by definition is going to have months and months of lead-time because of the entire process can involved and the complexity on one of those large vessels.
Gerrick we've talked about this before and again I don't want to wear everybody out but it's a point I think it's important to make.
Having a big backlog and a reasonable length of time to deliver boats is very good for both ourselves and our dealers.
We have a big backlog with boats and people are willing to wait let's say a year to get a boat.
The dealer doesn't have to discount and the consumer gets exactly what they want because we can get in early with them and talk about what needs to be in the product rather than build for stock.
We are becoming increasingly confident about the power of our product in the marketplace because while you maybe have to wait a year to get a new 420 Boston Whaler six months ago and you still have to wait a year to get it today but we're delivering them every day and the backlog continues to be just as high today as it was in the past and we're all making more money and consumers are happier.
From my perspective the delivery date is not that big of an issue.
The key is to make sure we continue with the backlog with the delivery dates we have and they're continuing very strong.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Thanks Dusty.
Thanks Mark.
You're welcome.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Joseph Spak on line.
Please go ahead.
Joseph Spak your line is open.
Hi.
I realize we're running over so just a couple of quick ones hopefully some quick answers.
Just to clarify that European boat FX comment are you seeing actions from competitors to gain distribution or to move boats that are out there? Moving boats that are coming in.
Okay.
But not necessarily new? They're just running both through the existing distribution and we're beginning to see lower pricing.
Okay.
Second one just on the boat guidance.
So high-single – on the top line high-single digits was low double digits.
The margin previously equal to less than and now just less than.
So I guess the question is if you can still do low-double digits why is the margin is still a little bit worse? Is that the Canada impact you mentioned or is there something else we're missing? That's the big majority of it is the Canadian impact yes.
Final question from me.
The boat price mixed comment where you talk about wholesales having a bigger impact than price for the year? Is that second half of the year comment or for the full year? Second half.
Okay.
Any color for the full year? Bill can you help me on that? I would say it's a little bit more balanced.
First half of the year we're obviously over-weighted towards ASP versus unit volume.
Right.
And then you have tougher comps in the back half so could that actually be down or sort of just more – pretty modest? It's pretty specific.
I would say it's flat to more modest.
Okay.
And then last one just on the marine margin commentary that one's a little bit maybe less granular than some of the other segments but with only a couple of months left of meaningful sales can we get anything more specific than solid improvement? No.
Figured I'd try.
Thanks a lot guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
At this time we will now turn it back to Dusty McCoy for final remarks.
Thanks for those who've held on for a very long call.
I apologize for that and probably ought to apologize for the length of some of my answers.
Bruce is looking at me like yes.
Thanks everyone for their interest.
We're really happy with where we are; feel like we had a great quarter and looking forward to finishing out the year strong.
So thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Brunswick Corporation's 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; Mark Schwabero President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I'd like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would like to also remind you that figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty.
Thanks Bruce and good morning everyone.
We've had a nice third quarter.
In fact our third quarter represents the fifth consecutive quarter that constant currency revenue growth rates have exceeded 10%.
And our 2015 outlook continues to reflect another year of strong earnings growth free cash flow and investment in our businesses.
Reported revenue in the quarter increased by 6%.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased by 11%.
The strongest growth rates were reported by fiberglass outboard boats and fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats.
This growth also included a solid performance by marine parts and accessories outboard engines fitness equipment and aluminum boats.
Our gross margin increased 60 basis points compared to the prior year.
Operating expenses increased by 1% and were 16.7% of sales.
As we detailed in our July call we forecasted that Q3 operating earnings to reflect incremental operating leverage in the low-20% range.
Leverage in the quarter in fact was approximately 35% on an as-adjusted basis.
This outperformance in leverage was primarily caused by lower operating expenses compared to our guidance as we benefited from favorable mark-to-market adjustments to our compensation accruals lower spending and retirement expenditures in the future periods which we did without sacrificing spending associated with our long-term growth plans.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 22% versus prior year with operating margins of 11.7% up a full 160 basis points compared to last year.
Continuing down the P&amp;L adjusted pre-tax earnings increased by 25% and diluted EPS as adjusted was $0.77 reflecting a 22% increase over the prior-year period.
Our third quarter sales performance reflects solid market demand as well as contributions from recent investments in new product launches throughout our organization.
On a constant currency basis sales in our combined Marine segments increased by 11% while our Fitness segment increased by 9%.
From a geographic perspective consolidated U.S.
sales increased by 14%.
On a constant currency basis international sales increased by 5% with European sales up 7% and rest-of-the-world sales up 4%.
Adjusted operating earnings were $115.8 million for the quarter an increase of $21.2 million compared to 2014.
Our adjusted operating margin of 11.7% reflects a 160 basis point increase compared to the prior year.
Let's take just a moment to provide our perspective on the marine market.
In the first nine months of 2015 the U.S.
fiber boat industry grew 5.3% based on preliminary data as once again outboard boats demonstrated the highest growth rates.
The third quarter which on average comprises about 30% of the year in retail reflected a growth rate of approximately 4.8%.
Our initial assumption for 2015 U.S.
industry growth reflected a rate comparable with that of 2014 and as you can see from this chart this assumption continues to be reasonable.
Now I'll provide some color on marine markets outside the United States and let's start with Europe.
Overall year-to-date retail boat and engine market volume was up by mid-single digit percentage and it's expected to continue at this rate through the end of the year.
Regions experiencing solid to strong growth included most of Scandinavia Spain Italy the UK and Germany.
The French market was relatively flat.
The Eastern European and Russian markets which are more important engines than the boats continued to see declines.
Because most Brunswick marine products sold in Europe is priced in local currency the strengthening of U.S.
dollar hasn't affected retail demand.
However the negative effects of translation are lowering margins on product not manufactured in the region.
In Canada third quarter retail was down by an approximately high-single digit percent following a difficult first half.
This was primarily due to the continued strength of U.S.
dollar and the slowing economy in the oil-driven portions of Central and Western Canada.
As we stated on the last call this second half weakness was expected and the dealers are now mostly selling product purchased at a stronger U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
For the full year we're planning for overall demand in Canada to be down high-single to low-double digit percent.
In the Asia Pacific region retail market demand was down and we expect this to continue through the remainder of the year.
And then finally in South America the retail market continues to be down double digits compared to the same period a year earlier.
The weakening real has severely limited boats being imported into Brazil from the United States or Europe.
Brunswick brands manufactured in Brazil have continued to pick up market share but we're still challenged for sales into an overall weak retail boat market.
For the full year we're planning for the overall South American market to be down double digits.
So in summary global market unit demand for the year is trending toward an increase closer to the lower end of our long-term growth range of 3% to 5%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark for a closer look at our segment results.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment where third quarter sales on a constant currency basis increased by 8%.
Overall acquisitions contributed 2% to the segment's year-over-year growth.
From a geographic perspective sales in the U.S.
were up 7% reflecting increases in all major product categories.
Excluding acquisitions our U.S.
sales increased approximately 6%.
Sales to Mercury's European customers excluding currency changes were flat as modest sales growth were offset by weakness in Russia.
Rest-of-World sales on a constant currency basis increased by 16% which included the benefit from the BLA acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2015.
Performance of this region included the impact of market weakness in Brazil.
For the nine months the segment's sales on a constant currency basis increased by 11%.
Overall acquisitions contributed 4% to the segment's year-to-date growth.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported solid overall sales growth in the quarter which included strong contributions for Mercury's 7590 and 115 horsepower four strokes which were introduced in the second quarter of 2014 as well as growth from the new 350 and 400 horsepower engines launched in Q1 of 2015.
Our new four stroke engine platforms are rapidly replacing our two-stroke offerings.
These new engines have led to market share increases within these higher horsepower categories including gains in targeted salt water repower and commercial markets.
This shift in outboard mix along with market share gains are creating short-term challenges for our manufacturing footprint but we are addressing these with our ongoing capacity expansion actions.
Sterndrive engine sales continued to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand trends.
However our recently introduced purpose-built marine engines are starting to have a positive impact on our already strong position in this market.
Additional offerings including the new 6.2-liter V-8 300 horsepower and 350 horsepower models were introduced in early Q3.
These engines leveraged the investment from the previously introduced MerCruiser 4.5-liter V-6 platform for 200 horsepower and 250 horsepower engines.
Mercury's parts and accessory businesses delivered solid sales growth during the quarter with gains in most major markets.
Revenue benefited from acquisitions new product launches and market share gains.
In addition the continued sales records achieved by our portfolio of distribution businesses including Land 'N' Sea Kellogg Marine Diversified Products Bell and BLA all demonstrated their ability to deliver on superior product availability on time delivery and product category expansions.
As anticipated we've seen year-over-year growth rates in the first half of 2015 outpace our expectations for growth in the second half of 2015.
These differences in growth rates between the first half and second half are largely due to just different weather patterns between the two years.
Our growth expectations for the full year remain in line with the planned growth rates for this business.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 10% compared to last year's third quarter.
Operating margins were at 17.4% 90 basis points higher than the prior-year quarter.
The improvements in operating earnings reflected higher sales including a favorable product mix benefit from the recently launched outboard products in our parts and accessories growth.
Cost reductions and savings related to sourcing initiatives also contributed to the increase.
Partially offsetting these positive factors were the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange.
For the nine months operating margins were 16.8% 70 basis points higher than last year.
Turning to the Boat segment third quarter revenues on a constant currency basis increased by 19% with strong growth rates in fiberglass outboard boats and fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats as well as solid gains in aluminum boats.
On a year-to-date basis our boat brands continue to make progress in gaining share.
In the U.S.
which represented over three-fourths of the segment's sales sales increased by 29%.
In the quarter European sales on a constant currency basis increased by 28% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of new products including larger more fully featured products by our European manufactured outboard boat brands.
Our U.S.
brands are also doing well with their European manufactured products.
Rest of world sales on a constant currency basis decreased by 17% reflecting the weaker demand in Asia-Pacific Canada and Brazil.
So in the first nine months our overall Boat revenues on a constant currency basis increased by 15%.
In the third quarter Brunswick's global retail unit sales decreased by 1% compared to the prior year.
U.S.
retail units increased by 6% in the quarter.
Global wholesale unit shipments increased by 11%.
This increase in wholesale unit shipments compares to the Boat segment's constant currency sales increase of 19% as revenues also benefited from a favorable shift in mix.
For the nine months global retail unit sales increased by 4% compared to the prior year.
U.S.
retail units during the same period increased by 8%.
Global wholesale unit shipments were also up by 4% versus an increase in dollar sales of 12%.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter with 27 weeks of boats on hand measured on a trailing 12-month basis and this compares to 27 weeks at the end of Q3 2014.
Unit pipelines for aluminum products are up modestly compared to last year due to an expanded distribution network and new product introductions.
Total fiberglass unit pipelines are down versus the prior year.
Our plan assumes that the wholesale unit growth rate for the full year will approximate the retail unit growth rate.
Our plan also assumes that benefits from higher average selling prices resulting from mix will continue into the fourth quarter as year-over-year growth rates for our larger fiberglass boats remains strong.
In addition the current pipeline levels are appropriate given our growth expectations in the various boat categories and we continue to be comfortable with the overall levels.
The Boat segment's third quarter adjusted operating earnings increased $12.5 million when compared to the prior year.
Operating margins were 2.4%.
This reflects a 500-basis point increase over last year's third quarter as adjusted result.
The operating performance in the quarter benefited from higher sales a favorable product mix as well as savings related to sourcing initiatives and cost reductions.
For the nine months operating margins were 3.7% 100 basis points higher when compared to the prior year's as adjusted results.
On a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 9% for the quarter.
Growth resulted from higher sales to U.S.
health clubs and local and Federal governments as well as sales gains in international markets particularly in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.
In July we completed the acquisition of SCIFIT a leading provider of exercise equipment tailored to the needs of active aging seniors as well as the medical wellness and rehabilitation market.
SCIFIT contributed about 3% to the segment's growth rate in the quarter.
The segment continues to benefit from new product introductions in all regions with this quarter representing its 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
So for the first nine months on a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 8% and the SCIFIT acquisition contributed 1% to the segment's year-to-date growth.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter increased by 7% as the favorable impact from higher sales cost reductions and savings related to sourcing initiatives were partially offset by the impact from foreign exchange.
Operating margins were at 14% 30 basis points higher than the prior year.
For the nine months operating margins were 13.8% 10 basis points lower than last year.
As a reminder the year-to-date results reflect the absence of the favorable warranty adjustment which occurred in the first quarter of 2014.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill for some additional comments on the financials starting with a consolidated perspective on how foreign exchange has affected our results.
Thanks Mark.
I would like to start with discussing the impact that foreign currency is having on our sales comparisons.
As a reminder our most material exposures include sales in euros Canadian dollars Brazilian real and Australian dollars.
In the third quarter consolidated sales comparisons were negatively affected by approximately $38 million or 4.1% which was largely in line with our previous guidance.
For the full year we are estimating a 4% impact on year-over-year comparisons.
The impact on operating earnings in the third quarter was approximately $6 million.
For the full year we are estimating that operating earnings comparisons will be negatively affected by approximately $30 million or 8%.
This estimate includes the impact of translation on all sales and costs transacted in a currency other than the U.S.
dollar benefits from hedging activities of $12 million and pricing actions in certain international markets in response to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Our estimate also reflects performance through nine months that was in line with our previous expectations and incorporates our normal increases in hedges against Q4 transactions.
Additionally estimates for the full year assume that rates remain consistent with current rates for the remainder of the year.
Regarding our tax provision our year-to-date effective book tax rate for 2015 as adjusted was 34.3% through the end of the third quarter versus 34% through the end of the second quarter.
This 30 basis point increase was mostly due to additional losses we are experiencing in Brazil resulting from currency losses and a weak business environment.
The effect of the increase in the year-to-date rate was recorded in Q3 which resulted in an effective tax rate as adjusted of 34.9% for the quarter.
Our effective book tax rate for the full year 2015 guidance remains at 34% which excludes any benefit from the potential extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit which would lower the rate by approximately 1.5% for the year.
Our estimated effective cash tax rate for 2015 reflects a low-teen percent level.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
Year-to-date cash provided by continuing operating activities was $240.7 million an increase of $113.3 million versus the prior year.
As planned pension contributions were approximately $73 million in the first nine months of the year an increase versus the prior year due to timing of our 2015 pension contributions.
Normal seasonal changes in balances resulted in a use of cash in our primary working capital accounts and totaled approximately $82 million which is substantially improved from the prior year.
The biggest changes occurred in inventory which increased by $45 million accrued expenses decreased by $42 million accounts and notes receivable increased by $11 million and accounts payable increased by $16 million.
Year-to-date our working capital performance has improved versus the prior year due to better inventory management and timing of collections.
We continue to anticipate a seasonal liquidation of working capital over the balance of the year.
Year-to-date free cash flow was $131 million versus approximately $49 million in the prior year an increase of $82 million.
Capital spending was approximately $99 million which included investments in new products in all of our businesses as well as capacity expansion projects.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments in growth including acquisitions as well as enhanced shareholder returns.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $654 million.
The change from year-end 2014 reflects year-to-date free cash flow as well as cash returned to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends of approximately $100 million and $35 million respectively.
Also during the year acquisitions totaled approximately $19 million.
In addition the change in cash reflects net proceeds received from the sale of the Bowling Products business.
Let me conclude with some updated outlook comments on certain items that will impact both our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2015.
Our estimates of these items are largely unchanged from our previous guidance.
I would like to provide an update on our share repurchase activity and shares outstanding.
Our estimate of average diluted shares outstanding for the full year of approximately $94.3 million reflects continued execution of our $200 million share repurchase program initiated in Q4 of 2014.
Over the last four quarters we have purchased approximately $120 million of stock including $40 million in the third quarter.
To-date we have repurchased about 2.4 million shares of stock under the program.
On the cash flow side our plan reflects approximately $70 million of cash contributions to our pension plans which includes an amount that will be used to fund the lump sum benefit buyouts in 2015.
Almost all these contributions were funded in the first half to maximize returns and reduce our pension expense.
Our current plan anticipates working capital changes to result in a modest usage of cash of $10 million to $30 million and capital expenditures of approximately 4% of sales.
We plan to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in excess of $200 million which reflects the improvement in our year-to-date performance versus 2014.
And now I'd like to turn the call back to Dusty to continue our outlook comments.
Thank you Bill.
Our overall operating plans and assumptions for 2015 remain consistent with those we communicated on our last call.
We continue to target 2015 to be another year of strong earnings growth with outstanding free cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects approximately 7% sales growth which includes benefit from the success of our new products market share gains and the continuation of solid market growth in the United States and Europe and completed acquisitions partially offset by weakness in certain international marine markets.
For the full year we anticipate a slight improvement in gross margin levels to solid gains in operating margins.
Our earnings growth in the second half of the year reflects savings related to sourcing initiatives and cost reductions as well as less challenging FX comparisons.
Earnings will continue to benefit from managing costs for initiatives such as Lean Six Sigma and by implementing programs to improve product costs through supply chain initiatives and manufacturing efficiencies.
We will also continue to see cost reductions resulting from favorable commodity pricing trends.
As a result of ongoing growth investments full year operating expenses will increase but as a percentage of sales are expected to be lower than 2014 levels and slightly below 17%.
As a result with three-fourths of the year behind us we're narrowing our 2015 EPS guidance as adjusted to a range of $2.80 to $2.85 reflecting a growth rate of 16% to 18%.
If we turn to our segments the 2015 forecast reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine segment.
Specifically we're planning for revenue growth at the high-end of the mid-single digit percent range with a solid improvement in operating margins despite currency headwinds.
Our plan continues to reflect a stable pricing environment for our larger horsepower engine business.
Looking at our Boat segment our plan assumes that we continue to successfully execute our large fiberglass boat strategy.
We're targeting 2015 annual revenue growth in the low-double digit range and we expect operating earnings to be up with full year margins approaching 3%.
In our Fitness segment our plan is based on continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
In 2015 we're targeting revenue growth in the mid-single digit range.
We're planning for margins to be slightly up at Life Fitness for full year.
In conclusion I'd like to remind you that on November 10 we're having our Investor Day at the New York Stock Exchange.
At this meeting we will be presenting a new three-year strategic plan which reflects financial targets through 2018.
We remain very confident in our ability to generate strong earnings growth and free cash flow in the next three years and look forward to discussing with you our plans in New York.
Thank you and now we'll be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
We're not hearing anything operator on our end.
Our first question comes from James Hardiman.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Couple of questions...
Hi James.
Inc.</span></strong> How're you doing? Good.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Good quarter.
A couple questions here on the operating margin front.
First a little bit of a clarification you talked about really good mid-30%s type operating leverage in the quarter and how that was better than what you initially expected.
Help us tease out how much of that was timing of items that are going to hit us in the fourth quarter and how much of that was just better performance versus what you expected? This is Bill James.
I would say when you take a look at the operating expense out performance you kind of think of it as a third of it that was re-timed into the fourth quarter and the other two-thirds are things that happened that we had anticipated.
The largest was benefits from marking to market some of our comp accruals that are tied to equity prices.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then just help with...
I think it's fair to say – we would say that most of it is good performance really good performance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I guess that leads to my next question.
2015 is sort of the tale of two halves when you think about operating margins right first half of the year relatively poor second half of the year really strong.
You average out in that low to mid-20%s type range that you guys have talked about.
Understand why the first half saw a hit from incremental investments and maybe there's some one-time benefits in the second half.
But help me understand why as we move into 2016 and a lot of the investments that you guys have made that haven't really been contributing a whole of revenues help me understand why next year won't look a lot more like the second half where you saw really good or you're seeing really good leverage versus what we saw in the first half? Well the one thing we've promised ourselves going on in this call is we were not going to be talking about 2016.
In a couple of weeks James we're going to be detailing in real depth how the company is going to look 2016 to 2018 and I think everybody's going to be really happy with what we've got to say.
But can we just kick that forward to the 10th? Inc.</span></strong> Absolutely.
Perfectly fair.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> My apologies.
You don't need to apologize.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe we can talk just a little bit about the Fitness segment.
If you talked about it in the prepared remarks I apologize but talk about end (33:15) movement a little bit.
You've got – you had your first set of products that came out in I believe early August and then you had some stuff late September.
Are you producing any material revenues there? How should we think about the margins of that business? And is that at all material this year? Or is it more 2016 and beyond? Not material this year in either revenue or margins.
Margins will be strong as we sell product and I think as we look at real benefit to the business again this is something we'll discuss in our November 10 meeting but I think real affect on the business will be after 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
That's all from me.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
And the next question comes from Joseph Spak.
Hi this is Ritapa Ray signing in for Joseph Spak.
Just a couple of questions I think you used Volkswagen engine blocks for the diesel side of the engines.
So to the extent diesel automobile start going away do you need to consider building your own engine blocks similar to what you did on the gasoline side? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> This is Mark.
The answer to the question is that the engines we buy first of all aren't involved in anything relative to their situation.
So there's really no need to have a concern about our situation and supply with Volkswagen for those engines.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the second one on the Fitness side you're looking for – to grow organically and inorganically and I want to focus on your inorganic side for a second.
So do you need to look for distribution in that area as well? Can you help me – distribution around which inorganic growth? Distribution of – if you acquired products to distribute them as well.
Do you need to build that in? Or is it just – do you have the distribution and you'd be fine just buying inorganically? It's going to depend on where we go inorganically.
As you – again we're going to talk about this on November 10 but as we move into adjacent areas we will be inheriting great distribution in some cases and in others we may want to beef it up or roll it in to our distribution.
And I'm assuming you're not talking about retail? No.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Quite welcome.
Our next question comes from Mike Swartz.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hi Mike.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey just wanted to touch on the Engine margins this quarter.
I know we're going to get more color on kind of how you think about margins longer-term in that business here in a few weeks.
But I guess the number was really surprising to the positive and understanding you had I think in the third quarter last year kind of a big true-up I believe it was on a warranty expense.
So in light of that I mean what – I guess what's going on in that business that's making profitability look that good? Is it just product mix mixing more towards P&amp;A? Or is there something structurally that's more profitable? I mean leveraging some of the investments you've made in engine blocks or the outboard platform.
Just – I guess help us understand that a little better.
All of that? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah all of it.
Look our Engine guys are doing a magnificent job.
Every piece of new product we come out with and we keep stressing this is higher margin more profitable and bringing more throughput to our plants than anything it replaced.
The P&amp;A business is continuing to do grow – do really nicely and the interesting thing with our Engine guys is our growing P&amp;A business we're reporting record growth in the distribution part of that business which tends to be a bit lower margin.
But we're doing a great job in the P&amp;A business holding margins and growing the top line.
And then we've got to give the folks who work and live in our operations in the Engine business all the credit in the world.
They're after cost they're after Lean Six Sigma we are benefiting from commodity price decreases.
I can just keep adding up a whole list of things Mike but when you do it it's just all of it and the guys are doing a great job of taking advantage of every opportunity they have.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just remind me in the Engine business when does the labor pact run through? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh it's 2021 I think.
It's either 2020 or 2021.
It's a long way off.
2021 is the date.
It's a long way off Mike.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then just following up I think Mark something you said about some of the share gains you're seeing in some of the higher horsepower outboard models that you've brought out over the past six months to nine months.
Could you maybe give us a little more color behind that quantification where you think that share can go? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we'll talk a little more when we're together on the 10th about where share can go but what we've said in the past is that our – taking the saltwater category we've been in the high-teens and we've said we've been moving that into mid to upper mid-20%s right now.
So we're clearly seeing some nice growth there and we'll talk more on the 10th about what the runway looks like ahead of that.
I would add so people didn't miss any of Mark's comments because it was fairly poignant my judgment is we'd have even more share gains if we continue to make engines at the rate that we're seeing demand.
And our new engines are being so successful 350s 400s as an example that we've been surprised at the rate of demand.
And we're going to be able to take care of it because fortunately we've been working hard on increasing capacity.
But interestingly it has been a bit of a drawback for us.
So as spectacular as the Engine business is looking right now once we're able to get all the new capacity online our ability to do better in these even larger engines is going to increase.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And the following question comes from Lee Giardano.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could provide an update on how the large Sea Rays are doing out there in the market today and how are you doing on capacity in terms of manufacturing? Are you able to keep up with demand at this point? And what's the pipeline look like or the backlog so to speak? Thanks.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We're quite pleased with how we're doing on the large product and principally what we're talking about there are the L650s Fly and L590s Fly those that are in our L-Class.
Our production is coming along nicely coming out of both our Palm Coast and Sykes Creeks facilities those are running.
They're not really particularly the L650 Fly really isn't a pipeline or inventory boat it's a lot more about retail sold that goes into production there.
But our backlogs are there the production's coming along quite nicely.
And we're pleased with what we're seeing in the Large Boat segment.
Great.
And it seems like there's been a rebound in aluminum.
Is there anything in particular driving that improvement? Thanks.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're talking about aluminum fish boats? Yes.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> A lot of – I mean a lot of that is just – and again we'll talk a bit more on the 10th.
But the – it's a lot about the fishing and people wanting to do that.
It's a category of consumers that rely a lot about their view of the economy and what's really happening out there.
And the other part is is we're seeing the catch up between the retail and the wholesale activity in that segment.
So the net-net is the consumer there is feeling good and making purchases and secondly just the whole retail/wholesale mix piece coming together.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Just back to the engines for a moment.
I wonder if you could just update us on the expansion of your dealer network in the saltwater markets.
And also are you holding your market share in the freshwater markets at this point? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The answer is yes on the freshwater piece.
We're doing quite well there across all the categories whether you're talking about aluminum fish pontoon et cetera.
So we're holding the share there.
Part of what's the dealer expansion really gets a lot too as we get on more and more OEM products we – those OEM products bring us into more and more dealer locations.
So that has a lot to do with how we're picking up distribution.
And so with the V-8 offering and your purpose-built I guess that bodes well more for 2016 at this point for the OEMs? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
We're just starting – you're going to see more impacts from that as we go into 2016 and beyond.
Okay.
And what drives growth? A lot of the new products are coming out kind of above fleet average margins as you indicated to an earlier question.
I'm just – do we continue that kind of growth through – I realize you're going to talk about this at the analyst meeting so maybe is there anything you can say about the extent to which it drives growth in 2016 and beyond at this point? Or are we really just kind of seeing a surge that might not sustain? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well in terms of the margin question we've talked about it a lot in the past that as we bring out new products we want them to cost less than the products they're replacing.
The other part is some of the – the new products are getting featured up fairly heavily.
So as you look at a 420 Outrage the option contents on that or even on some of our larger fiberglass boats tends to be as it features up a little you'll pick up some margins on that as well.
So it's a combination of what we're doing on cost and the content that's on those boats for some of the margin improvements.
Okay.
Thanks.
Congrats on the progress.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from Gerrick Johnson.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Was there incremental costs from the expansion capacity in the Engine segment? Or was that negatively affecting profitability there? Or have we kind of lapped a significant portion of that so now it's more incremental the other way? Thanks.
Hey Gerrick this is Bill.
There is a steady increase of fixed cost increases going on as we add capacity but we're very much layering in capacity costs as sales and volume go up.
So there's not some big step that's happening.
It's happening incremental every year.
So while it is a factor and it's something we've got to cover it's not a big step function.
Okay.
Great.
And after second quarter you kind of implied that ASP would be growing more slowly because of things like SPX (45:42).
It doesn't seem to be happening that way.
So what's your new outlook for ASPs? Should we think that they continue to grow faster than units? I think if you take a look at our comments on the Marine segment and specifically boats it implies that ASPs now we're expecting them to be a little bit better than we had as we ended the second quarter.
And that has a lot to do with the success of the larger products and just a little bit of a tweak in production of some of the smaller.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I think we're seeing people option up a little more...
That's correct.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...in product Gerrick.
All right.
Thanks guys.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Rommel Dionisio.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A question on the Engine business.
As you guys have successfully captured market share in a variety of categories these last several quarters have you seen anything unusually new in the last quarter in terms of a competitor response whether that be pricing or promotions or discounting or anything like that? Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're seeing maybe a little more promotional activity than we've seen in the past but Rommel I wouldn't say it's significant.
But there is a little more activity out there but we're not seeing anything on the strategic pricing side we're not seeing anything significant there from a real shift in behavior or patterns.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
I look forward to seeing you all in a couple of weeks.
Thank you.
Same here.
Next question comes from Craig Kennison.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Dusty I wanted to follow up on a comment you made regarding the strength in your high horsepower engines.
It sounds like you maybe lost some opportunity to sell product just because you can't build it fast enough.
Are those sales deferred? Or are they simply lost for the period and you hope to regain share next time? Hard to know but our judgment is probably deferred in view of the quality of the engines we have and the amount of backlog that we have but it's impossible to know if one has truly lost the sale but we've got a very strong backlog in our larger engines.
It seems to be maintaining and it's something we're working our way through as we increase capacity.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Is that backlog you discussed an OEM backlog? Or is it a consumer backlog? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No Craig it'd really be an OEM background because the bulk of – the vast majority of those engines are going into new boat production.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
So I would assume that the OEM could wait for off season and you'd get a chance to sell those units at some point in the next few months? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's where it may move the production of the boat out a little bit.
And as Dusty mentioned it's hard to tell if it's loss but in general it might shift the production out a little bit.
The only case if a consumer said gee I don't want to wait then it could get loss.
But again the time of the year and the season with in in general it just probably moves production out a little bit.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
And then on the in-movement strategy could you discuss what you're doing from a distribution standpoint given that's a new channel for you this office fitness market? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
It's really going through multiple channels Craig.
It can go through our current Life Fitness channel of in-movement product.
It also is product that we've got out on our e-commerce site and capability there to go to a consumer direct.
Third area is working through folks like wellness providers and corporations who pull those products then are part of their wellness initiatives and things with corporations or others.
So I mean the point is there is multiple channels that are either referencing part of within the distribution of that product.
And I guess Craig one of the things that we'll be working on will be distributing through office furniture.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Some of the new products Craig that we showed at – when we rolled things out at the end of September some of that newer product will actually pull in folks like office furniture.
It will also pull in some distribution literally coming through design groups since they're working on new buildings offices they'll be a source of referencing and sales as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Tim Conder.
Thank you.
A couple of questions and I apologize if I missed one of these here.
I got briefly disconnected.
Any comment gentlemen that you gave or could give on the U.S.
retail sales in dollars for boats? And then Mercury whether that's organic or in total.
Tim the U.S.
retail dollar is an awfully hard metric to come up with in total.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then just – I know it's been touched on a couple times here.
But again it sounds like you're fairly short on some of the larger horsepower outboard 4 strokes and again I just want to clarify here.
It sounds like you should have the capacity incremental capacity ready to go by Q1.Q2.
Is that correct? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're raising – I mean a couple comments.
You said incrementally short.
I mean we're producing high volumes every day.
The point is that the rate of demand is a little higher right now and/or the rate of demand is equal to production but it makes it a little tougher to really make a dent in the backlog.
I want to make sure you kind of clarify that.
We're running and delivering product every day out to our customers.
In terms of the capacity that comes on we'll have some of that coming on the – at the end of the fourth quarter and that's been our plan to really have that in place by year-end.
And we're continuing to move along nicely in that area.
So we'll be seeing some uplift as we go into early 2016.
Okay.
And then along that lines switching to boats.
Two questions there.
Dealers seem to continue to say you're short product.
Are you basically leaving the market collectively slightly short there to minimize discounting and maximize margins? Or any additional color there.
And then any tone or change of trends from August to now given the market volatility and any other macroeconomic cross-currents that we've seen over the last two to three months? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'd start with a comment on you're the first question Tim.
When you're bringing out new product and in particular some of that is white space product you communicate you're coming out with something new and exciting and you create a demand for it and I think when people are saying gee we just can't get enough product it's basically – it's not a case where we're limiting or not a case where we're trying to your example on the margin – it's basically a case where you try to create that demand and then fill the demand.
Secondly some of our white space product really isn't inventory boats like the Whaler 420 the Sea Rays I've talked they (54:19) really aren't product you want.
So obviously when a dealer gets a retail order he'd like to deliver it tomorrow and that retail order goes into the system and starts the bill process.
So it just takes a little longer.
I wouldn't say we're limiting supply.
It's just the nature of some of the exciting new products we're bringing out and the nature of some of them being white space.
In terms of trends we're seeing in the market there really isn't – I wouldn't say there's anything new since we've talked in the August timeframe.
Okay.
Okay.
And then...
Tim I'm settling in here (55:00) if I could just interrupt.
We made a comment a year or so ago that what we wanted to become was boring.
We're very proud of the fact we're settling in to be pretty damn boring.
It doesn't matter what happens in the marketplace.
We're starting to deliver 15% to 20% pre-tax operating growth year after year after year.
You're beginning to see EPS growth in high teens year after year.
And we talked a lot about how we changed the cyclical nature of our business how we've managed capacity how we've managed costs.
So whereas in years past it would have been something we all would have been wringing our hands about looking at macroeconomic conditions.
We are much more sanguine today about those.
And we have great confidence in our ability to operate handle whatever comes at us and just keep putting up the numbers.
And I think this year is a perfect example of that.
We're getting whacked 4% off the topline by FX.
As Bill detailed $30 million in earnings and we're putting up our numbers and growing margins.
So as we look at ourselves we are becoming quite proud of the fact we're a pretty dam boring company.
We just now start putting it up and we worry a lot less about what's happening out there.
Well congrats on that.
Again a great quarter great execution and boring is good.
If I may two other small questions here.
Mark any update on the aluminum alloy I know it's kind of a thing you guys have been working on for a while some things going positive with some OEM potential clients? Any update there? And then any visibility when we could potentially start seeing a little bit of that royalty stream in the P&amp;L? And then lastly Bill – and I apologize if I missed this – if the R&amp;D tax credit is reinstated what level of benefit would we see on a full-year basis.
Thank you gentlemen.
I'll go first.
It's about a point-and-a-half Tim.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And on the alloy situation we've expanded got a couple more people who are interested in what we are doing.
But the test results validation and everything Tim are right on schedule right per the plan.
You are not going to see really anything meaningful this year or early next year.
But it's still an opportunity area for us as the development and test and validation comes to fruition.
So potentially late 2016 would be the earliest we could potentially see something? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That would be the earliest.
And think of model years and new cars and when those kind of things go on it'd be somewhere later in the year.
Okay.
Well gentlemen congrats again on the boring results.
Thanks Tim.
Our next question comes from Joe Hovorka.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
A couple of quick questions.
First your global retail I think you said was down one.
What was the industry for global retail? We don't know.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I said lower end of 3% (58:39)...
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
You said 3 minus 3? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Quarter (58:46).
Look we're saying for the year that the global demand will be say 3% thereabouts.
It is difficult for us to really tell you on a quarter-by-quarter basis Joe.
And if I were to hazard something it would just be a guess which I don't really want to do.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I would assume you're gaining share though I guess I was getting at in the third quarter globally? Yeah we're very comfortable we're gaining share...
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
But it's clear you could see it from the U.S.
numbers but I just wanted to make sure that was true for international as well.
Yeah understand.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And then I know you've talked about – all year you said you wanted to ship one-to-one in boats and of course you under-shipped in the first half and now we've over-shipped here in the third quarter and we're pretty much one-to-one at this point.
So two questions one are you still on one-to-one for the full year 2015? And then also did you expect the gap to be that wide in the third quarter minus 1% at retail and a plus 11% at wholesale? Or did that change throughout the quarter? No.
Right on plan.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Right on plan and we will finish one-to-one.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's all I had guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Baker.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Actually just a natural follow up to the last couple.
So just given the disparity between the strength of the domestic market and what's going on abroad could you maybe parse out the dealer pipeline domestically versus international? And I guess within that I'm looking for some color on international channel inventory but also wondering if you actually took fiberglass units out of the domestic dealer pipeline? No we've got visibility in the international pipeline Jimmy and it's not – they're right where they need to be.
We've been adjusting them as we've gone along and we don't have any work to do there.
Okay.
And the statement that's in your slide that your fiberglass units were down year-over-year.
Is that true if you looked at just the domestic dealer pipeline? Yes.
It's true around the world.
Okay.
And then lastly could you maybe just speak to the financial health of your international dealers or distributors that are serving some of the more challenged markets? Are you anticipating much turnover there or needing to take any significant action on your part? Not at all.
Just a broader comment.
As we saw the dealer network become more viable more business savvy more focused on the future better at managing inventories et cetera in the U.S.
we've – and that's all we've generally talked about.
We've also seen that outside the U.S.
And in particular the places that we look most would be Europe South America particularly Brazil and Australia.
And we have worked hand in hand with our dealers in all those regions as the sales have fluctuated many which caused by currency et cetera.
And we're working really well with them and we've got no real issue at all.
Even maybe five years ago when we've gone through the recession we still from time to time had big dealer issues pop up where we'd have big dollars on the table.
It's just not happening anymore.
And if we have we've been able to take care of it with minimal financial impact.
Thanks very much.
Very helpful.
You're welcome.
Our final question comes from Randal Konik.
Hi.
This is Rachel Barnes for Randy.
I – a few of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to follow-up on some earlier comments made.
Can you provide an update on what you're seeing in the promotional and competitive environment particularly in the European boat market? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I guess there's – and I'll let Dusty add on to it a little here.
But I mean we're seeing a little more pricing on the U.S.
side not coming as a surprise to us.
I guess the other point I would really like to point out is with our European manufactured boats we're growing share in Europe.
So as – a lot of focus goes to – well what about the competitiveness in the U.S.
but we are very nicely growing U.S.-branded products manufactured in Europe as well as European-branded products growing there.
So we are having some nice growth in the European market also.
This is something that Mark and Bill and I have talked about a lot and we've talked about on this call in years past.
When you look at the global boat market we are starting to settle in with just a handful of global players people who can be in every region.
And the European boat builders come to the U.S.
they are doing exactly what one would expect them to do but we are working really hard in Europe as Mark said.
And I just want to give you a statistic.
In the third quarter on a constant currency basis we're up 28% in Europe with our boat brands.
And that's local boat brands and U.S.
boat brands that we build in plants in Europe.
And we're able to take the fight to this handful of players anywhere in the world anybody wants to have it and we're being successful doing it.
Great thank you.
And if you have a second just some more color on how you feel about inventory levels.
Spectacular.
Yeah we're in really great shape.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Dustan McCoy for some concluding remarks.
As always we appreciate everybody's interest and the great questions.
We're really excited about our November 10 meeting coming up.
If you can't be there in person you certainly ought to be there by phone.
It's going to be a great meeting and we've got some very exciting plans to talk about our great company between now and 2018.
So thanks for everything and we'll be talking to you on the 10th.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Brunswick Corporation 2015 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer period.
Today's meeting will be recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now introduce Bruce Byots Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us.
On the call this morning is Dusty McCoy Brunswick's Chairman and CEO; Mark Schwabero President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bill Metzger CFO.
Before we begin with our prepared remarks I'd like to remind everyone that during this call our comments will include certain forward-looking statements about future results.
Please keep in mind that our actual results could differ materially from these expectations.
For the details on the factors to consider please refer to our recent SEC filings and today's press release.
All of these documents are available on our website at brunswick.com.
During our presentation we are using certain non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are provided in this presentation as well as in the supplemental information sections of the consolidated financial statements accompanying today's results.
I would like to remind you that figures in this presentation reflect continuing operations only unless otherwise noted.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dusty McCoy.
Thank you Bruce.
Good morning everyone.
I am retiring in a few days and this will be my 11th and last yearend earnings call.
I've enjoyed each and every quarterly and annual earnings call over the past 11 years and more importantly getting to know most of you.
The last important thing a retired CEO does is leave behind a good team.
This is a great team succeeding me.
Style manner of presentation and other fluffy stuff will be different and that's normal.
And grasp of the business strategy and the competition is better.
You'll make a lot of money with this team.
Finally as I relate to this succession team over the last decade we strived to always be credible and never surprised to the downside.
This team I assure you have the same DNA.
Today I will focus my remarks primarily on our 2015 results as well as provide insights in the Global Marine markets and then I'll let Mark and Bill elaborates on business performance and our Outlook for 2016 and beyond.
2015 results reflect an outstanding year for our organization and represent six consecutive years of strong growth in operating and pretax earnings.
And our 2015 Outlook continues to reflect another year of strong earnings growth free cash flow and investment in our business.
Revenue in 2015 increased 7% on a constant currency basis revenue increased 11% with the acquisition contributing 2% of growth.
The stronger growth rates were reported by fiberglass sterndrive/inboard and outboard boats outboard engines and marine parts and accessories.
This growth also included a solid performance in fitness equipment.
Our gross margin increased 10 basis points compared to the prior year.
Operating expenses increased by 2% and were 16.8% of sales.
This compares to 17.6% of sales in 2014.
Adjusted operating earnings increased by 18% versus prior year with operating margins of 10.4% up a 100 basis points compared to last year.
Over the last five years operating margin has increased over 700 basis points.
Operating leverage for the year was approximately 25% on as adjusted basis.
But we continue down the P&amp;L adjusted pretax earnings increased 20% while diluted EPS as adjusted $2.93 with the $0.51 or 21%.
Excluding the benefit of year's R&amp;D tax credit EPS as adjusted of $2.97 the $0.02 above the top end of our guidance.
Finally full year free cash flow totaled $193 million an increase of $76 million versus the prior year.
For the year on a constant currency basis sales on our combined Marine segment increased by 12% while our Fitness segment increased by 7%.
From the geographic perspective consolidated US sales increased by 14%.
On a constant currency basis European sales increased by 10% rest of the world sales increased by 5%.
So in summary combined sales outside United States increased by 7%.
In 2015 adjusted operating earnings were $426.4 million an increase of $65.8 million or 18% compared to 2014.
Our adjusted operating margin at 10.4% is 100 basis points higher than the prior year.
Diluted EPS and continuing operation as adjusted for the full year equal $2.93 per share.
This reflects a 21% increase versus the prior year.
Our fourth quarter sales performance reflects solid market demand as well as contributions from recent investment in new product launches throughout our organization.
On a constant currency basis sales in our combined Marine segment increased by 11% while our Fitness segment increased by 4%.
From the geographic perspective consolidated US sales increased by 12%.
On a constant currency basis international sales increased by 4% with European sales flat and rest of world sales up 6%.
Adjusted operating earnings were $67.7 million for the quarter an increase of $25 million or 59% compared to 2014.
Our adjusted operating margin was 6.9% reflects 240 basis points increase compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS and continuing operation as adjusted for the quarter equaled $0.52 per share an increase $0.19 or 58%.
Bill will provide more detail on the charges that were made during the quarter related to pensions and certain restructuring and impairment items.
Now let's take a look at the Marine market.
In 2015 US power boat industry grew approximately 6% based on preliminary data has once again outboard boat demonstrate the highest growth rate.
The fourth quarter which on average comprises less than 10% of the year retail also reflected a growth rate of approximately 6%.
If you recall our initial assumption for 2015 United States industry growth reflected a rate comparable to that of 2014.
This assumption is proved to be on target.
As we look forward to 2016 we anticipate US growth rate will be comparable with 2015.
Now let's talk about marine market outside the United States.
We will start with Europe.
In 2015 retail boat sales in Europe were up mid single digits led by double digit growth in Scandinavia and Spain.
The Eastern European and Russian markets which are more impactful to engine than the boats the significant market declines till the economic uncertainty fueled by falling oil prices.
Overall our marine sales in constant currency outpaced the market growing by double digits through mix improvements to share gains.
We expect the European retail boat market to be up low to mid single digits in 2016.
We anticipate our marine sales will once again grow faster than the market due to continuing mix improvement and churnings.
Growth in Scandinavia is anticipated to slow as a result of tougher prior year comps and all related headwinds in Norway.
Southern Europe is expected to grow high single digit percent as both Italy and Spain continue their growth; other remainder Western Europe continues to stay recovering.
In 2015 the Canadian retail boat market was down 10%.
The fact in certain rate by slowing economy and a weak Canadian dollar.
Outboard Powerboat were down mid to high single digit our sterndrive boat were down in greater percentage.
Ontario was comprises over 40% of Canadian market grew marginally but was offset by double digit decline from Quebec and oil sensitive Alberta.
Our marine sales in constant currency grew 1% led by strong outboard engine sale.
In 2016 we expect the Canadian boat market to de down and modest significantly as 2015.
We expect our marine sales to outperform the market and improve mix and market share growth.
In Latin America the retail boat market declined double digit in 2015 driven largely by significant declines in Brazil South America's largest boat market.
Brazil's decline was a result of commodity price driven economic weakness and political turmoil.
Our Latin America sales in constant currency were about flat as we improve market share during the year and benefited from local boat production.
We anticipate the 2016 retail boat market to be down mid to half single digits as continued double digit contraction in Brazil is offset by some growth in Argentina as changing import policies kick start retail boat demand.
Finally looking at Asia Pacific retail market demand was flat to down in 2015.
But we expect similar market conditions to exist in 2016.
The Latin America Asia and Africa markets are largely commercial markets for our engine business.
We expect the commercial engine market in these regions to grow low to mid single digit in 2016.
We are planning for Mercury's new commercial outboard engine to help us grow faster than the market.
So to summarize we are planning on the 2016 global boat market to grow in a low single digit range similar to the 2016 growth rate.
We expect to continue to outperform the market through share gains and mix improvements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark who will give us a closer look at our segment results.
Thanks Dusty.
I'll start with the Marine Engine segment where fourth quarter sales on a constant currency basis increased by 5%.
Overall 2015 acquisitions including Garelick in the fourth quarter and BLA in the second quarter contributed 3% to the segment's quarterly sales growth.
From a geographic perspective sales in the US were up 4% reflecting increases in outboard engines and parts and accessories.
This performance trailed the full year growth of 10% due to weak sterndrive demand and seasonal changes in P&amp;A sales which I will discuss in a moment offset by accelerating sales of outboard engine.
Sales to Mercury's European customers excluding currency changes were up 6%.
Rest-of-World sales on a constant currency basis increased by 8%.
The majority of the growth in the quarter came from the BLA acquisition.
Performance of this region was offset by the impact of continued market weakness in Brazil.
For the full year the segment sales on a constant currency basis increased by 10%.
And overall our acquisitions contributed 4% to the segment's annual growth.
On a product category basis the outboard engine business reported accelerating sales growth in the quarter which included strong contributions for Mercury's new 350 and 400 horsepower engines which launched in Q1 of 2015.
Our new four stroke engine platforms are rapidly displacing the two-stroke DFI technology.
These new engines have resulted in market share increases within these higher horsepower categories including gains in targeted saltwater repower and commercial markets.
This shift in outboard mix along with market share gains continue to create short-term challenges for our manufacturing footprint which have been addressing with our ongoing capacity expansion actions which would begin to benefit operations in the first half of 2016.
Sterndrive engine sales continued to be affected by unfavorable global retail demand.
Mercury's parts and accessory businesses delivered strong sales growth during the quarter.
Revenue benefited from acquisitions new product launches and market share gains including the successful execution of our international growth strategy.
In addition the continued sales records achieved by our portfolio of distribution businesses including Land 'N' Sea Kellogg Marine Diversified Products Bell and BLA demonstrated their ability to deliver on superior customer service product availability on time delivery and product category expansions.
As we stated in our previous call the year-over-year growth rates in the first half of 2015 were expected to outpace growth in the second half of 2015.
These differences in growth rates between the first half and second half were largely due to the different weather patterns between these two years as well as the contribution from acquisitions.
Mercury's operating earnings increased by 33% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Operating margins were at 8.8% 200 basis points higher than the prior-year quarter.
The improvements in operating earnings reflected higher sales along with cost reductions including the benefits from plan efficiencies lower commodity cost and the savings related to sourcing initiatives as well as favorable product mix which we benefited from recently launched outboard products.
Partially offsetting these positive factors were the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange.
For the full year operating margins were 15.1% 100 basis points higher than last year.
In our Boat segment fourth quarter revenues on a constant currency basis increased by 18% with strong growth rates in fiberglass outboard boats and fiberglass sterndrive/inboard boats as well as solid gains in our aluminum boats.
On a year-to-date basis our boat brands continue to make progress in gaining share.
In the US which represented over three-fourths of the segments sales increased by 25%? In the quarter European sales on a constant currency basis increased by 15% versus the prior year.
This performance resulted from the introduction of new products including larger more fully featured products by our European manufactured outboard boat brands.
Our US brands are also doing well in Europe with their locally manufactured products.
Rest of world sales on a constant currency basis increased by 1% reflecting the weaker demand in Canada and Asia-Pacific.
In 2015 our overall boat revenue on a constant currency basis increased by 16%.
For the year global retail sales increased by 4% compared to the prior year.
US retail units during the same period increased by 9%.
Global wholesale unit shipments were up 2% versus an increase in dollar sales of 16% as revenue also benefited from a favorable shift in mix.
In the fourth quarter global retail activity was up 1% a strong performance in the US was offset by the weaker international markets.
In the wholesale unit demand was also down 1%.
Regarding our pipelines dealers ended the quarter with 35 weeks of boats on hand measured on a trailing 12-month retail basis compared to the same 35 weeks at the end of fourth quarter of 2014.
With units up modestly compared to last year due to an expanded distribution network and all of our new product introductions.
We have successfully lowered pipelines in Canada versus the prior year reflecting our efforts to match inventories with the declines in retail demand.
We believe our current pipeline levels are appropriate given our current growth expectations in various boat categories and markets and we continue to be very comfortable with these overall levels.
The Boat segment's fourth quarter adjusted operating earnings increased $14.2 million when compared to the prior year.
Operating margins were 3.1%.
This reflects a 440 basis point increase over last year's fourth quarter as adjusted result.
Operating performance in the quarter benefited from higher sales and favorable product mix including pricing benefits from newer fresher models as well as lower commodity cost and the savings related to cost reductions and sourcing initiatives.
For the full year operating margins were 3.6% 200 basis points higher when compared to the prior year's as adjusted results.
Over the last two year this segment's adjusted operating margin has increased by 420 basis points.
On a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 4% for the quarter.
Growth resulted from higher sales to U.S.
health clubs and local and Federal governments and hospitality customers partially offset by a slight decline in the international markets.
These declines were mostly due to tough comparisons in our European business which grew by 22% in 2014.
Additionally the growth rates in certain international markets have moderated due to changes in economic factors.
SCIFIT contributed about 2% to the segment's growth rate in the quarter.
The segment continues to benefit from new product introductions in all the regions with this quarter representing the 13th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
In 2015 on a constant currency basis sales at Life Fitness increased by 7% the SCIFIT acquisition contributed 1% of segment's full year growth.
Segment operating earnings in the quarter decreased by 2% as transaction cost of approximately $2.6 million associated with the segment's acquisitions strategy and the unfavorable impact of changes in customer and channel sales mix more than offset the favorable impact from higher sales our cost reductions and the savings related to sourcing initiatives.
Operating margins were at 16.8% 60 basis points lower than the prior year.
For the full year operating margins were at 14.7% 30 basis points lower than this past year.
As a reminder this year's result reflects the absence of the favorable warranty adjustment that was in the first quarter of 2014.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill for some additional comments on the financials starting with a consolidated perspective on how foreign exchange has affected our results.
Thanks Mark.
I would like to start with discussing the impact that foreign currency is having on our sales comparisons.
As a reminder our most material exposures include sales in euros Canadian dollars Brazilian real and Australian dollars.
In the fourth quarter consolidated sales comparisons were negatively affected by approximately $36 million or 3.8% which was largely in line with our previous guidance.
For the full year changes in exchange rate lowered sales by about 4%.
For the full year operating earnings comparisons were negatively affected by approximately $28 million or 8%.
These estimates include the impact of translation on all sales and cost transacted in a currency other than the US dollar benefit from hedging activities of $12 million and pricing actions in certain international markets in response to the strengthening US dollar.
Moving to full year 2016 we are anticipating the consolidated sales comparison versus 2015 will be negatively affected by approximately by approximately 1%.
The impact on full year operating earnings comparisons is estimated to be $15 million to $20 million or approximately 4%.
I'd like to point out that a significant portion of the operating earnings impact is anticipated to occur in the second quarter.
These estimates for 2016 assume that rate remain consistent with current rates for the remainder of the year.
This next chart details some additional charges that we recorded in the fourth quarters of both 2015 and 2014 that affected our GAAP earnings.
I'd like to provide some background on the charges we recorded in 2015.
Charges of $82 million resulted from actions taken to settle a portion of our pension plan obligations.
These actions include a transferring certain plan obligations to a third party like purchasing annuities on behalf of participants as well as making lump-sum benefit payments directly to participants.
These actions which are part of the company's pension derisking plan contributed to our reduction in plan liabilities of approximately $278 million or 22% in 2015.
We also recorded impairment and restructuring charges in 2015 totaling $12 million.
These charges included the impairment of our Brazilian boat manufacturing assets resulting from continued weak economic conditions in that market.
And Brunswick's corporate headquarters facilities as we look to relocate our headquarters for more appropriately sized base and we also recorded severance cost related to organizational realignment activities.
In 2016 we are planning to incur between $5 million and $10 million of restructuring and integration cost associated with the newly acquired Cybex business.
These costs are excluded from our as adjusted earnings value.
Regarding our tax provision our year-to-date effective book tax rate for 2015 as adjusted was 32.6% slightly higher than the 2014 rate.
Both years reflect the impact of the recently enacted US R&amp;D tax credit.
Our effective book tax rate for 2016 guidance is between 31% and 32% which include the benefit from the US R&amp;D tax credit as well as benefit from optimizing our international legal entity and cash management structures.
For 2016 we are expecting our cash tax rate to be in the low to mid-teen percent range.
Turning to a review of our cash flow statement.
2015 cash provided by continuing operating activities was $338 million an increase of $91 million versus the prior year.
As planned pension contributions were approximately $74 million a level consistent with prior year contributions.
Net increases in our primary working capital account totaled approximately $64 million which is consistent with the prior year.
The biggest changes occurred in inventory which increased by $15 million accrued expenses which decreased by $34 million and accounts notes receivable increased by $12 million.
Our working capital performance was in line with the prior year but their reported usage was greater than our previous guidance.
This was partially due to slightly higher than expected inventory balances which included the impact of new products along with the timing of cash collections.
In addition another component to the difference was due to the classification in the cash flow statement of accounts table increases resulting from capital expenditures.
These increases were netted against capital expenditures first included as a favorable change to working capital is envisioned in our previous guidance.
So in total this change in classification had no impact on free cash flow.
2015 free cash flow was $193 million versus $116 million in the prior year an increase of $76 million.
Capital spending was $133 million for the year which was lower than our previous guidance due to the timing of expenditures and the impact of the capital expenditure related accounts payable increases that I referenced earlier.
As a reminder capital expenditures are reported on the cash flow statement on a cash basis versus an accrual basis.
Our business units continue to remain focused on generating strong free cash flow which will allow us to continue to fund future investments and growth including acquisition and enhance shareholder return.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $669 million.
The change from year-end 2014 reflects year-to-date free cash flow of $193 million as well as cash returned to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends of approximately $120 million and $48 million respectively.
Also during the year spending on acquisitions totaled approximately $30 million.
And finally the change in cash also reflects net proceeds received from the sale of the Bowling Products business.
Let me conclude with comments on certain items that will impact our P&amp;L and cash flow for 2016 which now reflects a recently completed Cybex acquisition.
Our estimate for depreciation and amortization is approximately a $110 million.
We expect our 2016 pension expense to be approximately $50 million $3 million higher than the prior year.
Net interest expense is expected to be flat with last year.
Combined equity earnings and other income are also anticipated to be comparable to the prior year.
And we expect alluded shares outstanding to be approximately $92 million to $92.5 million for the full year and range between $93 million and $91.5 million for the quarterly period.
The reduction in average shares outstanding between years reflects the execution of our share repurchase program which more than offsets stock compensation plan activity.
On the cash flow side our current plan anticipated working capital changes to result in a usage of cash of $60 million to $80 million.
This includes the payout of deferred compensation balances in connection with the planned management transition.
We are planning for capital expenditures to be between 4% and 4.5% of sales.
This increase level of spending reflects substantial new product investments in our outward engine business and continued capacity investments to support new products and growth which are driving expenditures a bit higher in our long-term planning target.
We're also plan to continue to fund investment in product tooling cost production projects.
Our plan reflects approximately $35 million to $45 million of cash contribution to our pension plan which is a reduction from our 2015 level.
We anticipate our cash tax to increase in 2016 slightly versus 2015.
And netting together these factors along with our anticipated earnings performance we expect to generate strong free cash flow for the full year in excess of $200 million.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark to continue our outlook comment.
Thanks Bill.
Our overall operating plans and assumptions for 2016 remain relatively consistent with those we communicated at our November 2015 Investor Day.
In addition as Bill stated we are now reflecting the impact from the acquisition of Cybex that we announced last week.
We continue to target 2016 to be another year of outstanding earnings growth with strong free cash flow generation.
Our plan reflects approximately 9% to 11% sales growth which includes the continuation of solid market growth in the US and Europe partially offset by weakness in certain international marine markets.
Our plan also reflects benefits from the success of our new product and market share gains.
In total acquisitions accounts for about 5% of 2016's growth reflecting completed acquisitions.
We anticipate a slight improvement in gross margin and in operating margins.
As we previously stated FX will be headwind once again with sales being negatively affected by approximately 1% and operating earnings by $15 million to $20 million.
As we demonstrated in 2015 we will continue to focus and benefit from managing cost to initiative such as Lean Six Sigma and by implementing programs to improve our product cost through supply chain initiative and manufacturing efficiency.
We will also continue to see cost reductions resulting from favorable commodity pricing trends.
Operating expenses are estimated to increase in 2016 but as percent of sales are expected to be slightly lower than the 2015 levels.
These expenses reflect the incremental investments that we feel we need to support growth.
Our 2016 EPS guidance as suggested reflects a range of $3.35 to $3.50 which is consistent with our three year plan targets of a mid-teen to high-teen compound annual growth rate.
Our EPS outlook for the first quarter reflects a high- teen growth rate.
However our sales growth will be at the lower end of the full year guidance due in part to just the timing of the Cybex acquisition.
Turning to our segments the 2016 forecast reflects continued revenue and operating earnings growth in our Marine Engine business.
Specifically we're planning for revenue growth in the mid to high single digit percentage range with a solid improvement in operating margins.
Our plan continues to reflect a stable pricing environment for our larger horsepower engine business.
Looking at the Boat segment we're targeting 2016 annual revenue growth rate in the mid to high single percentage range with a solid year-over-year improvement in operating margins of approximately 100 to 120 basis points.
This represents a lower rate of improvement in both sales and operating margins compared to the prior two years which included mix benefits associated with the success of our large boat platform.
Moving forward these benefits will be less pronounced as new product introductions replace existing products and are more balanced across the portfolio.
We remain positioned to achieve our long-term target of 6% to 7%.
Across our marine businesses along with the execution of a product development and manufacturing strategies our business leaders are fortifying their efforts and those of their sales and service teams to drive execution in the marketplace with support for a dealer and the brand building activities that are important to our continued growth.
In our Fitness segment our plan is based upon continued revenue growth and maintaining strong operating margins.
In 2016 including the Cybex acquisition and a full year of SCIFIT we're targeting revenue growth in the mid to high 20% range resulting in total revenue approaching $1 billion.
Excluding acquisitions Life Fitness' sales outlook continues to reflect mid to high single digit percentage growth.
As we stated on last Thursday's call Cybex's margins have historically been lower than those of Life Fitness largely due to a higher operating cost base on a percentage of sales basis.
However after an initial period of margin dilution we expect to return the combined business margin levels to the traditional Life Fitness margins by 2018 due to cost reductions and revenue growth.
We are planning for 2016 operating margins as adjusted to be lower due to the impact of the Cybex acquisition including the purchase accounting adjustments with the impact being more first half weighted.
And with that I'd like to thank all of you.
And I'd also like to thank Dusty for his opening comments today on the call and we are now happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from James Hardiman from Wedbush.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
And I guess first and foremost Dusty you mentioned that this is your last annual call I am assuming this is your last call overall not sure we are going -- whether not we are going to see-- [Multiple Speakers] Yes.
That's right.
Okay.
Not sure if we are going to see you in Miami but either way just wanted to say I think Brunswick is benefited a great deal having you at the helm and I think I speak for most of the people in this call when I say that I think we all benefited from working with you and learning from you overall these years.
Thank you.
That's great comment.
You will see me in Miami.
You are not going to quite get rid of me until after that.
Okay okay.
And if ever you need a wind manage as you sort of sail off into the sunset I am here for you.
Right.
That would be great.
So Dusty I guess I'll stay on you.
You noted on the last call and I think it was really speaking to some of the conversations you had with investors in recent week that you guys don't sell or you don't sell motorcycle no mobile and that your business is right marine and fitness really don't bear a whole lot of resemblance to those businesses.
Maybe can you speak more broadly about the boat consumer and whether or not you think they might have a bit more resiliency over the course of 2016 and beyond relative to other higher ticket discretionary items where it absolutely seemed that we are seeing those segment get pinched and I realize that this is sort of the reverse of few years back when some of these segment ramping and the boat industry was seeing more measured growth.
How is this consumer different and do we think that they might be a little bit more resilient? We do think consumer is different and definitely more resilient.
James I mentioned this in the call last Thursday if you fundamentally look where we have been taking our marine business is we first said we are going to make more money in the smaller industry and that's what we are doing.
The reason we are able to do that is we really focused around where we thought growth would be.
And maybe it is easiest to talk about it around boat.
But it is aluminum fishing boat fiberglass outboard fishing boats Pontoon boats and then all the engines that support that particular activity.
And as we look at those particular buyers they have a whole bunch of common characteristics that are really serving us well.
And we began to see it coming out at recession.
So buyer there tends to be someone who works for someone else and not owning their own business.
And these all are generalities.
And in general as long as they feel comfortable about their job and their ability to obtain a wage on a regular basis they want a boat because boating support their avocation it's they don't like someone who just cruises and get some of the bunch of friends and move around these folks want the boat to fish and for pursue something that is important to their particular lifestyle.
And we've been very good at getting and understanding that's the part of the market where there was going to be improvement and we wanted to be there.
In the Pontoon market we talked about this a lot that the Pontoon permits the boater to do everything and more that they can do on similar size of big bottom boat if you will.
They are incredibly stable you can have a great time with your family your children then want to ski tube wakeboard everything they would ever want to do on the water except like surfing in the ski boat guys have been doing their job on their own but when the day begins to do slowdown the entire family can be very relaxed with lots of room and great comfort and enjoy themselves.
So as we've looked at the market that's where we focused and I think we've done a good job of executing there.
And then of course into marine market our view was not withstanding the fact that new boat sales would take a while to fully recover that boat usage would continue unabated and our judgment was we needed to continue to be very good in the P&amp;A business because the P&amp;A business is supported by boat usage and time again is proven that's been a good call on our part.
Because boat usage or participation continue to grow.
The only other comment I make this is a discussion I've had with many of you the price range of these let say ancillary products eTVs and all that I talked about are just different than boats.
So we attract a different buyer who wants to engage in a different activity and again that served us very well.
And then lastly the competitive mix is very different in marine than it is in these other businesses and the competitive mix other than in boats and boat is always going to be a tough place so maybe try to away from it.
But when we look at engines and the P&amp;A business the comparative mix is really really healthy and we have mature very smart competitors who always understand doing the right thing.
And then I do want to talk about replacement cycle for boat and fitness equipment.
One of the reasons we are into fitness business is health wealth and fitness are growing globally and becoming increasingly important.
So let's never forget the replacement cycle for fitness product is less than half of existing replacement cycle for boat.
Then even as we look at boats and engine and as we go back to registrations back to 1965 we are coming to a period that a replacement cycle is going to be picking up in boats and I think we are beginning to see the first sequence of that in getting good share in fishing boat.
That's a very long answer.
Takes a long time to explain it up.
I apologize but we believe strongly that marine market is very different than these other markets and that's why we are stressing to think we got a company you have to take time and understand and bring the fitness markets because they are different than those other markets.
That's extremely helpful.
I know I've already taken lot of time but do just one follow up with that keep it high level obviously the oil and gas end market have been particularly problematic.
Have you thought about what type of exposure that you have there states like Texas and the parts of Canada that you pointed out? And then the whole millennial thing has become a bear case against the industry the whole idea that younger consumers aren't really interested in ownership and more interested in sort of the sharing economy.
Just high level thoughts your last call would love to get your thoughts on some of these bigger pictures issues.
Okay.
The first about to this -- the sharing economy and some view that it is going to negatively impact this company.
We are a shareholder and a deep participant and one of the largest boats leasing operation in the United States and let's just put this in context.
9.8 million Boats registered in America about 1 000 are in this program.
It's silliness to begin to think that's going to have a massive impact on our industry and I really mean that.
And even if they does we will serve it because we will prove it that we are the most full on boat to ride the people who want to lease it.
This oil economy is very interesting in my judgment first Mark and Bill talked about sales were down in our fitness business in Europe and if we find sales were down and our distributor business which distributed into a lot of the oil producing countries which are under stress right now.
Turkey which is under enormous stress from refugees et cetera.
And we are weathering that western Canada is a bit of a problem we are weathering there.
I don't count Texas Texas looks like it's getting through that fine because people still want to fish et cetera.
So net-net as we look forward low fuel prices are real benefit to us because it keeps people on the water for a longer period of time which benefit our strong P&amp;A business.
Extremely helpful Actually -- this is up in line with the market in 2015.
Excellent.
Thanks guys.
I'll see you in Miami.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Dusty after James' congratulation it has been wonderful pleasure working with you and definitely the team you helped mould here in and passing the reins over to thank you for that also Mark -- Right.
It's a great team.
I am not going to be missed for about two seconds since over.
Unless it's a -- so it's a good bar for Mark and Bill to continue but definitely capable team there thank you.
A couple of things I'll continue on little bit James touched on the oil side.
But the only new impact you hinted a little bit you got water in Texas; people want to fish what do you hearing seeing from dealers there? Same thing Cali started to get little bit rain but definitely the droughts not broken but any commentary on that.
And then as it relates to FX Marine Max just picked up a European yacht brand announced this morning.
How do you see the incremental competition from the European especially given the EURO over the last year or so here and anything we haven't seen anything to date but anything that you are catching any wind up or anything regarding Yamaha or some other Japanese using FX on the engine side.
Well Tim that's a long list.
So we will start down through some of the impacts.
The bottom line is from the only now if you want to look from a global perspective or even look at it from a North American perspective Canada had some impact as we've talked about the FX but from the standpoint of weather up there it has been fine California has been down a bit but it's a smaller market.
Texas as Dusty just mentioned it's actually slightly outpacing what the US is in general and Florida even whether you want to talk about tornados or impacts of anything going on there it's outpacing the overall US market as well.
So you just have so many puts and takes across all the different geographies and markets and that it's tough to say it's having a positive or negative because there is always something imbalance somewhere else really in the world.
When you look at the other piece you were talking about kind of the international competition.
When we look at that and clearly there is international boats there is currency impacts but I really want to go back and start live just the pure basic and what the data says.
If you look at the where they would most likely come it would be large boats and number two is the fact that if you dig in the detail and get behind the numbers particularly in the fourth quarter I mean we are virtually 100% of all the growth the industry is seeing is coming from Brunswick.
So the data really reflects how strong where we and our dealer partners are doing in this specific market.
And we've had considerable share gains in the large boat category across 2015 in total.
So sure they've got some advantage but we think when you take to see way product the newness the things with their L class and the fact that it's more than just price point.
These are the 1% who is buying this product and it's not shopping for can I save $10 000.
This is someone who is really looking for image prestige they want to be able to go back and tell somebody I just bought a brand new 59 foot seaway.
And all those things play in the category.
When you look over on the engine side.
We've got a large competitor there but it's a very responsible competitor and continues to demonstrate that in the market.
And from a US North America perspective we are not seeing anything unusual.
We see some programs going on but this time of year with boat shows and stuff that's pretty normal that somebody is going to add a warranty or do some spiff for a program.
So it's nothing out of the normal.
And we are seeing in a couple places internationally where it might be a little more aggressive and a little less normal.
But again with our largest competitor in the market continues to be very responsible and we've continue to make that assumption on a go forward basis.
As it relates to the announcement you said for Marine Max I've just -- Galleon is I'd just say a relatively small manufacture over in Europe.
Bill Miguel in the Marine Max organization feels that this can be a complimentary product.
They bring it in a very finite range.
I mean the net net all of that I don't think you are going to see any huge impact either impacting us or other market place by doing that.
It's a relatively small Polish boat manufacture.
Okay.
And Mark thank you.
A very very helpful and switching to fitness one question there and versus the conference call you guys held last week any color you can talk about now with Cybex in the fold here as to how the combined organization the mix of your business commercial versus consumer going forward.
That's one of the things you had mentioned previously is that you might see a little bit of growth in consumer and into the Life Fitness brand but has anything changed now with Cybex in the fold.
I don't think you will -- it's our focus is still primarily on the commercial market and we think the combination of the Life Fitness brand and Cybex really just gives us an even stronger presence in commercial and we believe that fundamentals of the business are really there in that category.
I mean if you really go back and look at all the positive things that sit there on the fitness business today club growth all the things going on around the wellness where the demographics are at.
We just think this is a phenomenal business to keep building on.
We think the underlying foundation of the business is extremely strong.
And the Cybex acquisition just allows us to build on it.
And what it's going to be able to do is even create more powerful us in the area of product development against this more capabilities and more capacity from a manufacturing standpoint.
And we believe it gives enhances our capability or even continue to grow this business internationally.
So it's not about try to get over to another segment.
It's just becoming an even stronger player in the segment we are in.
Okay.
Lastly Bill any thoughts I know you guys have been very consistent and steady about the share repo over each quarter and that was the plan but given where the stock is and you got a year 2016 left here on the plan any thoughts about just maybe accelerating that here into the first half of the year? Tim I would comment couple things.
A we are committed to maintaining balance.
When we said it's a -- we want to make sure we execute our plan over a multiple year period of time.
We've flexed up and down on share repurchases as we gone through our 2015 depending upon valuations are.
And we will continue to do that.
I think we have a very high degree of confidence in our ability to grow the company through M&amp;A and organic opportunities.
And we really want to make sure that we keep some dry powder to get that done.
We committed a pretty large portion of our unallocated capital to Cybex.
And we are very confident that we can deliver against the acquisition metrics that we described a week ago.
So I think this is one of those situations where we are going to stay to course we will continue to execute against the plan that we laid it out where reflex kind of a quarterly basis between the boundaries we've established.
And go from there so I think that's the right tact to take as we see there right now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Lee Giardano from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
And Dusty best of luck in retirement.
So my question is on capacity.
You mentioned some increase spend this year.
Can you just talk about the capacity levels where they stand in different areas of the business and how much you think you can ramp up to keep up with the demand? Thanks.
Yes.
We talked about this some on prior calls but as you go through it we think we've positioned ourselves very well from a capacity standpoint on our boat business.
We obviously made the additions and our aluminum fish boat category are Pontoon business down in our Boston Whaler business and then our Rick boat business so we think we are positioned very well there.
Where we are actually making more of the capacity investments are up on the engine side and really all around the outboard business which is shown phenomenon growth and share and improvements to the Mercury business.
And as we've launched the new 75-9115and our new 350 and 400 we are continuing to put in additional machining and assembly capabilities there metering that end kind of ahead where the demand is.
And we've also increasing our coding capabilities and capacities up there as well.
So our investment of capacity is really around the outboard business on the mercury side.
And then the other investments have really been on the fitness side both in terms of things we've done with our facility in Hungary or additions and expansions up on Ramsey facility.
And it was a significant part of our interest in Cybex because we pick up some more manufacturing capacity for our business there to grow of and we looked to we don't have to go create or find a site and start a new plant up from scratch.
We basically bring in well established facility with a great workforce and give us the ability to grow that piece as well.
So principally the all of the expansion is really not what we focused and go that's the outboard business and our fitness business.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Badishkanian from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
And then Dusty congrats on really successful turnaround of the business and successful tenure here at Brunswick.
I have two questions.
First is just with respect to you know talking to dealers which I know you do very regularly.
How comfortable are they with their inventory levels and what's their outlook for the business? And then second should we expect any positive new product new surprises in terms of announcement at the Miami show? Well let's start with the comments about the dealer side of the equation.
There are lots of different surveys and things that get published and go around but quite frankly we are very comfortable with where the pipeline is that and where our comments were.
We think not only as the pipeline level appropriate but as we look at our order incoming order rates and stuff we think they tie very well to how we've laid out the business for next year.
And in fact where we think there is some growth opportunities we are actually been increasing our production a little bit.
An all that comes from again the confidence that we are seeing and hearing from our dealers.
Lot of boat shows lot of different things going on but as we interact with the dealers in those environments they are pretty upbeat and positive that 2016 is going to be continuation of some of the good things they saw in the 2015 environment.
So dealer attitudes are good dealer financials all those things are sitting in pretty good place Greg.
Good.
And I know you won't talk specific -- And about second - I wasn't dropping it I was just -- it was something that you just have to wait till next week Greg.
I'd tell you but if I tell you there would be surprise I would be announcing it.
So -- Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Swartz from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon everyone.
And Dusty likewise it has been a pleasure working with you in past couple of years and best of luck in retirement.
Just wanted to follow up on an earlier question about capacity and specifically some of the capacity you are building in outboard engine.
Could you maybe talk about one where I guess where we are in the process when do we expect to kind of start producing with that expanded capacity and are you having currently any problems I'd say are you behind demand is that impacting what we are seeing in terms of growth for the engine business right now.
No.
I mean we are delivering on a daily basis across all the lines.
We've got -- as we go into a season right now Mike we'd expect to have a little bit and we have a little bit of backlog on our top end product with our new the 350 and 400 just quite frankly have even exceeded all of our expectations and how well that's doing in the marketplace.
And so there is a little bit there.
We've been investing in the third and fourth quarter and some additional capacity.
As I mentioned in the comments that capacity will start coming on early in the second half and provide some incremental production benefits to sterner outboard product launch.
Okay.
And then just second question on the SG&amp;A leverage in the quarter came in little stronger than I guess would have expected.
Was there any kind of shift in spending into the first quarter or this kind of just a new normalized you leverage some of the investments you made over the past couple of years? Mike I would say that as we go to Q4 I am not sure that when we kind of assess how we ended up the year we ended up materially different than what we thought we were going to.
I do think and as you look at how we navigated through 2015 and try to offset some of the impacts of FX we were pretty -- we managed our operating expense levels pretty tightly as we move into 2016 we are very much of a view that we need to continue to invest we've got plans to continue to invest in new products that Dusty referenced last week on the call.
We got investments that we need to make an IT as our business would grow and support those strategies.
We are investing some of the gains that we are seeing in productivity back into the plan and see even get better and more effective and generating cost reductions there.
So when you look into 2016 we are very much positioning ourselves where we are going be probably a little bit higher on operating expense increases I would say that are new normal in 2015 was very much driven by of what we did in 2015 was very much driven by the market environment that we face in the tough headwinds we face from FX.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
And Dusty look forward to see you in Miami but let me add my sincere gratitude and best wishes on your next chapter.
So the couple more questions probably for Bill here but switching to the cash flow outlook 2016 CapEx looks to be the highest since pre recession peak.
I guess how much of that is just a function of some of that planned 2015 spends slipping into 2016.
And I guess does it have any impact on sort of your average annual spend over the 2018 plan.
I would say must -- sorry Jimmy I thought you were done.
No.
Go ahead.
I just have a follow up.
I was anxious to answer your question.
So I would say from the CapEx there are a little bit slips over from 2015 to 2016.
A large portion of the increase though assigned to new products on the outboard side of the business we've got some heavier capacity investment that happens and I think that this ends up being a year where we are just a little bit higher than what our long-term average is we are still very much comfortable with the 3.5% to 4% as a long term average.
Okay understood.
And then just on the working capital front.
I guess if I do the math it looks like you are expecting over 30% of your incremental organic sales in 2016 to end up in working capital.
Historically the business hasn't been that working capital intensive.
So any meaningful change in terms of customer or product mix that we should be aware of that's driving that? No.
I would say that we are -- when you start to strip out pluses and minuses one of the big cash requirement we have this year some payouts related to deferred comp with the management transition that's probably a quarter to a third of what our working capital usage is in 2016.
So when you take a look and strip that out you get the more normal sort of usage level Jimmy.
Okay helpful.
And then my -- Outside of that is materially different than what we've seen in the past.
Okay got it.
And then Mark a just one clarification question here.
I think you said about a 100% of the growth in the industry is coming from Brunswick.
Was that specific to large boats sports yacht and yacht? I just didn't quite understand the context of that comment.
Yes.
Large boats sports yacht yacht sport quarter Thank you.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Good afternoon I guess is now.
Dusty good luck for your retirement.
I guess is there any way talk about the impact of the improving plan efficiency investments that you have made to date on your 2016 guidance? Well when you -- let's go back to kind of start we've got all the plans kind of in different state of progression and typically what we've talked about is our plan efficiency improvements have been more focused around some of our boat facilities.
But I want to start with -- we've got tremendous efficiency improvements Lean Six Sigma activities going on within our aluminum and businesses both the fishing side Pontoon lots of great activates going on the efficiency side at Mercury so on the engine business.
I think as you get to boat I'd characterize there is two things.
We are seeing some efficiency improvements but some of that get in eaten up by the fact that we are still hiring employees and going through training cycle and that eats up some of the efficiencies that obviously we are gaining because one of the side effects to growing is the fact that we are bringing new employees and I think the second thing is we are just continuing to raise the bar on our quality expectations.
And what we wanted to be delivering there and so that add some processes and some things from a perspective that eats up some of the efficiencies on the boat side.
So David they are very evident and exist within some of our margin improvements in our engine and some areas of fitness and boat -- and some areas of fitness and boat.
There are some areas of the boat that those things I just highlighted kind of negate some of what we are seeing overall on the efficiencies.
But if you look back at fundamentally all the headwind we've had on FX and look how we've offset it it has been with cost reductions sourcing efficiency commodity all those things are contributing to offset those headwinds.
Okay.
Thanks for the detail.
And then just second question would be with regard to the saltwater market share for your engine business and if you could just bring us up to date on whatever progress you have been able to achieve there and it is well maybe your ability to hold share in the fresh water market? I'll start with saltwater.
When we started talking about the three areas of focus principally on our outboard business around commercial salt and repower we were in the high teens and with all the data we get and can see and translate to we are in the mid to high 20s today.
So we paid a nice share growth across the saltwater category.
And then as you go to the fresh water market we are continuing to grow share.
We think we are doing it through a couple different things.
One great engine product; two is some exciting and fresh product where we are trying to turn about 30% of our aluminum products on an annual basis or keep that stuff really fresh in the marketplace.
And the third point is between what we do in our boat business and then significant other exclusive customers that we have we've got a certain amount of that business David that's really locked up.
And so we feel good about it in mature growth.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Craig Kennison from Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks for squeezing me and Dusty James expressed my sentiment quite well.
Also I supposed to my questions but I'll keep it to the credit side if I could.
Are you seeing any changes at all in the behavior of credit providers either on the wholesale side or the retail side especially in market like oil markets where the economy has turned? Craig I'll take that.
What I'll tell you that the oil related markets where I think it would be an issue is just so small to what overall marine demand is.
I just don't have a specific comment on that right.
Lenders continued to be diligent in their own underwriting and dig in and very constructive relative to terms and we've really see no change in that environment over the last 12 months.
It's a very -- still a very constructive retail lending environment for us.
And on the wholesale side again we've really see no change.
Dealers' financials are in great shape the aging of the product and the field is in great shape.
And the overall levels of inventory are in great shape.
And whenever anything gets out of whack with those three you see a change in lending environment and we are just not seeing that right now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Two quick ones.
One any additional commentary on use boats or non inventory and if you think that could be a bigger competitive issue to new sales if think slow.
And the second one is I appreciate the color on CapEx post Cybex I was wondering if the working capital profile changes with that business at all.
Thanks.
I will address the -- the working capital profile of the company did not change substantially with Cybex it's a 4% add to sales working capital pattern look a lot like life fitness and there is really no dramatic change to our working capital needs on a go forward basis.
And on the use product Joe I would say we've seen no change in the market there except maybe the commentary has started to tweak a little bit there is not enough good used product out there and continues to become more and more of a challenge I think for dealers to get a hold a product like that and as we look forward that should be nothing but good for new boat demand.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Carla Casella from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi my question is also somewhat on the credit side but little more your own credit and the rating agencies.
Have you talked to them post Cybex and do you still have a target to get into investment grade or have a target when you maybe able to get there? We are still -- we have talked them after the Cybex transaction.
We still have an objective to get back to investment grade.
And we are patiently awaiting for them to transition their rating to an investment grade rate.
We feel we've done everything that we needed to do from a credit perspective.
Our operations are strong we've diversify the business.
I think that benefit both equity holders and credit holders it just hasn't been reflected in the rating.
I agree with you.
So we get it soon.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call back over to management team for closing remarks.
Yes.
First of all I hope you can sense the understand the excitement that the entire management team has about some outstanding performance in 2015 and our continued strong outlook at 2016 through 2018 that we've laid out most recently talked you about in November.
So lot of excitement here.
The management team is energized it's -- we are all going kind of hate to see Dusty go.
He has been such a friend and advocate and partner over these years.
But he not being boastful but he leaves he has done whatever a Chairman and CEO was supposed to do.
And that's leave a legacy of people here to run the business when he leave.
And we are comfortable with the things we've laid out.
We are confident we can deliver these things.
And lastly we just look forward to seeing all of you down at those of who you are going to come seeing you all down at Miami here and basically little less than two weeks.
So just have a great day.
And thank you for giving us time today to share our story.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.