Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Tesoro Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carissa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Carissa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2011 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at www.tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning and we appreciate everyone taking the time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
During the first quarter we ran at significant higher refinery utilization rates when compared to both the first and fourth quarters of last year allowing us to more fully capture strong crack spreads and advantaged crude oil discounts.
We also made good progress on our improvement initiatives to drive EBITDA growth.
The combined result is reflected in our very strong earnings and positive cash flow for the first quarter.
We also announced during the quarter our plans to expand crude oil throughput capacity at our North Dakota refinery by about 17%.
This $35 million project which we expect to complete in the second quarter next year will allow us to capture more of our advantage crude position in the region.
We also successfully executed the initial public offering of Tesoro Logistics LP.
The launch of this MLP [master limited partnership] is an important step in the execution of our logistics growth strategy.
And yesterday as you probably saw we redeemed the full $150 million outstanding amount of our junior subordinated notes.
With earnings strength and debt reduction we expect to reduce total debt to total capitalization significantly this year driving towards our goal of around 30%.
We have made good progress in driving operational efficiency and effectiveness delivering earnings strength and improvement exercising financial discipline through debt reduction and positioning ourselves for strategic growth through the MLP.
These results are all evidence of our successful efforts to realize our strategic priorities and drive shareholder value.
Turning to the quarter industry crack spreads were up year-over-year and our refining gross margins were up even more.
The first quarter average Tesoro Index gained over $5 per barrel doubling from the same quarter last year.
This improvement was driven primarily by diesel crack spreads which were up nearly 140% over last year.
Gasoline crack spreads were also up gaining 35% over last year.
Global demand growth especially for distillates remains strong.
U.S.
refining margins generally have benefited from the growth in Asian demand and increased levels of U.S.
exports to Europe and South America.
During the quarter we also saw marginal improvements in U.S.
demand.
Capture rates were up materially in the quarter driven by significantly advantaged crude costs relative to benchmark crude prices and a solid operating performance during the quarter.
On the West Coast we continue to capture wider discounts for foreign heavy crude oil relative to domestic alternatives.
In the Mid-Continent supply length of domestic inland crude oil increased the discounts for these grades relative to waterborne benchmarks such as Brent.
For the quarter our realized gross margin was $14.33 per barrel on a Tesoro Index that averaged $10.54 per barrel.
Throughput rates during the quarter averaged 561 000 barrels per day or more than 84% of total crude oil capacity.
This is up from 505 000 barrels per day or 76% for the fourth quarter last year.
The improvement reflects less unplanned downtime minimal turnaround activity and the benefits of Anacortes being back online for a full quarter.
Manufacturing cost in the first quarter averaged $5.22 per barrel a decrease of over $0.50 per barrel from the 2010 fourth quarter excluding the benefit of $12 million in property damage insurance recoveries accrued last quarter.
Retail marketing margins were down during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is typical in a rising crude price environment where Street prices tend to lag rapid increases in wholesale spot prices.
With significantly higher pump prices we did see a slight reduction in same-store sales.
Year-over-year for the quarter they were down about 1%.
However our total retail fuel sales volumes increased 12% year-over-year as we completed the previously announced addition of some 300 Shell branded outlets.
As we mentioned in the earnings release our pretax corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $37 million before $3 million in corporate depreciation and $46 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense that's primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $42 million.
Turnaround spending was $9 million.
We continue to plan for 2011 capital spending of $380 million including our regulatory maintenance and income projects.
We continue to expect about $160 million in turnaround spending for 2011 also.
As we look forward we remain cautiously optimistic about market conditions.
From a crack spread perspective the first quarter exceeded our expectations and we are pleased with the market conditions so far in the second quarter.
Additionally the steady decline in U.S.
light product inventories combined with strong exports should continue to provide support to margins.
Putting the market aside we are capturing opportunities to drive significant shareholder value from our existing asset base.
We have established strategic priorities that are focused on driving free cash flow strengthening the position of the company and increasing shareholder value.
As we progress through 2011 we remain committed to focus on driving operational efficiency and effectiveness through increased reliability and improving process safety realizing further system improvements focusing on cost leadership and investing to drive fundamental improvement in the business.
In all we've targeted over $225 million in EBITDA growth from these efforts in 2011.
Combine that with our increased runs and strong margin capture the first quarter and Anacortes being back online for a full year and we should be able to deliver significant EBITDA growth in 2011 versus last year.
Before I turn the call over to Scott let me comment on the recent IPO [initial public offering] of Tesoro Logistics.
I am pleased with the successful launch of Tesoro Logistics which speaks highly of the quality and strategic value of these assets.
The creation of Tesoro Logistics as we said is a key element of our value-driven growth strategy and puts us in a strong position to grow our Logistics business.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for more a detailed discussion of our quarterly results and also to provide guidance for the second quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night first quarter net income was $107 million or $0.74 per diluted share.
That compares to an adjusted net loss in the first quarter last year of $136 million or $0.97 per diluted share.
Special items last year included after-tax expenses of $12 million related to an impairment charge at our Los Angeles refinery and $7 million related to the 2010 federal healthcare law.
Our cash G&amp;A expenses before non-cash charges related stock based compensation expense are coming down as we expected and are in line with guidance for the quarter.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $724 million.
This is before the $330 million in total net proceeds from the recent IPO of Tesoro Logistics.
We ended the quarter undrawn on the corporate revolver with nearly $1 billion of additional revolving credit capacity.
During the quarter we amended and extended the corporate revolving credit facility extending the term of the facility to 2016 improving some of the credit terms and lowering the letter of credit and drawn pricing by 50 basis points.
We ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of 37%.
This is before the benefit from the early redemption of the $150 million junior subordinated notes which we completed yesterday.
The increase in cash for the quarter was $76 million and reflects EBITDA of $323 million less working capital and other uses of $127 million Tesoro Panama revolver repayments of $70 million and capital and turnaround spending of $51 million.
The use of cash from working capital in the quarter reflects carrying a higher level of crude oil inventory in our system.
A portion of this is temporary and we expect to see the positive cash flow impact from inventory reductions in the coming months.
Turning to our outlook for the second quarter of this year.
The second quarter typically sees seasonal increases in PADD V demand for gasoline and distillates compared to the first quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter increases of greater than 4% are typical for gasoline and jet and increases over 7% are typical for diesel.
However high crude oil prices and resulting high product prices are a real challenge to demand growth.
Nonetheless the West Coast 3/2/1 crack spread averaged nearly $20 per barrel in April up more than 6% per barrel relative to last year.
On the crude side we continue to see the pricing dislocation for WTI crude oil.
Due to logistical constraints in the U.S.
mid-continent inventories have reached record highs and are putting downward price pressure on this crude.
Other crudes that are tied to the same logistical areas such as Canadian Upper Plains and Rocky Mountain crudes are similarly affected.
We expect to continue to recognize an advantaged crude cost for a portion of our refining system in the second quarter.
I'll close with guidance for second quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands per barrels per day 160 000 to 170 000 in the Pacific Northwest; 65 000 to 75 000 in the Mid-Pacific; 110 000 to 120 000 in the Mid-Continent; and 240 000 to 250 000 barrels per day in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the second quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $3.75 in the Pacific Northwest $3.35 in the Mid-Pacific $3.50 in the Mid-Continent and $7.35 in the California region.
You'll notice that our guidance for manufacturing cost per barrel in the California region are up over actual results in the first quarter of this year.
The increase coming from our Golden Eagle refinery reflects primarily 2 one-time items: First is additional expense incurred to optimize the planning and execution of planned turnaround activities at the refinery.
By deferring planned turnaround work from the first to the second quarter of this year we were able to run more barrels and capture the stronger margin environment we saw in the first quarter.
Second is additional maintenance spending on mechanical integrity to further improve reliability.
So while expenses are up temporarily in the second quarter we expect overall profitability at the refinery to be improved by these changes.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $95 million.
Additional second quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense including depreciation of $36 million and interest expense before interest income of $50 million.
The higher than usual interest expense is due in part to an estimated $14 million non-cash expense related to the recent redemption of the junior subordinated notes.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
In closing here we are pleased with the excellent first quarter results and our delivery of higher utilization rates and strong earning and positive cash flow.
For the second quarter we expect to achieve higher throughput rates realizing crude capacity utilization of about 90%.
As I said earlier we are very focused on our strategic priorities which we expect will generate additional free cash flow strengthen the competitive position of the company and increase shareholder value.
We look forward to sharing progress updates as we get further into the year specifically around some of the strategic priorities that we set out at our analyst call.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
There's been a fair amount of discussion about the Midwest WTI differentials.
But I was wondering if you could talk about the West Coast feedstock dynamics.
What's happening with the domestic crudes and how you're benefiting from importing foreign crudes? Yes the differentials Jeff in the first quarter like we said in our release were favorable for the heavy crude oil and that is the pricing effect of that [ph].
So the pricing for the crudes on the West Coast continued to be favorable both for the imports coming out of South America that we bring in as well as the heavy crudes in California.
Could you talk about the impact of the Japanese outages on the West Coast? Did you see any influence there either lower imports or increased exports? Our view on what happened in Japan and the consequences on the West Coast is that we see the export level activity out of the West Coast has been pretty consistent with what we saw last year the same levels of both gasoline and distillate imports which we participate in are there.
We saw higher exports coming out of the Gulf Coast that would absorb some of the additional demand there.
And we didn't see any exports going into Japan and maybe a little bit less pressure from any type of Asian imports into the West Coast from Korea that would normally be there.
So we did not see a significant impact.
Probably the biggest impact that we experienced was really around the pricing for crude oil sweet crudes and that impacted us at our Hawaii refinery.
And your next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Just a very simple one first what went on in Hawaii in Q1? Obviously it's going to resolve itself in Q2.
A lot of it looked like it was OpEx.
But could you just talk us through that? Yes there -- basically 2 things happened in Hawaii in the first quarter.
The first thing was that the way our pricing works in Hawaii with the way we buy crude and then price some of our contracts there's a lag effect there.
So we get hurt in a rising crude environment because of the lag.
That's one thing.
And that probably accounted for some portion of it.
The second thing is is that we did maintenance work on our cogeneration facility at the Hawaii refinery and as a result of that put us in the market to buy both electricity and steam during the quarter which as you said Ed was the result of a higher operating cost for the second quarter.
So those 2 things were the main impact that impacted us in Hawaii which did not have a good quarter.
All right.
Okay.
And then a more general question.
Obviously debt reducing towards your sort of target and probably falling -- well hopefully falling further in 2012 2013.
But you've still got opportunities to invest in the assets to drive some further EBITDA growth into next year.
Can you talk about your latest thoughts another sort of 4 months in regards to sort of returning some extra cash to shareholders or investing in the core business? Yes but I think that's a good question.
At our outlook I think we said that we have a pretty strong cash position right now.
And as we laid out last year as I think everyone recalls we had targeted about -- spending about $110 million in 2011 on what we call small capital high return projects that fundamentally improve the performance of our assets but a lot of that directed at our refining business.
So we're on target to continue to do that.
As we've done further work around all of our assets we've identified potential opportunities to probably go out and increase some of our capital spending on some pretty attractive projects.
For example we announced a month or so ago the expansion of crude capacity at Mandan for $35 million and we see a few other projects like that that as we continue to work the assets and that that are really attractive and that aren't dependent upon refining margins because we really want to be able to get sustainability in the capital we spend there.
So right now with the free cash flow that we're generating our intentions are twofold.
One is to continue to pay down some of the debt until we get to a targeted level like we've said of around 30% total debt to total cap.
And secondly to be disciplined about capital projects that can really go in and strengthen our asset base and spend that money doing that.
And we have a number of those things working that we'll talk about as we go through the year.
And then so a follow on might be that if you get to pay down debt faster and you spend the money on capital projects that excess cash you'd consider returning to shareholders? We'll look at -- at this point in time we'll look and see how that all prevails.
I mean we're -- as we look at our forecasts for the margin outlook in that we haven’t tended to be maybe bullish as some people on margins and so we've been a little bit cautious and focused on what we do in that.
So we'll look further as we get through the year and determine what we do if we get into a position where we have significantly excess cash.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Merrill Lynch.
Greg I'm going to try a couple if I may.
Jumping back to the Hawaii refinery I'm just wondering if you can give us an update on the fuel oil pricing contract.
Obviously it's been going on now for quite a while.
And just overall in the context of Hawaii as a strategic asset for Tesoro could you maybe just give us a broad discussion around those 2 issues please? Yes.
I think no one is more frustrated with the Hawaii fuel oil contract than I am.
I can tell you that much.
We have spent considerable amounts of time both in negotiations as we shared with everyone with our customers to basically get a fair market price for the fuel oil that we supply to the 2 customers and we did that a long time ago.
We went in through the process with the Public Utilities Commission which -- and advanced that through and got support from the consumer advocate in Hawaii.
Then we got into the elections in Hawaii and changes in the Public Utility Commission both in leadership and membership as the new governor came into Hawaii.
And we've had meetings with the governor himself as well as continuing discussions.
And we've been assured that we will get some answer almost any day now.
But quite frankly it's been a slow painful process.
During the second quarter because of what's happened in Japan and pricing and that the impact of the old contract has -- we didn't suffer a material impact as the way the fuel oil is priced to the utilities during the second quarter but we still need to get resolution of that.
So we are very hopeful that not only will we get resolution shortly.
And then secondly that we'll get -- have it go back in time to the time that we reached agreement commercial agreement with the 2 utilities and that's still what we're striving to do.
The second part of your question Doug around Hawaii is Hawaii we are looking very very carefully at Hawaii and how it -- will perform with the changes you see going on particularly in Asia with the way crude is pricing and the high demand for crude oil in Asia and that in Hawaii.
It's a tough asset to get it to perform where we need it to.
So we need to look very seriously at how -- what things we can do.
We laid out some things last year at our analyst presentation that show improvements.
One was the contract that you mentioned.
The other is some things that we can do.
They both contributed about 1/2 to the improvement efforts there.
But it doesn't have a lot of upside.
Hawaii doesn't have a lot of upside.
We need to get it to where we can drive those improvements in the business and then see how it fits in with what we're trying to do because it doesn't -- it just doesn't have the upside that some of our other assets do.
Got it.
The only other one I have is I think the WTI brand or LLS situation is fairly well understood.
But the West Coast some of your San Joaquin Valley crudes are clearly trading at substantial discounts to ANS which is your benchmark.
Can you just talk a little about what you see as the underlying sustainability of those kind of differentials? Because I think perhaps the advantage that you have on the West Coast is maybe not fully understood at this point.
So a little bit of discussion around how sustainable you think that is and I'll leave it there.
Yes I think Doug we I mean we see pretty good support for the differentials where they're trading around $8 a barrel right now.
So I think it's like everywhere else particularly with what's happening in the crude dynamics on the inland crudes in that we think it's reasonably sustainable going into the foreseeable future here.
And the mechanics behind it? Well obviously there's a glut around Cushing but there's no glut around Alaska.
So what do you see as the underlying cause? Now just the ability to bring the other foreign crudes into the market in California that are attractively priced for not only ourselves but other people that put the support for the differential.
It's a competition of crudes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow of Macquarie.
Greg I want to go back to the analyst day presentation back in December and you identified integrating refining and marketing systems as a weakness in each of your regions.
I was wondering can give us an update on any initiatives that you've taken to address this? Yes we've actually been pretty active addressing that in the markets the last little bit here.
So we are doing 2 or 3 things.
One we've actually which we'll probably -- I don't have the numbers with me but we've actually been pretty successful in the last little bit of contractually extending both some existing customers with higher volumes for longer periods of time as well as some new customers with volumes which adds about 30 000 barrels a day in total with 20 000 barrels a day of it being new volumes which are unlike 3-year contract terms.
So that's one part of what we've been able to do in the first part of this year which will support our integration as you talked about there.
The second thing is we are out looking for opportunities to drive further integration and considering a bunch of different alternatives that are smaller things but in total they really support some of the areas where we're weak like the Pacific Northwest.
We need to grow our integration around Mandan with the expansion of the crude and that.
So we're seeing pretty good success in the market to capture additional marketing support which will allow us to drive higher integration.
And Greg in the PNW I think you mentioned increasing exports to the Pacific Rim.
Has there been progress on this to date? We are actively looking at things Chi that we are -- have been for the last few months.
So we're in a good place of going about that.
But I can't talk about those commercial discussions.
But we are -- the idea that we have there we are actively pursuing that.
Okay.
Have you been exporting ratably out of the West Coast to foreign markets South America and/or Asia? We have contracts in place that allow us to export out of the West Coast both gasoline and distillate yes.
Okay.
Great and any update on utilizing the Panama assets further here? Actually in the first quarter we actually had a reasonably good quarter with -- using the Panama assets.
As you recall we basically said the value of those assets are really fourfold.
One was to take advantage of transportation logistics where we could move crude across the Panama Canal either for ourselves or some of other commercial customers.
The second thing is there were some opportunities during the quarter that allow us to play the contango in the crude market which provided opportunities.
We've also been able to look at some distressed cargoes that allow us to position them for our systems.
So the activity level around Panama in the first quarter had actually worked out pretty well for us.
And we continue to actively work that not only for our own system but in some commercial relationships that we're trying to develop.
So it got off to a good start actually.
Okay.
And is that an asset that you can contribute into the -- to Tesoro Logistics at some point down the road? Chi our involvement with Panama is really just a contract for both capacity on the pipeline as well as storage.
That's not something that we would ever contribute into the MLP.
We have no intention to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler of CRT Capital Group.
A couple of questions.
First a follow-up in regards to potentially looking at returning cash to shareholders.
Certainly there are 2 options there a dividend or repurchasing stock.
Do you have currently existing anything outstanding an outstanding share repurchase program or would that be something that the board would have to authorize? Ann we do not have anything from the share repurchase program.
We do not have anything at all there.
I think just to be clear on our cash position we see the opportunity to pay down some debt and also a fair number of good opportunities that create a lot of value for the company that we're in early stages of evaluating but we'll share those as we go through the year.
So that's really where we stand from with our free cash flow right now.
No I perfectly understand that.
I just wanted to just get details on that one little area.
But no I clearly recognize that debt reduction and spending on your businesses is the key priority at the moment.
The other question that I had in regards to the additional volumes the 30 000 barrels a day volumes are those located in any one particular market? They're actually spread across most of our markets in both -- they're in California around our Salt Lake City refinery and a little bit around the Pacific Northwest.
So it's actually pretty good coverage.
We're actually very pleased with the progress we made there.
Because it's also both gasoline and diesel.
So it's a very good step in the first quarter.
Great.
Wonderful.
And then my last question you certainly noted that you did have a reduction in your costs by about $0.50 a barrel.
What exactly was that attributable to and is it sustainable? I mean it's attributable to 2 things.
One is higher run rate because it's on a per unit basis.
So to be clear we ran at higher run rate.
And as you know we had targeted some cost reductions for calendar year 2011 that we're continuing to work on.
So it's just been discipline around our operating cost spending.
We're very focused on continuing to drive improvements in our mechanical integrity of our assets but at the same time be very disciplined in our spending so those are the 2 things.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin of Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> I also want to circle back to the analyst day in December.
You guys mentioned yield enhancements were an important part of the improvement program.
It seems like that of all these initiatives could really move the needle especially in California.
But they're also -- they'd also be quite expensive as capital projects.
And I was just looking for an update there to see what direction you're going in from that standpoint? And sort of on a related note what does bottom of the barrel recovery look like in this kind of crude market up here? Is there a different way we should look at capture rates as far as some residuals in asphalt and things like that go? Let me turn the question over and let Dan answer your question.
Yes sure.
Regarding yields improvements you're right.
The structural improvements needed at the refineries to accomplish significant yield change do require capital.
The good news there is we've got several capital projects in the hopper that we're reviewing and do expect to make some significant improvement there.
The other way that we can capture yield improvement is by optimizing the way that we align our turnarounds and shutdowns of the units to eliminate the redundancy of loss throughput.
That allows us to run more third-party feedstock and convert it all into products.
And that's what you saw occur in the first quarter.
Regarding bottom of the barrel investment there are a few projects that we're looking at that aren't quite ready for discussion at this moment or at this time.
But they do take a look at grabbing more of the bottom of the barrel and turning it into gasoline and diesel largely on the West Coast.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And as far as pricing goes for that material now is there a wider loss or can you recover costs better than maybe some people could expect in this current crude market? Yes the things that we're looking at Sam the price differentials and that are supportive of what we're trying to do maybe by changing some of the types of crudes to produce less bottoms and get the upgrading of both gasoline and diesel like Dan talked about there.
So there's light-heavy spreads in that where they are supportive of what we're trying to do.
And your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
It's good to see Anacortes up for the full quarter and profitable.
Maybe to follow up on some of Greg's comments on other capital projects relating to Anacortes.
And maybe it's too early but as you think about better crude sourcing options or opportunities in conjunction with Tesoro Logistics do you see an opportunity to get Bakken crudes into Anacortes and if you could potentially to mention that potential opportunity the kind of scope scale cost maybe? Yes I mean there's no question Evan that we are looking -- we look at every opportunity to take some things where we can gain advantage in crude.
One of the things that we think is the strength of what we have is we talk a lot about our advantage position and so places where we can take either Bakken crude or black wax crude in Salt Lake which we've talked about trying to run more of that and also look at something like moving Bakken to the Pacific Northwest.
Those are definitely all the things that we are actually seriously seriously looking at.
We see some opportunities.
Well via rail would be the primary potential there right? I mean that -- yes to get to Anacortes the only way you could get there economically is by rail.
But I think we need to be clear.
I mean we're driven more by the opportunity to capture the refining value.
That's what we're really driven by.
So we're looking at all types of different crudes in that because -- to gain those advantages.
Sure now of course.
I mean on the other side and I know you touched on it a little bit earlier but I just didn't if you could -- you clearly had some early success Greg but could you give us an update on your program here for $300 million of kind of EBITDA operational improvements how's that trending 5 months in and did you see -- do you see some upside on the operations side in the kind of capital project side? I think what we see as you recall there were about 5 major initiatives that we were undertaking.
And at this point in time particularly through the first quarter we feel like we're on track to deliver everything that we said we have.
To me the encouraging thing is that both Dan and myself alluded here is that as we've got more into it and looked at things for different opportunities what we're seeing is some other opportunities to do enhancements to the assets that will add value that haven't been built into those plans.
We won't realize those in 2011 but it's encouraging some of the things that our people are identifying that are probably a little bit bigger than some of the small capital improvement projects but can be implemented and add a lot of value that like I said earlier aren’t driven by refining margins but maybe more by gaining crude advantages or other things.
So to me that's pretty positive.
And we'll progress those through the year and when it's appropriate share what we are looking at.
Your next question comes from the line of Jacques Rousseau of RBC.
LLC</strong> Just wanted to check on the guidance for the second quarter.
What jumped out at me was the big move up in the Pacific Northwest volumes.
I'm assuming that's mostly Anacortes.
And I'd just like to get your view if demand stays somewhat constant how should we see those volumes moving forward? Yes for the second quarter I mean you're right Anacortes is projected to have strong run rates there in the region.
There's some refinery downtime in that that's allowing us to capture -- other companies have some downtime that allows us to capture a favorable environment.
So we're running strong at Anacortes during the second quarter and we'll just -- it's actually worked well since we brought the refinery back up in that and we'll continue to monitor that.
We're really focused on being able to find homes for the products that we run there.
So that's a continuing focus of what we're trying to do there.
So it looks encouraging.
LLC</strong> So do you think the subsequent quarters will be at this level or as you said some of this is due to other downtime? Yes I don't know if it'll be as high as what we're doing in the second quarter we'll see as we get there.
But it will -- according to our plans and that it will be at a pretty reasonable level in the third and fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> Great.
One more question for you.
You mentioned that retail same-store sales were down I believe you said 1% in the first quarter.
That’s correct.
LLC</strong> And I just wanted to see how they were trending in April? Yes they're under pressure after the end of the first quarter.
So they're down a little bit more than that going into the second quarter with – as prices have gone up in that.
And your next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Greg question for you on Mandan.
The economics there look pretty attractive as far as $35 million for 10 000 barrels per day.
Is the constraint on the facility as far as constraint meaning going over and above that or is it really on the distribution through the shale network? Let me -- I'll let Dan answer that question Blake.
Yes Blake what we've done in the Mandan from the capital expansion is expand the crude end or the -- a crude unit at the front end of the unit all the way up to the limits of the secondary processing units and got a little creative on the back end there to make that happen.
Additional capacity at Mandan requires significant capital investment well beyond the crude unit.
So that's what makes this project so attractive and low cost is it's a small investment in just the front end of the processing.
Okay so it sounds like to go over and above it's not really something you're looking at at this time? That's correct.
Okay.
And then secondly with regard to the debt-to-cap I know you're at about 37% at the end of the quarter a few moving pieces with the MLP and then paying off the note due in '12 I'm just curious if you happen to have a current net debt-to-cap with the debt paid down and then the removal of some equity for the MLP? I'll let Scott respond to that question Blake.
Yes.
It's going to reduce our total debt to total cap by a couple percentage points given what we've just done in paying down the junior subs.
I don't have it on a net debt-to-cap basis in front of me.
But on a net debt-to-cap basis it's probably in the low 30% range at this point.
Okay.
So you're already working your way pretty close to the 30% or at least in that direction still? Yes the 30% is a total debt to total cap target.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng of Barclays.
I have a number of question maybe start out with some balance sheet items.
Can you tell me what is the market value of inventory in excess of the working capital in long-term debt? It's about $1.9 billion.
Okay.
Just in excess of both.
How about working capital? Working capital is about $661 million.
Okay.
The long-term debt component of the total debt? $1.82 billion.
$1.82 billion 1-0-8-2 right? No 1-8.
Just call it $1.8 billion Paul.
Okay.
All right.
And Scott on the second quarter guidance on the $14 million related to the early debt redemption are you guys going to treat it as a special item when you report it? Yes it'll be in our interest expense charge and I mean we can pull it out.
No but I mean it doesn't matter.
I just want to see what is the -- what you guys are going to do so that we do correspondingly in our estimates so are you going to include it as normal operation or are you going to...
No we'll treat it as a special item.
You're going to treat it as a special item? Okay.
Yes.
And from a reporting standpoint with Tesoro Logistics are you going to report it as a separate -- as a Tesoro Logistics and then pull out the corresponding revenue or operating profit from the Mid-Continent refining system? Or how exactly the reporting going to look like going forward? It will be consolidated.
There will be significant additional disclosure in the 10-Q around that in terms of the balance sheet impact minority interest those kinds of things.
But in terms of the actual reporting format you are not going to change from the current method? So in other words you're not going to have a separate line called Tesoro Logistics or a Logistics segment? Well for Tesoro Corp.
again it will be consolidated.
Of course Tesoro Logistics will have their own financial statements.
Right I fully understand.
My question is that in the Tesoro Inc.
are you going to when you report it now that you report refining retail in the segment earning will you be reporting refining and then retail and Logistic in that way? No.
You're not.
Okay.
And Greg I hear what you say about the use of cash and the CapEx.
And in addition to Mandan if we're looking at Salt Lake City is there any opportunity there to expand that? Or the crude capacity is already pretty match up with the conversion unit and so that to really expand it is going to be too costly? I will let Dan respond to your question here.
You're probably right on the additional crude capacity.
But we do have projects that allow us to run more black wax.
And we're actually looking at those projects right now.
They look relatively interesting.
At the moment we're not quite ready to say that they're a sure go.
Dan what kind of the magnitude that we may be talking about here? Is it running another 5 000 barrels per day 10 000 any kind of rough number that you can share? Sure.
The range we're that we're at right now is let's say about 10 000 barrels a day.
And the opportunities we're looking at could increase that in the range of let's say 50%.
Okay.
So it's another 5 000 barrels.
Okay.
And Dan or Greg that in addition to that project is there any other more meaningful cap expanding project that is currently on the table being evaluated? I'm sorry.
Can you just repeat the question Paul? No in addition to in Salt Lake talking about the increased use of the crude there is there any other maybe a little bit more substantial CapEx spending projects that is currently on the table being evaluated by the company? Across our system we have a few projects a handful of projects less than $100 million each that we're looking at at the refinery.
So there's probably 4 or 5 other projects which are not big projects but probably some from $50 million to some up to $100 million that are refineries that we're looking at which will as we go through and further work those they're in certain stages of engineering that impact the refineries both in California Salt Lake stuff in Mandan so across our system we're really looking at everything there Paul.
I think it's encouraging that the things that we're looking at are really driven to either provide additional crude advantage or other advantages.
But they're not really driven by -- they're not dependent upon the margin.
That's great.
Greg are you at the stage that you can share some of that with us now or would you rather wait? No but we will.
We will be and relatively soon in the next little bit here.
Some of the projects we'll come out and make those aware once we get the engineering done and the cost estimates to a point where we understand the economics.
So we're progressing well on those projects.
And Greg in terms of using cash of course I mean talking about returning to the shareholder but the other component is that in addition to the organic could be in the inorganic through acquisition.
Can you talk about your view how acquisition play in the overall strategy of the company over the next say 3 to 4 years and what kind of criteria that you will put before you would consider a particular acquisition? I think Paul we as part of all of our strategic work that we did last year is we have looked at the entire market place for opportunities that make sense.
And we see some possible opportunities.
The criteria that we are really driven by are projects that may fit in strategically with what we do.
So that means that they really stay in our market area where we can gain advantages through our system through either the crude supply that we can take advantage of or the distribution into the markets to really increase our presence in the markets we're in.
So we've been very clear to say that we don't look -- we're not looking at anything on the East Coast or Gulf Coast of the United States.
So you kind of draw the area that we target there.
So the criteria are that they have to be very strategic and fit in with our business model.
They have to be very value-accretive.
And we also like things that are more integrated where it's not just a refinery but where it is a total refining marketing and transportation assets.
And Greg what kind of debt-to-capital ratio that you will tolerate in the short term when you do an acquisition? We have to look at the individual opportunities and -- as we model them and see what they would be because there are different ways to do the things we're looking at Paul.
I don't think it's -- it's probably a little bit premature to comment on that specific question.
Okay.
That's fine.
And one final one Scott on the Tesoro Logistics is there any kind of information you can share with us in the first quarter? What is the -- on a pro forma basis what is the operating profit or revenue from that business? No Paul I can't really comment beyond what's in the prospectus on that.
We will be filing first quarter 10-Q here later in the month.
And in the 10-Q when you file it are you going to have additional information on the Tesoro Logistics? Yes I mean there will be a separate 10-Q filed for Tesoro Logistics later this month.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
On the disposal side I was wondering how aggressive the interest has been in buying some of your assets and even whether you've had interest in an overall company takeover from others? No we're not aware of any interest.
And what about I guess the individual assets you must have some pretty aggressive interest? We have had no inquiries.
Oh really? Okay.
What was the assumption for the discounts? I mean I guess it was a very easy decision to expand Mandan but I was wondering what your assumptions are.
You've talked a lot about how you're not relying on the market to help you out.
But I guess you just -- you have to make some sort of assumptions.
And what I'm really thinking is that with you expanding with you talking about rail with the producers talking about rail with the pipelines coming in how do you see those discounts developing going forward? What we see Paul specifically around the Bakken play is that one of the advantages we have in addition to having the refinery there is that we have the crude gathering and pipeline system so that being able to collect by the crude at the well head is a big advantage.
And that we see that over time if you look at the market for Mandan crude being the Gulf Coast United States we see about an $8 differential over time that would -- which reflects the transportation costs to get the crude to the Gulf Coast.
That's the kind of differential we see at the well head.
Yes that’s been my idea is that regardless of the short-term infrastructure issues the simple fact is the transportation distance cost advantage that you've got? Right.
No more complicated than that right and you think that's about $8? Around there yes.
Great.
On the demand side people have talked about weather; you mentioned some weakness in California.
Could you just do the usual runaround of how things are developing? And I just wondered because I think the weather has been a pretty dramatic impact here on some of the demand numbers we've been seeing particularly for gasoline? Yes.
I think not in our particular market areas the weather hasn't had an impact around our system from a demand standpoint.
So we have not been impacted by that.
So California like you mentioned Paul is not improving.
We haven't seen substantial weaknesses worse than that.
But with the unemployment rate staying above 12% now we haven't seen big changes in California except for now as prices started to come up we are seeing some of our retail sales go down a little bit but we were not impacted by weather.
Sounds like the price impact hasn't been that dramatic for you.
I mean it doesn't sound great but it hasn't been a disaster.
In the first quarter it definitely wasn’t.
It was around slightly less than 1% and then probably getting a little bit more impact in April and May.
But it hasn't been that painful yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Citarrella of Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of quick ones following up on the last one in demand.
Could you quantify what it's been in April maybe and where you see it heading in terms of demand? And then just to be able to give us a sense of your participation in the export markets during the quarter and maybe where commercial agreements could take you even if it's just a rough order of magnitude kind of estimate at this point? Yes Joe your first question on demand I mean so far it's probably been a little bit greater than 1% on our system.
I don't have that with me right now.
We've had pretty good growth in our marketing demand because of what we're trying to do total.
But on the same -- on a comparable basis year-over-year it's greater than 1%.
But I don't have that with me to know what the exact percent is.
It's a little bit higher than that.
And then the second our export activity is actually off the West Coast has stayed pretty constant.
We think the industry takes about 40 000 barrels a day of gasoline and about 50 000 barrels a day of diesel off of the West Coast and we have contracts that we participate in both products going south.
It's been pretty...
Any idea where of this will range commercial agreements could take you? Not into Mexico or South America not additional things unless you have some disruption that causes increased demand.
We don't think there's a lot of upside there.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Gilman of Benchmark.
LLC</strong> I had a couple things.
Greg it would appear just based on the capital outlook that there's a fairly significant second-half turnaround schedule and thus lower operating rates than certainly we have seen first quarter second quarter? Could you comment on that at all? I mean you're right Mark.
Our turnaround spending was relatively low in the first quarter partly because we were able to take and move Golden Eagle turnaround out of the first quarter and capture the higher margins.
And so we have higher turnaround spending in the -- just going out into the second half of the year.
But we also continue to look at that and try to optimize that turnaround spending.
So from our planning standpoint right now our forecasts are kind of what we shared with everyone.
But we are trying really trying to optimize that based upon how we can capture some advantages there.
Any guess as to what a second half operating rate might look like Greg? I haven't looked at it that closely getting out to the second half right now.
Like I told you the second quarter we see running at about 90% crude utilization.
But we'll have to just look and see what it looks like for the second half of the year.
I don't have that with me Mark.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Different subject Greg I'm a little bit puzzled by this issue of crude discounts and advantages on the West Coast.
I guess basically because in our tracking it looks to me as if some of the imported heavies the Napo for example and even Kern in terms of the San Joaquin Valley these crudes seemed to have disconnected from WTI and I guess I haven't really seen any significant changes in the relationship versus ANS.
Can you discuss this just a little bit or is my perception or characterization just completely off the mark? I'll let Louie respond to your question.
Mark it's Louie.
Those discounts specifically for the South Americans have widened out both year-over-year and sequentially.
I think it's at least $2 is kind of what we're seeing.
So I mean that's kind of identifying the South America portion.
Was there -- were you talking about another crude as well? LLC</strong> Well I thought that in Greg's remarks he mentioned San Joaquin as well? Definitely.
If you look at -- it did disconnect from WTI the San Joaquin Valleys did.
However as you compare those relative to ANS they have widened out.
I think we're looking at around $8 or so discount to ANS which is the appropriate benchmark on the West Coast.
So I mean that was -- and that's more attractive than it has been recently in past quarters.
So we did see an advantage.
LLC</strong> Did you make any changes in the California crude slate as a result of these pricing relationships? No we have not.
We've been running pretty comparable crudes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Final one for me relates to the Logistics partnership.
I guess I'm curious a little bit as to how you settled on 48% being the right amount to sell and what the longer-term intent Greg might be in terms of the retention of the remaining interest? The intent there Mark was to really go up and have that same with the general partner owning 2% and then our ownership and then the public interest is kind of almost a kind of a traditional MLP approach is what we took when we put that together there.
So there's nothing more complicated to it than that.
We felt like that was the right ownership percentages.
And our intent over time is to keep that relationship the same the ownership percentages the same.
We're very much focused -- our focus really is to be able to take our logistics assets and use that as a platform to grow the business to really support our refining and marketing.
LLC</strong> So there wouldn't be any intent to divest your interest down further? We don't have any intent to do that at this point in time.
LLC</strong> Was I incorrect in assuming that the time you announced you were going to proceed in this direction that you had contemplated a much lower public interest or is that just my failing memory? I don't know where you got that from.
We never talked about that at all actually.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to circle back on the operating cost real quick.
I know you don't typically give a lot of guidance on that.
But given the Tesoro Logistics is obviously not out there can you just give us a little bit of color as to how the unit operating costs and maybe the total operating costs should trend from the second quarter or maybe a sequential comparison would be most useful? Doug if you're asking about the impact of the Logistics business on our expenses there shouldn't be any impact at all.
It shouldn't be material? What about overall generally in terms of your progress in reducing costs from a self-help standpoint? I'm thinking more about your breakeven level.
You're targeting a breakeven margin by 2013 of about $1.50 below where it is right now so maybe an update on that.
I'll leave it there.
We're still focused like I mentioned earlier on one of the other questions Doug on driving those areas that we've targeted to drive improvements we're still very focused on being able to do that.
We don't see any changes at this point in time to where our targets are.
Is there a progress report Greg into what you've achieved so far? What we're going to do Doug it's the first quarter it's early in the year.
But our full intent is as that we get into the next quarter and further on with those things 5 areas that we targeted we'll be very clear about the progress we're making on those areas.
We just wanted more history behind us.
I understand.
I know it's a big deal for your intel on management performance so I guess you're monitoring it pretty closely.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Tesoro Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janada and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janada.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our second quarter 2011 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I will turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
During the second quarter we again increased refinery utilization rates running total crude oil throughput to 578 000 barrels per day or about 87% of total capacity the highest level since the third quarter of 2008.
This allowed us to more fully capture strong crack spreads and advantage discounts on crude oil.
We made good progress on our improvement initiative to drive EBITDA growth with another quarter of gross margin improvement in excess of the market gains.
The combined results is reflected in our very good second quarter earnings of $1.65 per diluted share excluding special items the most profitable quarter for Tesoro since the third quarter of 2008.
This strong financial performance along with the successful initial public offering of Tesoro Logistics during the quarter allowed us to pay down $244 million of debt taking us to less than 31% of total debt to total capitalization moving closer to our goal of below 30%.
We also announced our plans to take Bakken crude oil to our Anacortes refinery allowing us to leverage our advantaged logistical position in North Dakota as well as provide a high-quality lower-cost feedstock supply to Anacortes.
Relative to ANS crude oil Bakken crude oil yields about 16% more clean products and less fuel oil.
During the second quarter the differential between those products was about $28 per barrel providing a more than $4 per barrel overall advantage.
Similarly today we are announcing a project to replace the vacuum distillation unit at our Los Angeles refinery which will allow us to improve clean product yields and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We expect to shift just under 1% of the refinery yield from petroleum coke production to clean products.
During the second quarter the differential between those products was about $100 per barrel.
These projects are good examples of how we are driving system improvements designed to achieve high returns short payback periods and deliver sustainable earnings.
Also during the quarter we received approval from the Public Utilities Commission in Hawaii regarding the revised fuel oil supply contracts with both Hawaiian Electric Company and Kalaeloa Partners.
Our priorities relative to our cash position are to: one further strengthen our balance sheet with additional debt reduction; two invest in business improvements designed to yield high-yield high-sustainable returns with short payback periods; and three maintain a prudent cash balance to continue to take advantage of commercial opportunities to drive a high capture rate.
Turning to the quarter industry crack spreads were up year-over-year and our refining gross margin were up even more.
The second quarter average Tesoro Index gained over $2 per barrel.
Feedstock cost advantage particularly in the mid-continent drove the benchmark index higher during the quarter.
West Coast benchmark crack spreads were generally flat both sequentially and year-over-year.
Incremental U.S.
exports of distillates and the continued global economic recovery provided support to distillate crack spreads during the quarter.
However rising retail street prices which peaked in early May tempered gasoline demand.
Capture rates were very strong in the quarter driven by significantly advantaged crude oil costs relative to benchmark grades for crude oil.
On the West Coast we continue to capture wider discounts for heavy crude oil both domestic and foreign grades particularly as compared to the West Coast benchmark ANS which got expensive during the quarter.
In the mid-continent high levels of domestic crude oil inventories increased the discounts for these grades relative to benchmark such as Light Louisiana Sweet.
For the quarter our realized gross margin was $16 per barrel excluding the gain from business interruption insurance proceeds on a Tesoro Index that averaged $12.18 per barrel.
This was achieved despite turnaround activity at our Golden Eagle refinery.
As I stated earlier throughput rates during the quarter averaged 578 000 barrels per day or 87% of total crude oil capacity.
This is up from 561 000 barrels per day or 84% for the first quarter this year.
This improvement marks another sequential increase in refinery utilization rates a key priority for the company.
Manufacturing costs in the second quarter averaged $5.23 per barrel excluding the benefit of $5 million in property damage insurance proceeds essentially flat from the first quarter.
We are making progress on lowering our operating cost and expect our per barrel number to continue to decline over time.
However we expect to see an increase in spending this year as a result of our improvement plans to strengthen asset integrity and maintain high reliability.
In December of last year we shared our plans around process safety management.
Most of our asset assessment is complete and we are implementing improvements as well as making changes based on the lessons learned from the April 2010 incident at our Anacortes refinery.
Retail marketing margins were up during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is typical in a falling crude price environment.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up 14% year-over-year reflecting growth in the company's branded jobber and dealer segment.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were down 2% relative to last year as a result of rising retail street prices on gasoline demand.
More recently street prices in California have fallen more than $0.45 per gallon from the early May high and are now below the $4 per gallon level.
Accordingly we started to see an improvement in sales volume through our retail stations.
In July volumes were essentially flat with last year.
As we mentioned in our earnings release our pretax corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $34 million before $2 million in corporate depreciation and $18 million in noncash stock-based compensation credit primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
This number is down significantly from last year and it reflects the changes we made to our corporate overhead.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $63 million.
Turnaround spending was $46 million.
We still expect -- excuse me we still expect to spend about $380 million in capital in 2011 including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
This includes spending on our recently announced refinery projects where most of the spending will be in 2012.
We have adjusted our turnaround plan for 2011 and now expect to spend about $110 million which is down by approximately $50 million relative to our prior guidance.
As we look forward we remain reasonably positive about market conditions.
From a crack spread perspective the first half of the year exceeded our expectations.
Additionally seasonally typical U.S.
light product inventories combined with strong exports should continue to provide support to refining margins.
Putting the market aside we are capturing opportunities to drive significant value from our existing asset base.
We have established strategic priorities that are focused on driving free cash flow strengthening the competitive position of the company and increasing shareholder value.
In all we've targeted over $225 million in EBITDA growth from these efforts in 2011.
Combine that with our increased refinery runs strong margin capture and Anacortes being back online for a full year positions us to deliver significant EBITDA growth this year over 2010.
In fact if you look at our reported results for the first half of 2011 EBITDA is up nearly $700 million year-over-year.
We recognize that the market has improved.
Year-to-date the Tesoro Index has gained $3.65 per barrel relative to the first half of last year.
Using 2010 throughput rates that would imply an incremental gross margin of about $300 million attributable to the market improvement.
Similarly if we take the year-over-year increase in throughput rates systemwide of 98 000 barrels per day at the 2011 average Tesoro Index that would imply an incremental gross margin of about $200 million attributable to higher run rates.
The remaining $200 million in year-to-date incremental EBITDA is primarily attributable to the execution of our 2011 improvement initiative and the insurance proceeds from the Anacortes incident.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for more detailed discussions of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the third quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night second quarter net income was $218 million or $1.52 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we're reporting an adjusted net income of $237 million or $1.65 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include: after-tax $23 million in business interruption and property damage insurance proceeds $30 million related to the write-off of expenses associated with the change in scope of a cogeneration project in our Los Angeles refinery and $12 million in onetime interest expense related to the repayment of $244 million in debt during the quarter.
That compares to an adjusted net income in the second quarter last year of $43 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
Special items last year included after-tax benefits of $26 million related to our postretirement benefit changes $7 million related to expense accruals in asset write-offs at our Anacortes refinery and $5 million related to a onetime state tax settlement.
Our cash unit expenses before noncash credits related to stock-based compensation are coming down as we expected.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $607 million and remained undrawn on the corporate revolver with over $1.1 billion of excess capacity.
As Greg mentioned we ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of less than 31% down 6 percentage points from the first quarter due in large part to the repayment of $244 million in debt.
We already announced the redemption of the $150 million junior subordinated notes due in 2012 but during the quarter we also retired through open market purchases $94 million of our 6.25% senior notes due in 2012.
The decrease in cash for the quarter was $117 million and reflects EBITDA of $519 million less working capital and other uses of $472 million less interest and tax payments of $124 million less capital and turnaround spending of $109 million and a cash flow benefit of $69 million from the IPO of Tesoro Logistics net of debt repayment and revolver borrowings during the quarter.
The use of cash from working capital in the quarter reflects mainly timing associated with carrying a higher level of crude oil and product inventory in our system.
Much of that use of cash has already been recovered here in July with cash at the end of the July at about $900 million.
During the second quarter we settled the property damage claim.
We have collected $17 million net of the deductible including $5 million in the second quarter.
We are still negotiating a final settlement regarding the business interruption claim.
We have collected $87 million net of the deductibles including $32 million in the second quarter.
Turning to our outlook for the third quarter high PADD finery utilization rates and lackluster gasoline demand has led to a recent build in light product inventories on the West Coast.
This has resulted in West Coast product prices trading in a discount to the U.S.
Gulf Coast and created an arbitrage trading opportunity for exports.
We have already began to see the market rebalance with the incremental light product exports off the West Coast in July and August.
In the mid-continent gasoline and diesel crack spreads remain strong and are up sequentially and year-over-year.
I'll close with guidance for the third quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest 65 to 75 in the Mid-Pacific 110 to 120 in the mid-continent and 240 to 250 in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the third quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $3.80 in the Pacific Northwest $2.90 in the Mid-Pacific $3.60 in the mid-con and $6.85 in the California region.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $95 million.
Additional third quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense including depreciation of $34 million and interest expense before interest income of $36 million.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our very good second quarter results.
This marks another quarter where we delivered on our plans and significantly improved the business as part of our strategic priorities as we laid out in December of last year.
Looking to the third quarter we expect to increase throughput rates capture additional marketing opportunities to drive a higher level of refining and marketing integration and identify and implement high-return short-payback capital projects to strengthen our competitive position and generate additional free cash flow.
We look forward to sharing progress updates as we get further into the year.
With that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Ed Westlake with Crédit Suisse.
I just had 2 questions.
I guess the first one is around performance on CapEx.
Obviously historically there's been a higher CapEx burden out in the West Coast but you seem to be doing a good job of sort of improving the capital efficiency.
Where as you look out today do you see sort of the maintenance CapEx and turnaround CapEx settling out relative to perhaps prior guidance? The turnaround that we gave Ed in our system is the $110 million.
We've changed it around a little bit because we've tried to optimize our turnaround schedule between this year and next year and we're currently working on our plans for turnaround for 2012.
And those aren't completely developed yet so at this point in time our guidance for 2012 isn't unchanged from what we said last year when we talked about our plans for 2012 which was higher than 2011.
Maintenance CapEx across our whole system for regulatory and maintaining our asset integrity is unchanged from what we've talked about previously.
I mean we still plan to stay pretty close from a maintenance and CapEx -- maintenance and regulatory standpoint with our DD&amp;A kind of in that targeted range across our system.
And our big focus as we've said is to continue to find these income-producing projects that allow us to really get sustainable returns that are really short payback in that.
So that's where we stand.
Okay.
And then a follow-up just on margins.
I mean they have come up a little bit in the West Coast recently.
Is that just good utilization across the industry or are you seeing any signs of sort of California demand weakening as we start seeing some -- elsewhere in the U.S.? Yes I'll let Dan Romasko answer that question.
We think it is primarily due to refinery utilization being up.
When we actually look at our retail year-on-year same-store sales we're actually seeing a recovery relative to second quarter to the point that we're currently about 1% under on a year-over-year basis.
And that includes actually a growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
I was -- I wanted to follow up on the rail project economics and try to get a feel for what differential you need to justify that project and what the payout period is on the project.
Yes I think we made a couple of points during the call there.
One is that if you look at the yield advantage of Bakken to ANS crude the numbers we feel are pretty consistent over time with the -- less we said that the Bakken crude oil will produce.
So we get that yield advantage which we believe is pretty sustainable over time.
The second thing is if you look at the transportation cost we believe that over the longer term as the logistics in the mid-continent region work out and if the differential rating will settle around the rail cost to the Gulf Coast the numbers are as that we can actually move Bakken crude to Anacortes at a less transportation cost than you can to the Gulf Coast.
So we see a twofold advantage one is in transportation.
We have an advantage secondly in yield.
What is that transportation cost from Bakken to Anacortes? If you look at the tariff from the railroads in that there's about $1 advantage difference.
It's about -- it's a little bit less than $8 to go to Bakken and a little bit more than that to the Gulf Coast $1 more.
Great.
Yet it's a shorter distance it appears and the rates or lower going west than going south.
I think it has maybe to do with somewhat the interchange fees.
We just use the one railroad going west versus going 2 railroads going south in that also.
Is there any update or any change to the Mandan expansion? Mandan expansion is progressing extremely well and as we've said in the past second quarter of '12 we'll be operational.
And it looks very good from everything at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Several quick questions Greg.
In Salt Lake is there any kind of a similar opportunity for expansion as Mandan or that -- not really ? Paul we've -- I think we've said in the past amongst across our whole system we are very aggressive in looking at everything we can to make the business stronger.
In Salt Lake because of some advantaged crude supply with the black wax crude in that it does provide opportunities that we're currently evaluating.
We just haven't arrived at any conclusions yet.
But there are some possibilities there that we're in the process of evaluating.
Is it in the similar scale as on Mandan? Or that may have a bigger potential? It's probably a little bit too early to comment on that yet but there are some good opportunities there.
We just haven't completed all of our engineering work and analysis yet.
When you think that you may be able to have a more definitive view on that? Sometime during the second half of the year quite for sure.
So before the year end? Yes.
And in addition to the L.A.
vacuum tower do you -- also Greg mentioned you're looking at across the systems at any kind of fast payback projects.
Is there anything that you can share at this point that maybe some of those projects that what you have maybe looking at? I'm sorry in addition to the vacuum tower project at Los Angeles are there other...
You're talking about across the system that you're looking very hard at how to strengthen and doing some relatively fast payback projects.
I know that it's early and it may be premature but is there anything that you can share with us that what type of projects or that you may be looking at? It's just too early to go over those Paul so we can make sure we just finish our work.
But we do have a few opportunities that look very encouraging and we'll be able to share those during the second half of the year.
So we were advancing both our evaluation and some preliminary engineering work to get an idea about stuff.
But there are some good opportunities.
In Bakken when we're talking about 30 000 barrels per day how are we coming up with that number? Is it a limitation on -- given the Anacortes also running some Canadian oil and all that is that a limitation as a result that at most that you can very cost effectively to this space maybe up to 30 000 barrel per day? Or is that the limitation on the railroad capacity? No it's just when we look at the overall system of what we acquire and the logistics by using the unit trains and turning the unit trains with the amount of 30 000 barrels over that distance in a number of rail cars that we use and being able to handle them at the refinery the logistics kind of dictate the level of Bakken crude that we run at Anacortes.
So it's then logistics.
It's not so much about how much more that Anacortes whether that they can process more than 30 000 barrels per day of Bakken.
We could probably do more if we need -- if we get our logistics system worked out.
Those rail unit train projects they're actually pretty highly efficient in that.
So even moving 30 000 barrels a day is quite -- you have 120 rail cars going pretty constantly in that.
But the crude that we're -- that Bakken crude will effectively either displace foreign export foreign imports or it would replace ANS crude.
So no real differences from a crude slate standpoint.
And Greg and also the last 2 years if we look at at least based on our own benchmark indicator California and Pacific Northwest your margin capture rate has improved quite drastically.
And I think a lot of them may be related to your crude purchase how -- what type of crude you purchase and how you did it.
And I think that you've been dramatically reduced the use of the ANS and replacing it with other type of oil.
Can you try to help us to quantify that how much is the ANS you was -- let's say running in those 2 system before mid of 2009? And how much is that you've been running since then? I'll let Dan address that question for you.
Yes sure.
The -- if you take a look at those refineries as you're aware they're high-complexity coke refineries so the actual crude slate is certainly weighted to the discount-heavy crudes.
Our typical slate there is 70% heavy 20% light and the remainder is non-crude feedstocks like get gasols [ph] et cetera.
The actual make up of the heavy and the light slate is dependent on the market opportunity at the time that we repurchase the crude.
Subsequently we run very little to no ANS in those plants and I don't have at my fingertips what the volume was back in 2009 but certainly today and what we see in the ANS market going forward that we're going to continue to run little ANS.
Dan is that -- the information Dan on the historical in compared to today is that you guys would be willing to share? On the ANS I believe we can.
Okay.
Scott can you give me some balance sheet data: the working capital the market value of inventory in excess of the book and the long-term debt portion of your total debt? Sure.
Working capital was $1.152 billion that includes cash.
Without cash it was $600 million.
The excess market value over book was $1.9 billion.
I'm sorry Paul what was the other thing you were looking for? The long-term debt portion of your total debt.
Yes $1.7 billion.
$1.7 billion also? Right.
Okay.
And maybe this is for either Greg or Dan.
For the second half of this year and the first half next year is there any major turnarounds we should be aware? Regarding the third quarter our turnaround load is relatively light.
And guidance on fourth quarter and subsequent quarters I think we'll hold off on that for the time being.
Okay.
A final one.
Scott you guys have some sizable hedging gains looks like around $83 million or about $1.80 $1.90 per barrel.
And I believe that the bulk of them probably is related to your foreign long-haul supply that time gap between when you have to fix the price and when you got delivery.
And so that should not impact -- what you're doing is that you're trying to matching your report earning similar to the spot margin calculation.
So I just want to make sure that our understanding is correct and that we should not need to take out those hedging gains in terms of projecting forward in our earnings estimate.
And also that within there how much is related to the inventory hedging? And how much is the further bond crude? Yes you're right Paul.
About 80% of that gain in the quarter relates to long-haul crude purchases.
And matching those costs with the day of refining margin as you said the rest actually relate mostly to our Tesoro Panama assets and protecting the value of those barrels while they're in transit through the system.
And then really only a very small percentage are related to managing product inventory length.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow with Macquarie Capital.
A couple of questions here.
On the Los Angeles project can you explain how you can fabricate a unit complete the installation about a year all for $40 million? It seems almost too good to be true.
What's the catch there? Yes sure I'll take that.
I think the short answer would be if we had to do all those things we couldn't.
We're quite fortunate in this case in that the vacuum tower itself was purchased and built by another refinery that couldn't complete the project.
So we're able to get that at a significantly discounted price.
Technically the project's quite simple.
You can think of that as a simple replacement of a vessel.
There's very little furnace or other modifications to install the project and due to the emission reduction rather than an emission increase the permitting process is streamlined significantly.
Okay great.
The greenhouse gas reduction that you anticipate does that satisfy demands under AB 32 going forward? No but it contributes.
It contributes okay.
Second question any thoughts on reinstating the regular dividend? Chi we've come back in and done a pretty comprehensive evaluation to determine whether reinstating a dividend would be something we'd want to do.
And at this point in time we have elected not to do that for 2 reasons.
One is that we have these projects to reinvest capital that are actually very very attractive from both the return and short payback and have good sustainable earnings associated with them.
And so our focus right now is to continue to de-lever and then to reinvest in these projects as we identify them so we can really execute de-lever and to increase our profitability.
And so at this point in time we do not intend to reinstate the dividend.
Okay Greg.
And final question I think this relates to Paul's question on the Tesoro Index.
Certainly in California it's not really indicative of your performance over the last few quarters.
Do you give any thought to changing that index to make it a little more useful for us and attract margins? I mean it's a good question Chi.
We were actually going back in and evaluating our indexes in that and just haven't completed that evaluation to be -- make them reflective of the market in that.
So we'll probably be able to share more with that about that during the second half of the year because we're just not done with that work yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
My questions are some follow-up on the bullet train to Anacortes.
Can you break down the real cost? Before you said the less that it was $8 a transport.
I presume that's in the BNF [ph] tariff at $6.75 plus loading and unloading fees is that correct? Yes the tariff is less than $8.
And then there's loading fees and unloading fees on top of that when we have a third party that we're loading as we've mentioned in our press release at in North Dakota.
And then we will just incur the additional costs -- it's I mean just some labor costs.
It's not that complicated an operation in our refinery in Anacortes.
But the loading and unloading is included in the under $8 transport? No it is not.
Okay so that's additional.
So you disclosed what the fees are? No we're not going to do that.
It's...
But you'll do it when you drop it into the MLP right? Well when we drop it in MLP we'll disclose.
But the market rates are right when we negotiate.
Okay.
And then on the 9- to 12-month construction before permitting when do you expect to receive first permits? And is that permitting on both ends of the system? I'll let Dan answer that question.
Permitting on the source end is complete.
Permitting on the destination end should we intend or hope to be complete by approximately January of 2012.
We've actually designed that facility to minimize any environmental issues which we again hope will streamline the permitting process.
Okay.
So then you'd be 9 months from that point be receiving the advantaged crude in Anacortes or -- at the earliest is that correct? That is correct.
We are very incentivized to get the project operational so we'll do everything we can to get it operating.
And how long before the July announcement were you guys working on a rail resolution? Just trying to get a better feel for the full cycle time it takes to add rail capacity out of Bakken to add to the 9- to 12-month construction time plus what looks like a 6-month permitting time.
Evan we looked at -- we've been working a lot of -- because of our position with our crude gathering and trucking operations up in the Bakken we've looked at a lot of different possibilities over time to do different things that originate there and to deal with Anacortes was one of those things.
We're just trying to find the best economic value.
So probably that specific thing we've been working for just 3 or 4 months to really look at the whole economics of doing it.
I think we mentioned in our press release that we had already started at the beginning of June delivering a couple thousand barrels a day of Bakken crude there just to work through the whole system.
Okay.
And then when we think about crude differentials we're looking at Clearbrook versus -- whatever.
I mean as -- I guess it goes towards the other question that I guess Chi had asked about in terms of the indicator margin for the West Coast.
I mean if we wanted to calc on -- if we want to put our own crack into that system is Oriente a better crude to think about versus ANS? I mean Oriente is one of the possible crudes that we run there.
Okay.
But -- and then Clearbrook pricing is that accurate for where you'll be purchasing Bakken to load? Or is that too high? Yes well our desire is to be able to gather use our assets.
Our intent there -- one of the advantages is to get use our assets both from a trucking and pipeline gathering to gather the crude at the least had.
It's just how much of that we can accomplish.
Well we'll see how that works out.
Okay.
Are the railcars MLP-able? Yes they are.
They are actually a lease currently.
So not MLP-able from a drop-down perspective.
I understand.
I do not -- I thought that you may be buying them.
And what is your commitment with BNSF? Is that just a one-year type of commitment? And clearly as the margin in the yield benefit indicate you'll continue to make runs? Yes I mean there is no real firm commitment with the BNSF as far as locking in on the tariff going overtime so we have that option to go for some period of time.
Our economics are based upon what we said earlier with the differential for Bakken to the Gulf Coast.
We feel we're advantaged to do that both transportation and yield.
Okay.
And are you going to secure crude on the crude side? Are you going to similarly like what you've done at Mandan for a producer? Are you going to enter into a supply agreement? Are you going to just take something at a wait spot? There's a commercial arrangement that we -- we're just not going to disclose how we secure our crude.
Okay.
I'll just shift one last question on your L.A.
refinery project that you mentioned earlier.
I mean does -- and that solution I presume would mitigate EPA emission spending that was at least as of 6 months ago was ultimately going to be required? Is that a fair assessment? I don't believe that it offsets any emission spending.
What it does do is decrease some nominal amount of CO2 emissions.
Your next question comes from the line of Jacques Rousseau with RBC.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to get a little more color on the Hawaii refinery if we could about the renegotiated contract and when you received a benefit.
Was it in the second quarter? And what type of magnitude? The actual ruling from the Hawaiian Public Utility Commission came in about the second week of May.
And that became effective at the time of the ruling it was not retroactive.
And so all along as we've gone through the negotiations our analysis had looked at a longer period of time at the pricing differentials between the 2 different type of reference pricing for fuel oil.
And over longer periods of time that yields about I think we said about a $25 million advantage to us.
As you're aware with the impact in Japan and what's happened to the fuel oil market that doesn't show up in the market as clearly now so it doesn't hurt us.
And from the pricing with fuel oil but it's -- the differential isn't as great as it used to be based upon historical analysis.
Although we think that that will come back.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And just lastly you discussed some of the commentary around distillate exports.
Is any of that Tesoro exporting distillate? On the West Coast we've consistently -- if you look at the West Coast exports we've consistently exported both gasoline and distillate off of the West Coast.
LLC</strong> And what type of level would the distillate at exports be? Dan you want to? Yes.
About 15 a day.
Your next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Just a quick follow-up on Jacque's last question there the 15 000 barrels a day.
I'm just trying to confirm.
Those barrels are going abroad and not to just other regional kind of domestic areas correct? That's correct.
On the diesel exports off the West Coast.
Secondly the Mid-Pacific guidance on costs seems to be fairly low at $2.90 a barrel.
It's been a while since you've achieved that.
Has something changed there? And is that a good kind of run rate going forward? I think we expect it to be a good run rate going forward but it's really subject to the maintenance plans that we have on a given quarter.
Quarter 1 and quarter 2 were significantly out of character for Hawaii I believe due to some extensive cogen repair.
During that timeframe when we have our cogen down we actually have to purchase electricity instead of convert -- essentially consume our own kerosene or jet fuel to produce electricity.
So what you saw was a high optics cost partially offset by a gross margin improvement.
Okay great.
And then the last one for me.
I just wanted to confirm retail was obviously very strong in the quarter.
Clearly we're seeing some crude prices come off here which typically benefits you given the lag.
Is it fair to say now that we're about halfway through the third quarter that those strong results should kind of spill into 3Q as well? We've got some marginal spilling to Q3 but I think the maturity of the lag effect between spot and street has been captured.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
If I could just ask a couple of questions about the market.
Currently you've also referenced that Tesoro Index may not be the perfect indicator that what we see on the screens isn't always -- but on starting on the West Coast margins looking very weak there I wondered if you could observe on what's kind of the problem of what should be a stronger time of year typically.
I'll only take a shot at that specific to the West Coast.
Refinery utilization is up significantly and we're seeing low crack if you look at ANS as your base crude.
We as we did in Q1 and Q2 expect to beat the ANS index.
The real phenomenon around the West Coast that we all have to be attentive to is the net import-export.
And net import-export has been favorable as the cracks drop off an absolute price on the West Coast.
We actually are opening up BARTs to export even to the Gulf Coast which is a little bit unusual.
So the market's relatively liquid and it's correcting itself.
Is there a global crude grade that we can use as the alternate to ANS to try to get a better idea of what your true margin is? I think that as Greg said earlier we're going to work on that in the third quarter and see if we can establish an index that better represents our true crack.
And the difficulty of that is finding a reference crude that you can actually find a future on oil that is traded publicly.
Right.
But I guess is that -- at Latin American and Asian crudes is that -- or how do we think about it? It compared besides the California heavy crudes.
There is South American crudes that come into the West Coast.
No Asian crudes to our system.
Great.
Got you Greg.
And then just briefly going through the other markets.
The Pacific Northwest still looking fairly healthy I guess.
Mid-Con obviously seems to be raging.
And Hawaii looks a bit rough again.
Is that more or less fair? Yes I think that's a good characterization.
Greg on a kind of corporate strategy point you paid down debt now towards the 30% target.
I believe it's a 30% target or a 31%.
Is it -- would we expect you to not pay down any debt beyond the 30% and then look for other options regarding cash? Paul we will probably -- we have to account -- we have the notes maturing in 2012 that will continue to -- whether we continue to pay those down or wait till maturity that's something we'll decide as we go forward from a cash standpoint.
But we will continue to pay down some debt.
It's just a matter of the timing on those 2012 notes.
And then --  and we're always continuing to evaluate all opportunities particularly like I mentioned earlier to someone else's questions on these projects that we've been identifying in the system that were really very attractive could either help lower our crude cost or like the L.A.
project that helps improve our yield in that.
But we're really focused on trying to find projects.
And as you can see these are very major projects.
They're around $50 million plus or minus a little bit but they're very high return projects that we can go in and get good sustainable earnings.
And that's really where we're focused on doing that with the cash that we have.
And so we have a few more opportunities that we're looking at and hopefully we'll get those to the maturity level where we can come and talk about those during the second half of the year.
Right.
So we need look at the maturity schedule of your debt to understand how much further you're going to go as opposed to thinking about 30% as an ultimate target? Yes I think that's fair to do that.
I mean we said below 30% so yes I think look at the maturity and that will give you a good idea of what we're doing.
The final one for me Greg.
The federal report on Anacortes was if I remember right you guided to be out by October last year.
Firstly any idea whatsoever why it's taking so long and when it might come out? And secondly could you just outline what the risks are surrounding that report to the extent that you can understand them? Yes.
That report you're referring to I think when you say federal is the report from the Chemical Safety Board.
And we really -- Paul we don't really have a good idea of when that report will be released.
There have been comments in the past in our expectation that we would've received it prior to now but that hasn't been the case so we continue to work with the Chemical Safety Board on their investigation.
And I really can't -- we'd like to see it just like everyone else but we don't have any really good idea when that is.
We don't think there'll be any surprises.
I think there was a public announcement not too long ago that confirmed what we said all along that the source of the the cause of the incident was the high temperature hydrogen attack.
And that's I think that's been pretty much validated with all of the different investigations.
But other than that -- we're kind of --  we just need to kind of wait and see what they say.
We don't feel that with everything we have done and not that there's any significant exposure but we will wait and see the findings of that report.
Great.
And you just happen to have an analyst meeting late this year right? Yes.
We will -- our analyst meeting will more than likely be around the same timeframe as last year sometime in the first part of December.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Gilman with Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of things.
Would I be correct in assuming that your decision to differ the $50 million in turnaround into '12 is based largely on margin outlook? The decision really has a little bit to do with margin outlook.
But to be honest with you it has more to do with just the overall timing of the of our overall turnaround plan.
So that $50 million expense was one that was going to curve pretty close to the end of the year anyway.
So it's just moving a little bit mainly just from a workload standpoint in that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can we get back -- and I'm sorry to keep beating up on this but the rail project.
I think you indicated in your answer to a prior question that the rail cars are going to be leased.
Is the cost of that included in what you indicated before as the tariff? The rail cars will be leased.
And the tariff that I talked about was just the tariff not the cost of the rail cars.
LLC</strong> Do you have a number for what that lease is likely to run per barrel or total dollar? From a -- we're not going to get into all the little details of the different costs going into there.
It's a very attractive way to supply but it's financially more attractive to lease the rail cars than it is to tie up our capital and it doesn't add significant cost to the tariff.
LLC</strong> Did I gauge your opening comments Greg correctly when you characterized the project as having a $28 yield benefit offset by $24 presumably including tariff and crude price yielding a net benefit of $4 per barrel did I get that right? Well what we talked about in the opening comments was one we talked about the yield advantage by producing less resid and more clean products and said that in the second quarter that would -- the differential between the clean products and resid was about $28 a barrel which gives us about approximately a $4 yield advantage.
And that's kind of what we see going forward.
LLC</strong> I'm sorry I'm confused between the $28 and the $4 Greg? The $28 was the difference between clean products and resid in the second quarter.
And because we're only yielding $16 1/4 of that the 16% of that -- excuse me that gives you to about a $4 advantage from a yield standpoint.
Is that clear? LLC</strong> Okay that's what the -- sure enough much better.
Maybe Dan could -- without getting into too much heavy technical stuff talk to me about how it is that the replacement of the vacuum unit actually results in yield improvement and reduction in coke production in favor of light product? I just can't follow it from a process standpoint.
Okay.
I'll try to talk at a high level which is useful because that's what I can do.
The -- think of it as a replacement of small pipe with the big pipe.
Vacuum -- the recovering -- the gasols out of resid requires a very very low pressure drop so the fatter you make the tower the more liquid you can recover from it out of the top spick-et [ph].
And that's what this tower does.
LLC</strong> Okay.
My understanding that you took in some Libyan crude during the quarter Greg.
I know you took one cargo did you take any more? And was that significantly discounted? Mark during the quarter we took in one cargo of Libyan crude and it was priced attractively at the time.
That's how we -- once we received approval that we could buy that Libyan crude that's the reason we purchased it.
But it was just a one spot cargo that we've been in sitting in Asia.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I noticed when looking at the overall system statistics in the quarter Greg that the crude slate overall was considerably lighter in this period than it had been in the past.
Yet the product yield slate with that lighter crude slate was somewhat heavier.
Can you help me understand how that happens? I think what you're seeing is an impact of the turnaround we had at Golden Eagle.
We lightened up our slate during that timeframe so that we'll continue to run production barrels.
And then we build some heavy intermediates.
LLC</strong> Okay Dan so that is a temporary thing attributable primarily to the turn? That's our expectation yes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just got a couple of quick things Greg please.
First of all on capital if you're pushing back the turnarounds a wee bit into next year and you've got some additional projects I guess but on more of the kind of quick-hit type your original CapEx budget I believe was somewhere in the region of 6 65 from next year.
Can you give us a preliminary guidance as to where you think that number ends up? And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
I mentioned earlier that we're actually right in the middle of our planning process to look at both our turnaround activity for 2012.
I mean you referenced both the CapEx and a turnaround number.
So we're looking at our turnaround activity for 2012 and then secondly are doing the same thing from a capital budget standpoint.
I mean we're pretty comfortable that the level of capital that we need to reinvest for both regulatory and compliance is a pretty stable amount so that changes to our capital will be entirely upon projects to enhance the overall performance of the assets.
So we'd already said we are running with these small capital projects that really are high-return short-payback periods.
We've talked in our analyst meeting last year that we were going to spend a little over $100 million this year and it's probably in ballpark the same thing next year.
The change will be as it now we're doing stuff in Mandan stuff in Anacortes and other things that we're looking at that aren't ready to be put in our budget yet.
So that's kind of the best guidance I can give you at this point in time.
Good stuff.
You did at the analyst day last year the turnaround number Greg was $2.75 which is obviously a huge step up from 2011.
Is that still a good starting point or has that changed also? That is the starting point.
I mean we'll be looking to optimize our turnaround schedule for '12 as we go through our planning.
But you're exactly right that was the number that we revealed last year.
And so we'll go through and look at how we manage our turnarounds for 2012.
Good stuff.
Is the AB 32 '11 sitting there or do you have any thoughts about how you might couch the possibility that there are more regulatory expenditures required? For '12 we don't see any significant expenditures for AB 32 because there's still so much work going on in the development of the regulations in that.
But hopefully as we progress through time we'll get a better idea of the impact from AB 32 standpoint.
But I don't see any significant impact in 2012.
I've just got 2 final ones that are fairly quick hopefully.
Hawaii my understanding was you were having a board meeting to -- and one of the things that was going to come up where I guess was the future of Hawaii.
Obviously a great quarter in Q2 but what's the decision there? Have you reached a conclusion as to what the outlook is? And then I've just got one final one please.
Hawaii is like everything else as we're doing evaluations around how we make assets better and what the opportunities in that are.
And we have not completed that work yet but we will shortly be completed with the work around Hawaii.
We're just not completely done with what we want to look at.
Maybe by the Analyst Day? Some time.
Okay.
Last one for me is I think a lot of people have tried to get an answer to this so I'm going to try it from a different angle.
The crude discount or the benefit on the West Coast I mean obviously you've never really ran a lot of ANS given the limitations in the supply there over the years.
But can you talk about how the evolution of your relative discount to your average crude slate has moved particularly in 2011 relative to ANS rather than telling us a different crude nevertheless all the rest of it? Talk maybe about what the discount has looked like and how that evolved and what that was like currently.
That would be great.
Yes I don't think we have that with us that we could sit down and go through that.
I mean in California we're basically running the California heavies and California lights and then some South American crudes.
But I don't...
The reason I'm asking is that Occidental is suggesting that they are getting fuel world market pricing on their crude in California.
And I'm just wondering where the discount is coming from and how the -- I know Oriente is a part of that but I'm trying to get an average number.
And currently could you give us an idea where that's trading relative to ANS? Is it $2 under? Is it $5 under? What should obviously it look like? Maybe I'll take a shot at -- I don't know if it's going to satisfy all your curiosity but the -- if you take a look at the Cold Lake type crudes which are a portion of our diet they're almost $32 under -- purchasing at $32 a crack relative to say ANS which is about $15.
But the slate changes frequently based upon what the market opportunities are and we try to nimbly capture those.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Tesoro Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carissa and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Carissa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our third quarter 2011 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement and the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking the time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
During the third quarter we again increased refinery utilization rates running total crude oil throughput of 609 000 barrels per day or 92% of total capacity the highest level in 3 years.
This allowed us to more fully capture strong crack spreads and advantage discounts on crude oil.
We also made good progress on our improvement initiatives to drive EBITDA growth with another quarter of gross margin improvements in excess of the market gains and the lowest manufacturing cost per barrel in 4 years.
The combined result is reflected in our very strong third quarter earnings of $2.39 per diluted share the most profitable quarter for Tesoro since the second quarter of 2007 when the index was $24 per barrel greater than $10 per barrel higher than in the third quarter of this year.
This strong financial performance allowed us to pay down an additional $84 million of debt taking us to 28% total debt to total capitalization.
Our goal is to continue to reduce leverage and we intend to repurchase the remaining 6.25% senior notes due in 2012.
Additionally we bought back 4.7 million Tesoro shares in an effort to offset the dilutive effect of our outstanding stock-based compensation awards.
During the quarter we also made progress on our refining and marketing integration strategy announcing our intention to add about 290 new retail stations to our existing portfolio an increase of nearly 25%.
These sites should add between 30 000 and 35 000 barrels per day of profitable and secure offtake for our refined products starting in 2012.
Using year-to-date gasoline production and retail volumes the addition of these stations increases our refining and marketing integration from about 35% to 47% a significant improvement to one of our strategic priorities.
Our long-term strategy relative to our cash position remains to one further strengthen our balance sheet with additional debt reduction; two invest in business improvements designed to yield high sustainable returns with short payback periods; three allocate capital through our value-driven growth strategy; and four to maintain a prudent cash balance to continue to take advantage of commercial opportunities to drive a high capture rate.
Turning to the quarter.
The average Tesoro Index gained over $3 per barrel relative to last year.
Feedstock cost advantage particularly in the Mid-Continent drove the benchmark index higher during the quarter.
West Coast benchmark crack spreads were down both sequentially and year-over-year driven by high refinery utilization rates and lackluster gasoline demand.
Incremental U.S.
exports of distillates and the continued demand growth in Asia and Latin America provided support to distillate crack spreads during the quarter.
Capture rates were very strong driven by significantly advantaged crude oil costs relative to benchmark grades of crude oil.
On the West Coast we continued to capture wider discounts for heavy crude oil both domestic and foreign grades particularly as compared to the West Coast benchmark ANS which remained expensive during the quarter.
In the Mid-Continent high levels of domestic inland crude oil inventories increased the discounts for these grades relative to benchmarks such as Light Louisiana Sweet.
In Hawaii we realized the benefit of falling crude oil prices during the quarter which benefits the pricing of our fuel oil contracts.
On a year-to-date basis Hawaii has made about $30 million on a fully burdened basis.
For the quarter our realized gross margin was $18.43 per barrel on a Tesoro Index that averaged $13.33 per barrel.
As I stated earlier throughput rates during the quarter averaged 609 000 barrels per day or 92% of total crude oil capacity.
This is up from 578 000 barrels per day or 87% for the second quarter this year.
This improvement marks another sequential increase in refinery utilization rates a key priority for the company.
Manufacturing costs in the third quarter averaged $4.57 per barrel down $0.66 sequentially when you exclude the property damage insurance proceeds in the second quarter.
We are making progress on lowering our operating cost per barrel and these results mark the lowest level in 4 years.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up 16% year-over-year reflecting the addition of some 300 Shell stations in the Mid-Continent earlier this year.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up nearly 1% relative to last year.
This is a significant improvement compared to what we saw in the second quarter when California retail street prices peaked in May.
Since then street prices have fallen more than $0.40 per gallon driving a rebound in volumes in the third quarter.
Retail marketing margins were down during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
As we mentioned in our earnings release our pretax corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $39 million before $3 million in corporate depreciation and $17 million in non-cash stock-based compensation credits primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
This is above the guidance we previously provided due primarily to an additional incentive-based compensation accrual made in the third quarter which brought our year-to-date employee bonus program better in line with the strong year-to-date financial results.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $86 million.
Turnaround spending was $17 million.
We currently anticipate our 2011 capital spending plan to be about $320 million including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
This includes spending on our recently announced refinery projects though most of the spending on these new projects will be in 2012 and beyond.
This capital spending guidance is lower than prior guidance by $60 million.
This is driven predominantly by our decision to move some West Coast planned maintenance activity from the fourth quarter of this year to 2012 which shifts associated to turnaround linked capital.
Additionally our efforts to drive more effective and efficient maintenance practices systemwide allowed us to gain effectiveness in our sustaining capital spend.
We'll talk more about how these actions impact our 2012 capital spending plans at our Analyst Day event in New York on December 5.
We still expect our turnaround spending for 2011 to be about $110 million.
As we look forward we remain reasonably optimistic about market conditions.
From an overall crack spread perspective this year has clearly exceeded our expectations.
Additionally seasonally typical U.S.
light product inventories combined with strong exports should continue to provide support to domestic refining margins.
Independent of the favorable market conditions we are capturing opportunities to drive significant value from our existing asset base.
As we've shared with you in the past we are focused on driving free cash flow strengthening the competitive position of the company and increasing shareholder value.
Our original goal for 2011 targeted over $225 million in year-over-year EBITDA growth.
When you look at what we've been able to accomplish so far this year by driving increased refinery runs and capturing more of the available margin we expect to exceed our goal.
In fact if you look at our reported results year-to-date through September EBITDA is up over $1.1 billion from the year-to-date results a year ago.
We fully recognize the market has improved.
Year-to-date the Tesoro Index has gained over $3.50 per barrel relative to last year.
Using 2010 throughput rates that would imply an incremental gross margin of about $415 million attributable to the market improvement.
Similarly if we take the year-over-year increase in throughput rates systemwide 111 000 barrels per day at the 2011 average Tesoro Index that would imply an incremental gross margin of about $365 million attributable to higher run rates.
The remaining $300 million plus incremental year-to-date EBITDA is primarily attributable to the execution of our 2011 improvement initiatives.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarter results and to provide guidance for the fourth quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night third quarter net income was $345 million or $2.39 per diluted share.
That compares to an unadjusted net income in the third quarter last year of $73 million or $0.51 per diluted share.
Special items last year included aftertax expenses of $17 million primarily associated with the Anacortes refinery outage.
Our cash G&amp;A expenses before non-cash credits related to stock-based compensation and accruals for incentive-based compensations are coming down as we expected.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of over $1.1 billion.
That's up over $500 million from the second quarter of this year.
We remained undrawn on the corporate revolver with over $1 billion of additional revolving credit capacity.
Tesoro Panama and Tesoro Logistics ended the quarter $20 million and $50 million borrowed on their separate revolving credit facilities which was down $35 million from the second quarter.
As Greg mentioned after repaying another $84 million of debt we ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of about 28% down an additional 3 percentage points from the second quarter.
The increase in cash for the quarter was $528 million and reflects EBITDA of $694 million plus working capital gains of $190 million less interest and tax payments of $82 million capital and turnaround spending of $103 million debt and revolver repayments of $119 million and $52 million in equity purchases primarily associated with the 4.7 million Tesoro shares we recently purchased that Greg mentioned.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter is seasonally a weak demand period with PADD V gasoline demand typically falling about 4% relative to the third quarter.
Reductions in supply however from planned and unplanned refinery maintenance have supported crack spreads quarter-to-date which were up sequentially and year-over-year.
In the Mid-Continent gasoline and diesel crack spreads remained strong up significantly relative to last year driven by a significant feedstock cost advantage.
So far in the fourth quarter the average discount of WTI to LLS remains above $20 per barrel and is slightly up relative to the third quarter.
I'll close with guidance for the fourth quarter for your modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day: 135 to 145 at the Pacific Northwest 70 to 80 in the Mid-Pacific 110 to 120 in the Mid-Continent and 240 to 250 in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the fourth quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $4.25 in the Pacific Northwest $2.90 in the Mid-Pacific $3.40 in the Mid-Continent and $6.50 in the California region.
Throughputs in California will be affected by planned turnaround activity at our Los Angeles refinery.
Similarly we expect throughputs to be down sequentially in the Pacific Northwest due to seasonally lower rates in Alaska and maintenance at our Anacortes refinery.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $90 million.
Additional fourth quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $35 million and interest expense before interest income of $36 million.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for his closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We're very pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date results.
This marks another quarter where we delivered on our plan to significantly improve the business guided by the strategic priorities as we laid out in December of last year.
We look forward to sharing more details around our 2011 achievements and our plans for 2012 at our upcoming Analyst and Investor Day event on December 5 at the New York Stock Exchange.
We hope you'll join us then.
With that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Edward Westlake of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just one of the drivers of getting unit OpEx down is obviously higher utilization.
You've given us guidance for 2011 but as you've done these sort of improvement plans trying to improve reliability I mean absent market conditions can you give us a sort of a flavor for how much further you think you can drive utilization up through reliability next year? Yes this is Dan.
Reliability based utilization for next year should continue to be strong although we're not really in a position to provide guidance on production yet for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on Hawaii there was obviously another beat there and obviously there's been shifts in the contract.
But is Q3 a good base in terms of the sort of capture rate? Or were there any funnies that you saw there? I think Ed the timing of the -- with the fallen prices and that made Hawaii a little bit unusual compared to what we expect and that's why we kind of reflected on a year-to-date basis that show the changes during the year.
But I think Hawaii third quarter would be a little bit unusual the price environment and that.
We have made some improvements -- I think last year we described that we were driving improvements in Hawaii and we are making some improvements in the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question is just on crude discounts.
Obviously we've seen ANS Kern differentials narrow since 3Q but you can still capture some international crudes coming into the market as well.
So could you talk a little bit about the market environment for the sort of cheaper heavier non-benchmark crudes in the region? Yes this is Dan.
Again the -- obviously you're aware that the ANS premium is coming off so our ability to improve relative to that benchmark will dwindle a little bit.
But you're also right that there are optimistic crudes foreign and other that we'll take advantage of.
And it probably wouldn't be appropriate to provide more guidance than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow of Macquarie Capital.
Scott what tranche of debt was repurchased in the third quarter? The 2012s primarily.
Was that the senior notes or the junior subs? The junior subs we retired in the second quarter and it was the senior unsecured 2012s.
Okay.
And then you're going to retire the balance of those next year you mentioned? Yes right.
Any timing on that? We’re looking at that but we have nothing to announce at this point.
Okay.
Can you give us some updates on how your projects are coming along demand and expansion the Bakken crudes Anacortes distillation unit down in Wilmington any updates on that end? Chi those -- actually those projects are all -- all of them are progressing extremely well as we go through the permitting process and the work that we have in place.
And at this time based upon the prior guidance everything is actually on schedule.
Okay.
And then the final one it looks like California has adopted its cap and trade rigs.
Any thoughts there long term on how you're going to manage that program and any concerns on what you see in the rigs? This is Dan.
You were aware of the recent announcements on the regulatory issues in California but I think it's too early for us to provide indication on the impacts so we're still in an evaluation mode.
Did it -- the finalization of the rig give you any increased concerns over what you thought before? Probably too early to say.
We're still evaluating what the impact will be.
Chi some of those are still -- they're moving -- they're still moving around.
And so as we formulate plans we'll be able to share them at a later date but it's just too early with what's happening with the regulations to come out definitively and state the impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit about how much ANS crude as a percent of total feedstock you're using on the West Coast generally.
And I know you wouldn't want to talk specific refineries and how much potential there is to continue to whittle that down if ANS stays at a premium to alternatives? Jeff ANS is a relatively small part of our crude oil supply on the West Coast.
And I think one of the ways that we intend to lessen the amount of ANS we run is the project to move Anacortes crude -- I mean Bakken crude excuse me to Anacortes.
And as we've said in the past that has a potential to lessen the amount of ANS and other form of crudes that we run at Anacortes.
Research Division</strong> With the Bakken rail project you talked about yield advantages and better transportation costs versus the Gulf Coast.
Are you working to lock in the economics of those -- of that project either through long-term purchases of crude or financial hedging to lock in the economics there? No we are able to -- with our crude purchasing strategy and our logistical system that we have in North Dakota and that we're able to use those to put us in a good position to secure the crude for Anacortes and we do not intend to hedge it.
Research Division</strong> Is there any concern that at some point in the future if pipeline projects come into play that that discount might narrow? Or you feel like it's going to be sustained for a longer period of time? I think over time I mean our view is over periods of time as the logistical systems are put in place to move the crude that the incremental cost to get Bakken crude to the Gulf Coast will be based on the cost of rail.
And we’ve said previously that the cost of rail to the Gulf Coast versus the cost of rail to Anacortes that we have an advantage from a cost standpoint.
So I mean yes we expect it to weaken out over time when those changes are put in place but we still have a good position.
And your next question comes of the line of Mark Gilman of The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things if I could please? Can you say anything about 2012 capital at this point? Regarding 2012 Mark last year at the Analyst Meeting when you were there we kind of laid out plans for 2012 capital and turnaround and it's too early.
I mean our Analyst Day is only a month away and we'll share details of what we plan to do.
But you can recall that it was higher than 2011 and we've come out and said that we've had several projects that we're going to do in 2012.
So we'll share more of those details but that kind of gives you an indication of what's in store.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg where do you stand on reinstating a dividend? I think in the past Mark we've talked about how we return -- look at ways to return cash to shareholders.
And as we look at where we stand today and our plans one we are very focused on continuing to delever.
Like we said we fully intend to pay out the remaining 2012 debt.
The second thing is that with the additional projects that we've been working on and that we've talked about those are going to require more cash that we'll fund a lot in 2012 maybe a little bit rolls into 2013 and we'll share more details on that.
We do intend to carry more cash on the balance sheet because with the opportunities we see in the marketplace to take advantage of supply for the refineries and that it gives us that flexibility to do that.
And so that's what our plans are today.
So we -- at this point in time we do not have any intention of instituting a dividend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just 2 more quick ones for me Greg if I could.
The Albertsons station acquisition with the stations in Southern California how much gasoline out of Wilmington are you moving on a spot basis currently? In Southern California we're fairly well integrated.
That is as you look at our retail system you can see that that is our strongest retail position in the overall Tesoro system.
So we're highly integrated in Southern California out of the refinery into our marketing system.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does that include the Albertsons -- the Thrifty stations excuse me or excluding them? No it does not include the Thrifty stations to date.
The Thrifty stations come online in 2012 and that will further extend the amount of -- our volume will exceed our production with the Thrifty stations in Southern California.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final one for me.
Greg can you say anything about the performance at Panama in the quarter plus minus and where it's reflected in the statements? Well in the statements [ph] like we’ve said in the past it flows into the California region and it's not a material impact Mark on the results.
It's the -- the market conditions were frayed and that have been pretty tough.
We've gained advantages that show up in our crude advantage that allow us to source South American crudes there but it's not -- from a Panama asset standpoint it's not a material impact.
And your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On my estimates I think once you get Bakken crude railed into Anacortes you run up to 30% 33% TI linked crudes.
I guess more nuanced once you get those Bakken crudes into Anacortes how -- how do those -- how does that impact the amount of runs of discounted WCS that you guys are picking up versus trans-mountain? And I presume that'll go up and help with the realizations but any sizing there the way we can think about that mix shift? I mean that the numbers you have on a percent of TI are pretty in the ballpark.
And I mean our favorite crude is Canadian crude into Anacortes which is constrained because of the pipeline so that we expect to stay basically how it is until there are changes in the pipeline capacity into the Pacific Northwest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that wouldn't go up until I guess 2016? You couldn't run more heavies -- you couldn't run more heavies versus lights on that line? On the line it's -- you mean...
Research Division</strong> I mean at the refiner.
I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> You didn't run more heavies versus lights at the refiner by blending it with the Bakken that you're going to rail in? No no we're not going to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay is the -- what's the symmetry in terms of the Bakken transloader? I think it's already built versus the Anacortes transloader.
And is there any ability to use the built transloader or rail to either trade around that physical offload position? For us the projects I mean there are 2 parts to it.
The loading facility in the state of North Dakota is with a contract we have with a third-party.
And you're right.
It is under construction and due to come online in the early part of 2012.
The unloading facility which we will be building at the refinery is the project that we talked about that is going through the permitting process and will come online in the latter part of 2012.
And so we are today moving just single manifest cars over to Anacortes but the volume is inconsequential.
It just allows us to get it there.
So we'll use the facility to do other things because we'll have the rail cars and the loading capability prior to being able to take crude oil to Anacortes next year.
Research Division</strong> So it’ll enable you to move crude elsewhere to… We could yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess lastly any update on Salt Lake with regard to black wax offtake increase from Newfield and how they talked about shifting capital and raising production to their -- are there any update on current talks with them to either offtake or potential expansion of Salt Lake? Evan we're doing work at the refinery to see what we can do to optimize the crude supply and that and we're not -- we haven't finished that work yet but we will shortly.
So it looks encouraging.
We're just -- we haven't completed the engineering work on that to comment on that so that we'd feel certain what we can do with the refinery.
Your next question comes of the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions I guess a follow-up on Evan first of all on Salt Lake.
Greg when you look at Salt Lake in terms of its location and the opportunity that might be there to follow similar path demand on can you kind of lay out how you see Salt Lake strategically as maybe you’ve been able to take advantage of more of the ramp-up in light crude and I've got a couple of follow-ups if that's okay.
Doug I think the best thing to do around Salt Lake is just give us time to finish our work that we're doing on the engineering and that and we can lay out plans fairly shortly on we want to do with Salt Lake and then be just more open about what we think we can do because it's -- there are things that we’re working.
We're just not -- they're not complete yet.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
We hear about that in December possibly? Yes possibly so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Moving to Hawaii obviously a phenomenal quarter there.
Can you help us quantify the impact of the crude benefit if you like the delta quarter-end to quarter-end in terms of the contribution match [ph] we made.
In other words what would the underlying earnings have been for the facility outside of the crude dynamics? In Hawaii we've -- one of the things that I stated was that we kind of looked to the variability because of the lag effect on the fuel oil contracts and pricing of how we price long-haul crudes because we take long-haul crudes into Hawaii.
It moves around a lot because of timing of how crudes are priced and that's -- Hawaii's third quarter definitely was stronger than one would normally expect.
There's no question about that.
And that's why we kind of put it into perspective and look back over the 9 months of this year and said that when we look at Hawaii and we burdened it with our overheads and that like we do everything else it stands at about $30 million of profit.
It's -- that's kind of where it stands right now.
Research Division</strong> So $30 million would be the sorry the underlying? Yes underlying fully burdened for January through September because it bounced around it's bounced around each of the quarters.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm going to take it offline and go into a bit more detail with Louie.
Just 2 final quick ones Scott on the debt paydown just help us rather than do the arithmetic ourselves what's left of the 2012 seniors to be paid down next year? $239 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the higher CapEx...
I'm sorry I apologize $299 million.
Research Division</strong> Right.
With higher CapEx points next year you still reckon you can get that done? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the final one for me is just a refresher please on what exactly your West Coast crude slate looks like currently? And I'll leave it at that.
This is Dan.
We run obviously lot of domestic California the rest of it is largely foreign-oriented and that’s dependent upon what the relative pricing of those crudes are.
Research Division</strong> The domestic California if you look at the realizations from the likes of Occidental is that a good gauge because it seems to have been tracking world prices more than TI I guess to some extent? For the percentage of the barrels that we run that's correct.
Research Division</strong> What is that percentage? I don't know that we provided that guidance previously.
And your next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler of CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Greg is there a number that you've given in terms of the level of retail integration that you'd like to see for the company? I'm sorry can you ask the question again Ann? I didn't pick -- oh retail? Research Division</strong> Oh sure.
Retail yes retail integration.
We have -- that's work we've just completed.
We definitely -- it's something we do on a regional basis because of the nature of the markets we're in and we look at it each on a regional basis.
But it's probably in excess of 2/3 60-some percent is where we'd like to get to that gives us some flexibility and positions the assets because of the different markets.
So we have a ways to go from where we are today.
Research Division</strong> Great and would you say that -- I know that when you -- when they made the L.A.
acquisition there were a couple of independent station packages that were a part of that transaction or simultaneous to that transaction.
To go from 47% to the 66% is the bulk of that within California or outside of California? It's really spread around everywhere.
The big impact in California is next year when we bring Thrifty online from integration and then we go into all of the different regions so the bulk of it would be outside after Thrifty.
Your next question comes from the line of Jacques Rousseau of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great quarter.
Just wanted to and most of my questions have been answered but just a few things.
When you look at your operating cost improvement which has been pretty significant how much of that do you attribute to external factors lower power costs et cetera or internal factors of optimization? This is Dan.
The external factors like fuel gas price et cetera have essentially been canceled out by the incremental volume run so the vast majority of it we're seeing on improvement there is actually improvement in operating efficiency and then fixed cost spread across additional barrels because of increased utilization.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one more if I could.
In prior slide decks that you've provided there's been some commentary about hedging gains in the quarter.
Were there any in 3Q? Yes Jacques.
This is Scott.
You'll see in our 10-Q when we filed it that we had $112 million of hedging gains in the quarter.
And again those really reflect derivative activities that we put in place to manage inventory builds or draws.
There's physical offsets that balance those gains.
Most of those gains were realized in the quarter as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give a breakout of regions for that? No we don't provide that.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Greg really from the moment you took over and I guess for about at least 1 year after that you were always very clear in stating that you didn't expect any help from the market I think was the approximate wording you used.
Right.
Research Division</strong> If I heard you right and you kind of slipped it in in your commentary today you were saying words to the effect that you expect the current strength in the market to be sustainable.
Could you expound on that a little bit more? Yes I mean one let me comment we -- all of our plans were to really drive improvement in the business without any help from the market.
And like I said the market to be honest was stronger in 2011 than we thought it would be when we sat back in 2010 and we've actually used that -- the advantage of that to really strengthen our financial position so that's been the big benefit there.
As we look out from a market standpoint we think some of the fundamental drivers in the market going forward are relatively supportive to the margin environment data.
We think that the export activity out of the United States is a fundamental driver.
I think you have made comments to that yourself and we see that continuing to happen.
So bottom line is we think that there is still pretty good support for margins on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> So is there more to it than just the export story? And obviously I mean we're also highlighting the availability of domestic...
Absolutely.
The availability of domestic crude is another factor and depending on some of the recent announcements on some potential refinery closures whatever happens there that could lend some additional support if that materializes.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I guess you kind of started by saying this but my follow-up was going to be the extent to which your strategy has changed or been altered as a function of that shift in view and of the extra financial firepower that you've sort of benefited from over the past 1.5 years.
I mean our strategy remains absolutely solid and focused on what we're trying to do and we've been able to accelerate particularly improving our balance sheet and that because of market conditions.
That's been the biggest thing.
And the second thing that's really helped us on our further development as we've got into the assets more.
One of the really positive things is the announcements of the projects like the Mandan expansion the work in Los Angeles the ability to move the Bakken crude over to Anacortes the work that we're doing in Salt Lake that we can't share with you.
But we have -- what's encouraging we have a lot of those other types of work going on that weren't part of the plans that we shared with everyone last year that we'll talk more about when we meet in December.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then a slightly obscure follow-up.
I thought the kind of conventional wisdom was when you have retail stations it was better to own them? I noticed that you signed quite a big lease here.
Is there anything to say about that? From our standpoint I mean as a company we're very driven trying to get a high return on capital employed.
And because of the nature of the market and we look at the integration on a regional basis partly because of the Mandan Salt Lake the inland nature of our -- to some of those refineries and that so we look at integration there and the opportunities to drive the integration that we're trying to achieve is different in different regions.
And our preference would be to have wholesale agreements where we don't tie up a lot of capital but we -- we're taking a portfolio approach to give us the diversification in the marketplace to reach out into the customers either through some retail stations that we acquire the leasing of the stations was one of the options and growing our wholesale business like we did with Shell is another option.
So it's a diversified approach but at the end of the day we're trying not to tie up a lot of capital in it.
Research Division</strong> Yes what are the main differences in the integration potential between I don't know Mid-Continent West Coast or whatever you're thinking of? Well the West Coast has been easier because of the California market.
I mean there's no question we’re -- we look at California from a total integration standpoint between the 2 refineries and we have a far stronger position there.
The opportunities in the other areas take a little bit more time and the growth will be -- well it will just take a little bit more time for that to materialize but they're all kind of different.
The Shell deal was an excellent opportunity for the company because as we've talked numerous times it gave us 13 000 to 15 000 barrels a day plus a platform to grow into especially around the Salt Lake and Mandan refineries.
So we just need to look at them in each of the areas.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
On the Anacortes rail project what are the major permits that you guys need to start construction of that facility? Yes Faisel this is Dan.
There are actually just a lot of permits necessary and I don't think I can give it justice in a short comment.
But the U.S.
Corps of Engineers is probably the critical path permit for us.
And right now we're still optimistic that we’ll have that in time to secure construction for Q4 completion of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And just right now how much light -- Western Canadian light are you bringing into Anacortes right now? We don't provide that level of guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And can you discuss a little bit on the West Coast how you guys shifted production to a higher sort of product yield geared towards diesel? It looks like you guys increased diesel production by at least 14 000 barrels a day.
Can you just talk a little bit about what happened there year-over-year in the third quarter? Yes we have the capability to swing in the -- or remain 2% to 10% volume between gasoline and diesel and the economics were there off and on for us to do that in Q3 so we took advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then I was wondering if you could comment a little bit about last night there was a transaction for a refinery I guess in the Mid-Continent.
Are you -- would you guys look at assets like that? Or what's your kind of focus right now in terms of -- where do you put sort of acquisitions or sort of assets like this when they come up for sale in your kind of priority? We've -- I think in the past what we’ve said is that we really did a lot of strategic work last year and we looked in our market area and understand assets that would fit in well with the company if they were available.
And we would -- so we understand what we would like to be able to do and if things were to become available we would definitely look at those opportunities.
There hasn't been anything on the market available that would be a fit for the company based upon the quality of the asset and the location that would fit into our system.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Gilman of The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg any update on the Anacortes litigation you can share with us? Mark I think that everything is kind of moving forward.
There's nothing of any significance that's changed on either the work that we're doing with the outside authorities or the litigation that's going on.
It's kind of just going through the due process really.
There's no significant changes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any significant dates we should pay attention to? We don't have any -- we do not have any concrete dates on any of that stuff.
It is work in process.
It has taken a long time and there aren't any concrete dates Mark.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was waiting for someone to ask you about the acquisition and thanks Faisel for that.
But the multiples would have been accretive to Tesoro if you look at the I don't know if you've seen the math.
So I take it from your comments Greg that it's more around strategic fit with your interest with your existing assets rather than just say sort of a Mid-Con focus? That's absolutely correct.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Greg Goff for closing remarks.
We appreciate all the questions and we look forward to seeing everyone if you can make it to our Analyst Day meeting at the beginning of December.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shanelle and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Shanelle.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations from non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night our fourth quarter net loss was $124 million or $0.89 per diluted share.
That compares to an adjusted net loss in the fourth quarter last year of $19 million or $0.13 per diluted share.
Special items last year included after-tax income of $0.27 per diluted share resulting from business interruption and property damage insurance proceeds net of costs related to repair work at the Anacortes refinery and noncash after-tax expenses of $0.12 per diluted share related to potential legal claims of an Alaskan pipeline settlement and the write-off of goodwill at the Hawaii refinery.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $36 million before $2 million in corporate depreciation and $21 million in noncash stock-based compensation accruals primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
Fourth quarter results were $0.09 below the low end of our guidance range because of the combined differences in volume yield and pricing assumptions relative to actual results for the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were $129 million and turnaround spending was $36 million.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $900 million down from $1.1 billion at the end of the third quarter.
The decrease in cash of more than $200 million reflects negative EBITDA of $56 million capital and turnaround spending of $165 million and cash interest and taxes of $107 million.
Working capital and financing activities which included borrowings under the Tesoro Panama revolver added $93 million.
We remain undrawn on the corporate revolver with over $800 million of revolving credit capacity at the end of this year.
Turning to the first quarter this is typically a weak gasoline demand period both nationally and in PADD V with demand typically falling 1% to 3% from the already weak fourth quarter.
From a supply and demand perspective the West Coast is relatively in balance providing support to cracks which are up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Regarding crude oil price differentials the relative discount of California heavy crude oil has returned to a more normal level having averaged a $7 per barrel discount to Brent so far this year.
The WTI Brent crude -- the WTI to Brent crude oil spread has also stabilized in a $10 per barrel range and was as wide as $14 yesterday.
I'll close with guidance for first quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 145 to 155 in the Pacific Northwest 55 to 75 in the Mid-Pacific 110 to 120 in the Mid-Continent and 210 000 to 220 000 barrels per day in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the first quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $4.10 in the Pacific Northwest $3.65 in the Mid-Pacific $3.50 in the Mid-Continent and $7 per barrel in the California region.
Throughputs in California will be affected by a plant turnaround activity at our Martinez refinery.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $93 million.
Additional first quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expenses excluding depreciation of $36 million and interest expense before interest income of $36 million.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ed Westlake Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg lots of strategic progress last year as you've announced the Hawaii potential sale.
Can you just discuss on the timings and the levels of interest in that process? Research Division</strong> And then just picking up on the comment you made at the Analyst Day about your SWOT teams are going around refineries and finding ways to improve operations.
You had 2 more refineries I think to cycle-through in the first quarter.
Might also be a bit early but any comments on the opportunities you found and how -- like what your thinking is if some of those say larger capital projects defer to  those into the capital spending if you have $670 million this year and then $545 million next? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then a final quick one.
Demand in California you said same-store sales flat in Q4.
Any color on how January is shaping up? Yes sure.
Same-store sales January year-to-date are somewhere between flat to down 1% which is a bit better than what PADD V looks like and obviously quite a bit better than U.S.
average.
Research Division</strong> Which seems bizarre in the sense of that the U.S.
average is -- seems very low.
Are you seeing any funnies in you region in the data or in the DOE? Hard to tell.
Obviously the DOE data is quite concerning but we don't have any unique insight there.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow of Macquarie Capital.
Yes sure.
All great projects all on schedule no new news on project costs that are of concern.
Permits are fully received from Mandan and we're in construction window still expect completion to occur by the end of second quarter so that project is good to go.
L.A.
vac tower is also in progress and no material cost increase there and the evident [ph] generation still looks solid.
In fact the tower itself has been shipped from Europe and is in route to L.A.
And the Anacortes we received the permits necessary to begin construction on the offloading facility for rail so that's great news.
And work is commencing so expect that to be operational fourth quarter.
Yes I'll give it at a high level and then let Louie give you the details if you want it at a more deep -- deeper level.
So Brent-TI for the first 3 quarters was $195 million positive.
Fourth quarter unfortunately clawed back $125 million.
But the good news is the full year was $70 million positive.
And then on the Bakken and Canadian light sweet those differentials worked the opposite direction relative to the Index WTI.
Bakken was about a $7 differential worse than WTI having a negative impact of $110 million in the first 9 months.
Similarly Canadian light sweet WTI when applied across the 1/3 volume that's indexed to WTI and Anacortes was roughly $85 million.
And if you want it on a quarter-by-quarter basis Louie will have that detail so give him a call.
Yes if you look at publicly available posted prices clear books actually come back to more normal ranges so those relationships are kind of inversely proportionate to what occurs on the Brent-TI.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> My question regarded -- regards to the potential for an improvement in the credit rating and moving towards investment grade.
You've highlighted the reduction in debt to total cap and plans to retire the $300 million 6 1/4% note this year.
It doesn't appear you've got the next -- or the next senior note is not due until 2015 but what are your thoughts on moving towards an investment-grade credit rating? And how does that compare in priority versus a dividend and other factors you're considering? We visit with the rating agencies frequently and their message has been the same to us over the last several years which is more diversity of earnings more complex refining capacity things that in our mind don't necessarily drive value but in their mind mitigate risks and spread it across the system more fully.
When we finish paying off to 2012 I don't think that we're going to go after additional debt for the sake of investment-grade rating.
We're using that cash to pay this debt off because it matures this year and it puts us in a stronger position financially.
But we're not chasing an investment-grade rating by paying off debt.
Research Division</strong> On a second topic as Chi mentioned and you guys spoke about previously the Bakken spreads have widened a bit.
There's been a fair amount of rail capacity rail loading capacity that's come into the Bakken and yet the differentials are pretty wide.
Could you talk about the rail industry in the Bakken and the new capacity loading capacity that's come on versus the availability of rail cars and the availability of markets to unload the capacity into and how that balance is playing out? It would appear from the wider discounts for Bakken that even though new capacity is being added it's not really relieving the pressure on netbacks in the Bakken.
Yes I'd say -- this is Dan.
Let me take a shot at that.
I think you're right.
If you take a look at the publicly available information the rail loading capacity likely is going to be more than sufficient to handle the increased production of Bakken.
I think the differentials that we're seeing on Bakken based on our economics for our projects were based upon the cost of rail.
I think that the control valve on the rail is rail cars themselves which are in quite short of supply.
Beyond that I don't know that we have a lot of unique market intelligence.
The good news on offloading piece which is I think one part of your question is we've got a solution to that and its Anacortes.
We also believe that there's some commercially available capacity in the Gulf coast that we can utilize to complement our loading capabilities in Rangeland.
Thanks.
Your next question comes of the line of Paul Cheng of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Greg a number of question.
On the long-haul crude hedges is -- I presume that most of those foreign crude is a price base off Brent so is there a thinking in the company that whether you should shift from WTI into Brent? Or that you are going to stick with WTI? Research Division</strong> Is there any particular reason? I mean is that always there going to be somewhat of a mismatch? Research Division</strong> Let me ask it in another way that if your foreign crude are  mostly priced off Brent or mostly priced off WTI? Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the $125 million loss you mentioned that in the fourth quarter.
Do you have a breakdown by region? Actually we don't provide the regional information because of commercial sensitivity but if you take a look at our capture rates I think you'll see the regions that were impacted most significantly.
Research Division</strong> So I'd presume that is California.
But any rough percentage at least? I'll tell you what why don't we let Louie give you that information in the call afterwards.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Greg I heard you about -- from the dividend.
I think in the past fundamentally the company believed as we find a dividend is not the most important and it's not going to really have any meaningful benefit in terms of your shareholder base.
Recently I think Barron had an interesting article talking about the dividend and I think a lot of the investors that may echo saying that they do want to have a higher dividend on a sustainable basis and especially that you start to get into the 3% to 4% yield.
I want to see that is that still fundamentally is the management view that dividend for this particular industry is not the most desirable thing or the most important thing there to pursue? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more quick questions.
First in Hawaii I don't know if you said just too premature and you may not want to answer that but in the event -- if we cannot find a reasonable offer what may be the next steps in terms of that facility? Research Division</strong> When are you going to open the data room? Research Division</strong> The final question.
On the rail projects to ship from Bakken into Anacortes is there a breakeven requirement in terms of the ANS Bakken defense that we should be aware on that project? Or I presume that there's one but I mean can you share with us what that -- what spread there is the minimum that you need in order for the project to be economic? Research Division</strong> Sure but at what point that they won't be attractive? That's my question.
You said that when ANS is selling at a discount to Bakken by $2 or -- I mean just trying to get some understanding that how big is the cushion that we have? Your next question comes from Sam Margolin of Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question's related to the long-haul WTI Index barrels.
With the capital program and these are important projects that require commitment and the CapEx acceleration is pretty steep is there any initiative to move away from these riskier longer-haul crudes and kind of stick to more visible indices even if it's at the risk of losing some margin potential in any given quarter? Just because with Brent-WTI up here at $15 again this could theoretically repeat itself if there was ever a compression of that? LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you disclose which exporters still use a WTI benchmark for the long-haul barrels? Is it mainly in the Middle East or Pacific Rim or where do these like WTI plus 20 barrels come from? LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one just on Tesoro Logistics you talked about the EBITDA ramp up.
I'm sorry if I missed this but with the drop-downs you've you talked about are the marine terminal in California and the Bakken rail link.
Is there anything else that you're in a position to discuss today? And your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Greg apologies for jumping by to Hawaii for a second but can you just clarify -- I know you don't want to go down the road of options at this point but do you see any government restrictions if you did decide that you maybe wanted to close that facility? And related can you give us an idea that net of tables what is the current inventory value sitting in that facility? And I've got a couple of quick follow-ups please.
Research Division</strong> Is that crude and products or how is that split down? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the crude but generally it has a table associated with it.
Is that fair? Doug typically working capital for that facility runs on a net basis right about $100 million.
Inventory less payables right about $100 million.
Research Division</strong> So if we assume just for easy numbers for me Scott.
As I said I'm simple guy.
4.5 million $100 $450 million have $100 million of working capital would it be fair to say that net inventory value should you liquidate it before tax this would be somewhere in the $350 million range? No what I'm saying is our net working capital is about $100 million and...
Research Division</strong> Oh right so that's not just the payable ones there.
Okay great.
All right.
That's all in.
Research Division</strong> Great stuff.
Any government issues? Have you had discussions with the local government Greg? Research Division</strong> Terrific.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks Greg that this is a heavy turnaround year.
I know you gave us some indications of that previously but I guess your point is done in the first quarter.
Can you give us an idea of when you say heavy what are we talking about in terms of the ratable downtime by facilities that goes through the year? Just name the big ticket items.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So Golden Eagle is done.
Wilmington's clear of any turnaround this year.
Is that right? Research Division</strong> Okay great stuff.
We'll deal with that as it comes.
And the final one is really related to your retail strategy.
Obviously you've announced some additional acquisitions this morning.
How did you see the running room to continue to basically add and expand? Is there kind of a level of integration that you're targeting the ultimately you would want to move towards and I'll leave it at that.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you give me a better picture of crude pricing in the West Coast? I know ANS is currently the premium to LLS and curious here of your views on the driver there.
And are you seeing that type of strength across all crude alternatives? Or is ANS as it has been sometimes in the past a bit more of an anomaly? Sure.
This is Dan.
I'll take a shot at that.
ANS is a bit out of the market.
It looks like to us commanding a premium this is -- of course the problem with ANS is it's just not that liquid.
But nevertheless it represents a large percentage of the crude that's run on the West Coast.
So that I think harkening back to one of the questions we had earlier in the call that's one of the reasons why we've got a strong foreign crude sourcing strategy for the West Coast.
California domestic crudes have actually come back in line with more typical spreads now in the $7 discount to Brent.
So I think domestically the crudes are aligned up correctly and the foreign crudes are still profitable and attractive.
Research Division</strong> It is like a related question I guess on your Anacortes rail project I mean clearly great economic signals here.
There's the West Coast and we're pretty bullish on these differentials.
On a go forward basis I mean what is the limiting factor on 30 000 barrels a day facility if you wanted to upsize it? Are there any elements of that chain that are oversized? And -- or is there any as well a higher range? If once up and running you were able to kind of move more efficiently through that loading transloading unloading rail facility? Sure.
The physical limitations are -- can handle significantly greater than 30 000 barrels a day.
I don't think we will know for sure what those limitations are until we actually go into operation.
But the loading and offloading facilities are sized to do quite a bit more.
We will need to address the permit issues as we start to go greater than 30 000 barrels a day should we choose to do so.
Research Division</strong> And what -- and then what's -- is that along to a timeline through the permitting track? What's that start to finish? When we began the permitting process for the offloading facility itself that took us close to 5 to 6 months I believe.
Don't hold me to that but it was in that order of magnitude so it really depends upon the emission impacts and public sentiment and stakeholder sentiment should we choose to expand that facility.
Just as a reminder the loading facility has capability to go above 30 000 barrels a day as is 40 000 barrels a day most certainly and greater should we choose to do it so the incremental volume does not have to go through Anacortes.
It can go into the commercial market and we intend to do so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And we try a question on Hawaii and coming on maybe at the other side of Doug's question I mean are there any restrictions that you're aware of kind of antitrust issues or regulators voiced any disapproval with potentially Chevron as the buyer of that asset given that they're the operate operator of the only 1 of 2 assets refining assets in Hawaii? Or is there a broader definition of kind of what that market is because it can go maybe import or something? Research Division</strong> Okay.
That demand is fair.
On -- I guess lastly on Mandan and then maybe you could pretend [ph] to refresh me but -- is there a turnaround associated with your -- with 2Q tie-in? And just could you quantify that for me with regard to the expansion? Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I think these numbers have changed particularly but I wondered if you could just remind us of your CapEx plans for 2012 and 2013? What I'm really trying to get at just as a reminder of how much is maintenance capital how much is expansion capital.
And within that you previously had a number that was a discretionary amount that could be reduced I think relatively quickly.
So what I'm really driving at is if this kind of result was to continue how -- the sensitivities if you want on your CapEx for those 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And so -- and then just remind me of the small projects out of the $375 million this year.
And I'm sure this is very similar just to reiterate to the numbers that you gave in the December I assume they are.
Research Division</strong> And is the team the same Greg? And then could you just talk a little bit Greg and I'll leave it at that point about the discretion on the small -- I mean I think you could almost shut it down to 0 if you needed to.
Isn't that correct? Research Division</strong> Great.
So I took it to mean what you already outlined but just an update.
Gasoline demand is -- I mean we've kind of danced around this a little bit this morning.
The gasoline demand has extremely weak margins very very good for this time of the year.
What's your perspective on what's driving that? Research Division</strong> What you're saying is your sales are not matching what the DOE is saying basically? Your next question comes from a follow-up from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
A number of balance sheet item.
Scott do you have -- what is your market value of inventory in excess of both your long-term debt component of the total debt and that how much of debt also that is -- belong to the Tesoro Logistics? And then finally Greg can you give us an update at whether the Salt Lake construction has stopped and that where we are over there? Yes Paul the market value of our -- the excess market value of our book of inventories is $1.7 billion.
Current portions of our -- the current maturities on our debt is $400 million and that does not include anything for TLLP.
We've got $50 million drawn on the TLLP revolver but that revolver expires beyond one year so there's no current maturities from that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But Scott so that means that your long-term debt is $1.3 billion right? Of the $1.3 billion is there any -- how much of them maybe is in the TLLP? If you can give me the working capital.
Okay there's -- to answer your question of debt related to TLLP and working capital excluding cash at the end of the quarter was $420 million.
No not at TLP.
I'm just...
I'm sorry Paul are you asking about working capital for TLLP? Research Division</strong> I'm talking about working capital for the Tesoro Corporation.
And Dan if there's any of them related to TLLP or so? Right yes working capital excluding cash for the corporation is $420 million and there's no working capital associated with TLLP.
Okay Paul yes Salt Lake City is still in the permitting process.
As you recall in Analyst Day we rolled that project out or shortly before it when we rolled it out.
We announced some really great news with that project and that is that we had an agreement with Newfield.
That agreement with Newfield as our crude supplier brings in a different crude mix than we originally thought we were going to have when we began the project work early in last year.
Which in the end turned out to be quite good news because it made the project larger and generate increased the EBITDA stream.
Long story short we're still in the engineering on the project and permitting phase.
Research Division</strong> When then you may start the actual construction? Any expectation? I think probably it will be best to discuss when we targeted the phases of the operations to be complete.
And our expectation on that is mid-2013 and then mid- to late 2014 for Phase 1 and Phase 2.
Your next question comes from a follow-up from Chi Chow of Macquarie Capital.
Yes sure.
This is Dan.
I'll take a shot at that.
That ruling clearly challenged the constitutionality of the low-carbon fuel standard and to the extent that it's upheld then we certainly get a period of time where there is going to be relief on the low-carbon fuel standard.
If I were to summarize where we are in California regarding AB 32 and the low-carbon fuel standard it would be that it has been and it will continue to be a bit of an unknown commodity.
It doesn't materially impact the direction that we're taking in 2012.
The impacts of the low-carbon fuel standard both on a stationary source perspective and on carbon intensity in fuels was relatively benign for 2012 and 2013.
We certainly believe that it has the potential to delay the implementation and potentially significantly but we honestly don't know where the court battle is going to land.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Q&amp;A session.
That concludes the presentation as well.
Enjoy the remainder of your day and have a great day.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaquanna and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Shaquanna.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2012 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the detail of the results in a moment.
Despite major turnaround activity at our Martinez California refinery during the quarter we delivered a solid operating performance and strong first quarter earnings of $0.39 per diluted share.
In addition to this solid operating performance we made significant progress on several strategic fronts during the quarter.
We are nearing completion of our North Dakota refinery expansion.
We are ahead of schedule with our project to rail Bakken crude oil to our Anacortes refinery and we took delivery of our new vacuum distillation unit at our Los Angeles refinery.
These high-return capital projects reduced our feedstock costs and improved our yields enhanced the competitive position of our assets and drive significant earnings and cash flow growth.
During the quarter we increased our refining and marketing integration with the purchase of 49 retail stations from SUPERVALU and recently began taking possession of retail stations from Thrifty Oil Company.
These acquisitions had ratable and profitable supply outlets allowing us to sustain higher refinery utilization.
And we completed the first IP post-IPO drop down to Tesoro Logistics on April 2 generating $75 million of incremental value and demonstrating our commitment to capturing the full value of our Tesoro Logistics assets.
As the market value of Tesoro Logistics continues to grow that growth accrues to Tesoro to our 52% equity ownership.
Now turning to the results for the quarter.
Lackluster gasoline demand and above average distillate inventories early in the quarter pressured crack spreads plus seasonally strong domestic crude oil production and continued logistics constraint provided additional feedstock cost advantage.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the first quarter averaged just over $10 per barrel down slightly from a year ago while the company's realized gross margin was $12.15 per barrel or 120% of the Tesoro Index.
Refinery throughput rates during the quarter averaged 529 000 barrels per day or 80% utilization.
The year-over-year decline in throughput and lower gross margin capture is attributable to the major turnaround activity at our California operations.
While the majority of this impact was included in our plan the repair scope of the Martinez turnaround was expanded mid-quarter.
The work was completed in March and today the refinery is running well.
For the second quarter we expect throughput rates to return to about 580 000 barrels per day or 87% utilization.
Despite the lower throughput manufacturing cost in the first quarter averaged $4.97 per barrel down slightly quarter-over-quarter mostly on lower energy cost and continued control of our fixed operating cost.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up 7% year-over-year reflecting the new Albertson's Express Fuel stations this quarter and the addition of the Shell wholesale supply contracts mid-quarter last year.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were down about 1% relative to last year.
This was likely driven by higher year-over-year street prices in California which peaked in early March.
Retail marketing margins were down during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is typical in a rising price environment where street prices tend to lag rapid increases in wholesale spot prices.
Retail margin so far in the second quarter have improved from the first quarter on lower crude oil prices.
Capital spending for the first quarter was $139 million including $37 million for the SUPERVALU acquisition.
Turnaround spending was $126 million.
We continue to plan for 2012 capital spending of $670 million including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
We also continue to expect about $300 million in turnaround spending for 2012.
As we shared with you in December 2012 is a heavy turnaround year for us.
With the completion of the work at our Martinez refinery we are nearly halfway through our planned capital spending for the year.
As we look forward we remain reasonably optimistic about U.S.
refining marketing conditions.
Seasonally tighter U.S.
like product inventories combined with strong exports should continue to provide support to domestic refining margins.
Independent of the favorable market conditions we are driving significant value from our existing asset base.
As we shared with you in the past we are focused on driving operational efficiency and effectiveness with a relentless focus on becoming a superior operator.
We are reinvesting our free cash flow into high-return capital projects that strengthen the competitive position of our company.
And we expect to further strengthen our balance sheet allowing us to execute future value-driven growth opportunities.
Our goal for our 2012 target is between $150 million and $200 million in year-over-year EBITDA growth and we remain on track to deliver this objective.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide the guidance for the second quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night first quarter net income was $56 million or $0.39 per diluted share.
That compares to net income in the first quarter last year of $107 million or $0.74 per diluted share.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $710 million.
We remain undrawn on the corporate revolver with nearly $820 million of additional revolving credit capacity.
Tesoro Panama and Tesoro Logistics ended the quarter $90 million and $50 million borrowed on their separate revolving credit facilities.
Concurrent with the April 1 drop down of the Martinez crude oil terminal Tesoro Logistics drew $68 million on the revolving credit facility taking total borrowings to nearly $120 million today.
Partnership also exercised its option to double the size of its revolving credit facility to $300 million to facilitate continued growth.
We ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of 29% down a percentage point from year-end 2011.
The use of cash for the quarter was $190 million and reflects EBITDA of $231 million less capital and turnaround spending of $228 million funding for the SUPERVALU acquisition of $37 million working capital and other uses of $129 million and repayments under the Tesoro Panama revolver of $27 million.
Turning to the second quarter the second quarter typically see seasonal increases in demand for gasoline and distillates in PADD V.
Quarter-over-quarter demand increases of greater than 4% are typical for gasoline and jet and increases over 7% are typical for diesel.
However high crude oil prices that result in high product prices can temper demand growth.
Reductions in supply from planned and unplanned refinery maintenance on the West Coast have supported crack spreads quarter to date which are in line with last year.
In the Mid-Continent gasoline and diesel crack spreads remain strong in line with last year driven by a continued significant feedstock cost advantage.
So far in the second quarter the average discount of WTI to Brent remains about $16 per barrel in line with the second quarter of last year.
I'll close with guidance for second quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 145 to 155 in the Pacific Northwest 55 to 65 in the Mid-Pacific 105 to 115 in the Mid-Continent and 255 to 265 in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the second quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $3.95 in the Pacific Northwest; $4.60 in the Mid-Pacific; $4.25 in the Mid-Continent; and $6.10 in the California region.
Slightly lower throughput rates in the Pacific Northwest to Mid-Pacific regions reflect planned turnaround activity at our Alaska and Hawaii refineries.
Throughput guidance for the Mid-Continent region includes the impact of tie-in work related to the expansion at our North Dakota refinery.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $93 million.
Additional second quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $38 million and interest expense before interest income of $37 million.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
With the California turnaround activity behind us we now look forward to driving higher refinery utilization in the second quarter.
We are also encouraged with our continued success in driving improvements in the business and delivering on the plan that we laid out for our investors.
With that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Arjun Murti representing Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned the Mandan project was on track.
I'm wondering if you could talk about what additional running room you see to further expand that facility after this phase given the pretty dramatic growth in Bakken production.
And then relatedly in Salt Lake I think a number of the E&amp;P companies are struggling to find a home for their waxy crude.
What opportunities do you see at that plant to expand and take some of the waxy crude? The Mandan refinery once we complete the expansion that we've been working on the refinery becomes basically balanced.
So we effectively use all of the assets there and there really is no room for further expansion with one exception.
And that's what we stated before where we will produce additional ultra-low sulfur diesel during 2013 by changing our yield and moving a little bit away from gasoline to diesel.
Regarding Salt Lake as you're aware we have -- we are in progress of executing a project to process more of the -- both the yellow wax and black wax crude.
Today we run about 10 000 to 11 000 barrels a day and we anticipate doubling that over the next couple of years as we complete the work at the refinery which will allow us to also increase the capacity of the refinery slightly as well as improve the yields at the Salt Lake City refinery.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Greg just on Mandan you mentioned this debottleneck will kind of max it out or balance it as you said.
Is it more that further expansion required significantly more material investment? Yes Arjun.
I mean we basically have to put in crude units and processing units that weren't completely balanced.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then do you have any comments on maybe your same-store sales demand numbers in California for gasoline at your marketing facilities? How are those numbers trending? Let me let Dan comment on the marketing activities for you Arjun.
Okay yes.
Sure.
On a year-on-year basis same-store sales are down probably close to 1%.
And California is really consistent with that number and that's our same-store sales year-on-year.
If you take a look at our average sales per store not make it on a same-store basis just average per store we are essentially flat to a bit up.
Research Division</strong> And do you think you are in part taking share there or is the market really flattening out to maybe only down 1% or so? It's tough to -- I think we're all struggling with the DOE numbers and whether they are accurate or not.
I don't have any particular insight there.
We think we've got a good brand in the right markets with well-operated stores.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert representing Simmons.
Research Division</strong> There's been a fair amount of volatility around Bakken discounts.
We track the Bloomberg Clearbrook numbers which are public but I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the dynamics that were driving some of the wider discounts earlier this quarter and they've narrowed significantly since.
What do you think is driving that? And what are your expectations for the summer on Bakken discounts? Yes this is Dan I'll take that one.
The early quarter discounts we suspect were largely driven by reliability in Canadian synthetic crude oil production and Canadian in general and the continued increase in domestic production of Bakken and hitting logistics constraints of getting both of those crudes out of the marketplace.
And to the extent that the production profile continues to increase in both Canada due to reliability as well as Bakken then we expect those discounts are going to continue until pipeline capacity is built out.
So that's quite a bit of a long term.
There is going to be short-term volatility month-to-month.
And based in part and at times on the rail commitments out of the region.
It's difficult to predict on a month-to-month basis what's going to occur but we believe the discounts are going to be with us on average for at least the next 1 to 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Has there been some improvement in the rail logistics out of the Bakken? Or do you think the recent compression of the discounts is caused by something else? Well we think there is rail traffic heading out of the Bakken.
And in fact our rail facility comes on in the middle in the second quarter so we'll be part of that.
And there is some additional railcars themselves which are part of the logistics constraint that are coming into the marketplace.
That disconnect though I believe is a short-term phenomenon.
I mean it's just a matter of the purchasers securing their barrels at the lease relative to the Clearbrook trade center.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just general update perhaps on the large project at Salt Lake City.
Salt Lake City Ed is in the permitting phase right now and so we're working through it.
Besides doing the engineering work behind the lines behind the scenes but we're progressing the permit pretty well.
And at this point in time everything looks to be on schedule what we've talked about when we announced the project back in December.
Research Division</strong> And so in terms of going out to get sort of like actual contracts on all the items and capital equipment that's all been done? Or is that still ahead of you guys? No.
That's all being done so we're progressing well.
And as we said in December the 2 phases December 13 and 14 should come online in line with the production commitments that we have from Newfield.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay good.
And then obviously there's been a little battle going on in the Mid-Continent with CVI.
So it seems like there will be a package of assets for sale out there.
And there's Gulf assets and there's probably more other refineries out there that we're not aware of that are for sale.
So just remind us of your appetite to leverage the balance sheet given interest rates are very low to perhaps bulk up outside California.
Our intent has basically been -- remains unchanged.
And that is in our geographic area in our footprint if assets that fit our kind of our integrated model become available that we would be very interested in looking at those assets.
But as you described some of the assets that are available in the market today most of those aren't in our area.
Research Division</strong> So it's still a very focused approach.
Yes absolutely.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng representing Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A number of quick questions hopefully.
Scott can you give me what is the working capital? Sure Paul.
Working capital was $838 million including cash $520 million excluding cash and debt.
Research Division</strong> $838 million is including the cash already? Yes $838 million including cash $520 million excluding cash and the current portion of long-term debt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe this is for Greg.
You guys talked about the same-store sales down 1% in the first quarter.
So far in April you said similar or that is getting a little bit better a little bit worse? This is Dan let me take a shot at that.
We're seeing April demand increase seasonally.
Year-on-year we're flat to a bit down.
Research Division</strong> Flat to a bit down.
And it doesn't really make such a big difference whether it's California or the rest of your system I presume? Yes.
California is within 1% or so of the rest of the regions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Dan or maybe Greg do you have an update of your logistic of the view or action on Hawaii? Yes Paul.
On Hawaii we actually went to market with our teaser on the beginning of this week.
So we are in full process to try to move forward along the lines of our original schedule which we expect to have a decision made by the second half of this year.
Research Division</strong> And I don't know if this is appropriate but does the Tesoro Logistics look at the logistic piece of the asset and see what kind of revenue it may fit? Paul we look at every possibility.
I mean we don't -- no stone goes unturned as far as when we look at an asset.
So we absolutely look at everything that we would consider as ways to capture the best value with the asset.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us some share with us some preliminary -- you'd probably -- well it's okay -- I think you probably not going to talk about what logistic company think that their assets make worth.
Yes probably not.
Research Division</strong> Too early and not competitive.
Yes right.
Research Division</strong> From a competitive position you don't want to comment probably.
No.
Research Division</strong> I know that it's still early on but I'm sure that you guys already looking at the next wave of potential investment.
Is there anything that you can share that what may be a likely investment project that you guys are currently -- seriously consider? In answer to your question Paul I think previously we stated that we have -- our approach is to have a group of people go out and look at the entire refining marketing logistics assets around each of our refineries and we -- that was the origination of the projects that we're implementing now.
And that team of people is out doing that work now so it's just too early to comment on that but I think it is important to state that we are continuing that scan across the assets to see what possibilities there are.
And if there are any we'll talk about those when the time comes.
Research Division</strong> Greg or Scott I think previously that you gave some form of expectation of the CapEx for the next couple of years.
And is those expectation now change or that is still pretty much intact? At this point in time our plans for both turnaround and CapEx that we provided in December of last year Paul those are the best estimate at this point in time.
When we rework our budget during the second half of the year if there are any modifications then we'll talk about them in December.
Research Division</strong> But so far there's no cost pressure or anything that had led you to believe that the number may need to change? No.
Research Division</strong> So you change that you will be -- if you're adding new project there are costings.
The projects some of them are a continuation of what we've been doing and there is no change at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> In Mandan and Salt Lake City given the dynamic of the crude discount and it look like that everyone is going to want to exploit it if they could including you guys.
So will the company as a result of targeting that region to have 100% cost integration between the refining and the retail trying to fund as much all that as possible and where are you right now? I presume that you want 100% but where are you now? I mean we are targeting a very high level of integration around both Salt Lake and Mandan as you stated and we have made a lot of progress on the integration levels.
But we have some room to continue to improve the integration at both of those refineries.
Research Division</strong> Greg can you tell us what is the percent of integration in those 2 markets at this point? Paul let me let Louie follow up with you on that.
I don't have that on my fingertips but it is an area where we need to grow more I can tell you that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As final question on the Bakken loading facility I believe you have permit for 30 000 barrels per day and that if you're going to do every day then you will be able to essentially double it to 60 000.
So have you already submitted the application and where are we in that process? Regarding the project to deliver Bakken crude oil to Anacortes first let us say we are -- the project -- our people are doing a great job of executing that project.
And as I stated in my comments we are ahead of schedule.
So that to us is very encouraging because of the value that's there and the physical design of the system is designed to take -- it could physically take a unit train every day which would be 60 000 barrels a day.
We are currently permitted for less than that but we are working through the process to hopefully increase the capability to maximize the use of the facility.
Research Division</strong> Have you already submitted the application? We are in -- that's in progress Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin representing Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> We've seen some correlation in the past with the long-haul import barrels and just directionally where underlying Brent-WTI migrates.
As Seaway starts up here I think there's a lot of uncertainty around that.
People have quoted ranges all over the map and I was just wondering if there's any kind of change to the mechanics of those long-haul imported barrels that come into California just for -- or an easier way to think about that as we deal with this volatility in the benchmark? Sam during the first quarter we made the decision to transition our barrels to Brent benchmark on the foreign waterborne barrels and so we have completed that.
And so we now price the domestic land barrels on WTI and the rest on Brent.
So that's completed for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And those are fixed at typically at a discount I would imagine because of the grade? Yes well they're tied to the grade of the crude oil and the location.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow representing Macquarie Capital.
Greg on the Bakken-Anacortes project you said you're ahead on the project.
Can you give us details on any changes to schedule? Originally Chi we said that the project will come on the fourth quarter.
Now it looks like it will be operational in September.
In September okay.
So initially here is it just your swapping out 30-day ANS for Bakken.
Is that how we should think about this? Yes that is a good assumption.
Okay.
And then on the product side you mentioned a yield improvement.
Can you give us some details on how much incremental light product volumes you're expecting and what production are you backing out on the product line? Yes.
Probably as a rule of thumb Chi the best thing to assume is is that for the Bakken barrels that we substitute for ANS it will improve the gas and diesel by about 16%.
Okay.
Each or...
In total.
We've basically reduced the fuel oil production by 16% and produce gasoline and diesel.
Okay.
So fuel down and gas and diesel up.
Yes on the 30 000 barrels a day.
Got it okay.
Another question it looks like your cost structure in refining is trending well downwards.
The first quarter results is this going to be kind of a ratable level that we could expect going forward on costs? Let me let Dan give you some feedback on that Chi.
Yes Chi we're pleased with the first quarter performance.
The improvement is driven by a couple of factors one being the low natural gas prices.
So as long as those are with us we'll continue strong improvement.
We're also benefiting from continued reliability of the assets which is driving down our fixed costs.
And we are making progress on our other non-energy variable.
So at a constant gas price to Q1 we should expect this to be more of the norm.
Great that's a really nice performance there.
The final question.
You mentioned a few of the turnarounds in the second quarter.
Alaska and Hawaii I believe.
Can you give us kind of a view on the full schedule for the year what's remaining in the year? I think 2 things Chi.
One is the most important thing is that we completed an extensive turnaround at Martinez during the first quarter as you're well aware and then we have -- we are -- we will do turnarounds at Alaska and Hawaii during the second quarter.
And once we get past that our turnaround schedule for the rest of the year is very light.
So nothing at Salt Lake? No.
The rest of the year is light turnaround activity.
Okay.
And then Golden Eagle were you up running back full at the beginning of the second quarter? No.
Golden Eagle came up during March so we were up during the -- sorry during the second quarter we were -- it came up about middle of March.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up from Chi a bit.
The overall market outlook in California in PADD V could you just talk about how you see the rest of the turnaround schedule? My concern I guess is that typically we have a lot of turnaround and margins go up and then everyone comes out of turnaround and margins go down.
And I just wondered if that's the outlook for the summer or if there are things you feel may change there? I think the turnaround activity in California with what's public available to us is that it's behind us for the most part now so the refiners are there prepared to run.
And barring any unexpected downtimes in that the fundamentals as far as inventory levels on that looks supportive even.
We've talked briefly about the demand so I think the market's positioned for a reasonably good outlook here going forward for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there should be quite a bit more supply.
But at the same time I'm thinking the demand is actually looking okay isn't it? I was just looking at some California month travel dates and it's looking quite healthy actually.
Yes the demand looks good and from what we've seen regarding exports the exports are continuing at a really supportive level for the West Coast also.
So I think the fundamentals like I said are supportive to a good outlook for California.
Research Division</strong> Greg could you just dig around a bit on the exports a bit? What do you -- can you give us a sense of quantity and destination for those? As far as what's publicly available the levels last year was about 120 000 barrels a day combined for gasoline and diesel and we see that continuing on in that.
So they look good.
That's industry exports off the west PADD V.
Research Division</strong> Is that to Chile? Or do you know where it's going Greg? Primarily Mexico but there is a little other volume going down to the West Coast of South America but primarily Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Greg if we could -- I don't know if this is appropriate time to ask you kind of a long-term strategy question but it seems I've got you.
The CapEx is quite high this year and I think really you've re-guided towards the same number I think.
Then again I think it stays quite high next year.
But I feel that longer term it will be a much lower number.
I know that you could argue that this CapEx cycle that you're going in is almost the restructuring process.
What's your working number for your long-term cash flow or EBITDA or however you want to think about it? And what you think your settling endpoint is for CapEx because at the same time I'd get the sense that you're really restructuring your portfolio on an organic basis? And although you say that you look at potential acquisitions or restructuring to me it feels like it's not really a major priority for you and your real priority is to get Tesoro right with what you've got.
Is that fair? You asked several questions there Paul.
So let me take my best shot at responding to those.
I think one the longer-term view I'd like to hold off until we come back in December because it will give us more time to work projects.
Specifically I think maybe when I was asked a question earlier about other opportunities we're just working those.
The second point I would like to make is that I mean we are -- the value the impact to the company of the organic projects that you alluded to these major capital projects the earnings capability of those project is so powerful that I mean I find that a great opportunity for the company.
And I'm actually hopeful that we can uncover some more of those projects as we go through the rest of the assets.
So we are absolutely focused on capturing projects like the Mandan project the Anacortes crude supply project projects that help dramatically improve our crude oil supply cost and improve our yield structure.
We are very focused on doing that.
However at the same time as we look to have Hawaii leave our portfolio and we continue to focus on our footprint that we think that there'll be opportunities that will become available that will fit in strategically and be very value enhancing to both investors and to our business.
So that's kind of where we stand.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio representing Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I think if I understood your comments Anacortes rail operational in September.
I mean is there any -- should we expect a 30 000 barrel a day kind of ramp or run rate exiting September? And then secondly given your experience through permit filing and processing or having it finalized before -- I mean do you intend to venture any estimate of when you could expect to have an expansion there or get approval for an expansion.
Yes the first question is -- the challenge for us really when we start operations will be working with our railroad to deliver the cars in.
And if you could see what goes on there it's quite impressive.
But hopefully we'll work through with the railroad and get the delivery.
It appears we'll be taking in a unit train every other day as we stated and being able to unload it with highly modern efficient and really environmentally sound operations is going to be quite impressive.
So maybe a slight ramp up but it's really all contingent upon just the smoothness of the railroad delivering it.
The answer to your second question is is that we're going through the process to permit and we're optimistic that we'll have success there.
And once that happens then we'll make everyone aware that we've been successful.
Research Division</strong> And the permitting is the primary gating item there right? It's the only item.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Of the $55 million CapEx spend in Anacortes I mean do you see the opportunity to recoup most of that value in an MLP drop down? It's our intent as we stated almost from day one when we reveal the project that it is our intent to put that into the logistics company.
Research Division</strong> And maybe lastly if I were just to comment there's been a few reports of smaller topping plants planned in the Bakken and just kind of maybe any comments on what you're seeing on that front and any impact that could have on local product balance.
From our standpoint I mean one of the things that we've been stressing and driving is the importance of being an integrated business.
So as one of the previous questions our focus continues to be to really have a very highly integrated refining marketing and logistics business not only at North Dakota but also in Salt Lake and in our other facilities.
So it wouldn't have an impact on what we do as a company to get value out of the marketplace with that type of competition.
That's not something that would be a threat to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan representing Citi.
Research Division</strong> Faisel from Citi.
Kinder Morgan I think is announcing a potential expansion of its Trans Mountain pipeline into the West Coast.
I was wondering how you guys think about that project and would you take capacity on that line? Well just some brief background.
That pipeline has supplied crude oil to the refineries in the State of Washington for 50-plus years and so it is vital to the supply to the refineries.
And our outlook is is that Canadian supply will continue to be one of the key parts of supply to our refinery there going forward.
And we'll take the steps necessary to make sure we have secure supply into the refinery.
Research Division</strong> And is it possible to get some of those crude volumes down to California and the West Coast? Today it isn't.
But in the future if the plans go forward as they have talked about then it does create more capacity out of Vancouver which that would provide that option to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just wondering in California are you guys at max blending for ethanol? Yes.
We stay at 10% blending.
We are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there was no benefit of the drop in ethanol prices into blending it to gasoline for the quarter? There is a benefit because of the way ethanol prices during Q1 there definitely less.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was it significant or was it -- how should I look at that actually? I mean there was a benefit.
If you look at the prices of gasoline you can see that there was a benefit.
It was a significant benefit.
Thank you for your participation for today's conference.
This now concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and all have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 Tesoro Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Catherine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Catherine.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our second quarter 2012 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Louie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking the time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
Despite significant turnaround activity during the quarter we delivered solid operating performance with refinery utilization of 87%.
This allowed us to capture strong crack spreads and advantaged discounts on crude oil supply.
We continued to reduce operating expenses with adjusted manufacturing costs of $4.69 per barrel.
The combined result is reflected in our adjusted second quarter earnings of $2.87 per diluted share and our quarter-end cash balance of over $1.3 billion.
We also made significant progress on several strategic fronts during the quarter.
We completed our North Dakota refinery expansion.
And today that refinery is running full at 68 000 barrels per day.
That $35 million project is expected to generate over $80 million of annual EBITDA using an average 2011 price environment.
If we look at margin so far this year the annual EBITDA potential increases to about $100 million.
And we expect to begin loading the first unit train of price and quality advantage Bakken crude oil destined for our Anacortes Washington refinery later this month.
Our rail and unloading facility with permitted capacity of 50 000 barrels per day is nearing the estimated early September completion.
We continue to expect the new vacuum tower at our Wilmington California refinery to be operational in the fourth quarter of this year shifting just under 1 percentage point yield from low valued petroleum coke to light product production.
These high return capital projects allow us to expand our advantage position in the Bakken and drive improvements in product yields.
The end result is an enhanced competitive position for our refineries and the potential for significant growth in earnings and cash flow.
We also made meaningful progress on our refining and marketing integration with the addition of 165 stations in Southern California from Thrifty Oil Company.
In the third quarter we intend to add the remaining 9 stations to our retail system completing the Thrifty integration planned schedule for 2012.
These additions along with another 50 sites we expect to add in 2014 should provide between 20 000 and 25 000 barrels per day of ratable and profitable demand allowing us to sustain high refinery utilization.
In addition we completed the first IPO -- post-IPO asset sale to Tesoro Logistics early in the second quarter generating $75 million of incremental value and demonstrating our commitment to capturing the full value of our logistics assets.
Yesterday we announced our intent to sell the Long Beach marine terminal and pipeline assets to Tesoro Logistics in the third quarter.
These assets support not only our Wilmington California refinery but other third-party refineries as well.
We also reaffirmed our intent to offer the Anacortes Washington rail and unloading facility to Tesoro Logistics.
We expect that transaction to occur in the fourth quarter.
The transactions we announced yesterday which add between $35 million and $45 million of annual logistics EBITDA combined with organic growth already underway at TLLP will continue to grow the value of Tesoro's investments in these assets providing additional value to our shareholders.
The solid operating results and success on multiple strategic fronts continue to grow earnings and cash flow and further strengthen our balance sheet.
Our strategic priorities for cash are to maintain a minimum cash balance of about $600 million to $750 million maintain leverage of less than 30% invest in growth opportunities to drive value creation and return excess cash to shareholders.
With $1.3 billion of cash on the balance sheet leverage of 28% and significant growth capital spending underway we're to the point now of beginning to return excess cash to shareholders.
The $500 million share repurchase program and $0.12 per share quarterly dividend approved by our Board of Directors and announced yesterday represented significant commitment to return nearly 50% -- 15% of our current market capitalization to shareholders.
This is in addition to delevering the balance sheet with our intention to redeem the remaining $299 million of 2012 senior notes.
Now turning to the results for the quarter.
Product inventories below the 5-year average supported stronger crack spreads on the West Coast while seasonally strong domestic crude oil production provided additional feedstock cost advantage in our Mid-Continent and Pacific Northwest region.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the second quarter averaged nearly $15 per barrel up $2.75 from a year ago.
However the company's realized gross margin was up nearly $4 to $20.32 per barrel driven by our strong operational reliability and feedstock advantage.
Refinery throughput rates during the quarter averaged 579 000 barrels per day or 87% utilization.
If you exclude the Hawaiian and Alaskan operations which were impacted by plant turnaround activity utilization was 98%.
Manufacturing costs average $4.69 per barrel excluding special items down both sequentially and year-over-year.
We have made good progress reducing our operating expenses primarily in our California region.
Our retail segment reported its most profitable quarter with $74 million in operating income.
This was driven by higher fuel sales volumes which were up 11% year-over-year as a result of the company's strategic focus on refining and marketing integration.
Retail marketing margins were strong during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is typical in a falling crude oil price environment.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up about 2% relative to last year.
Capital spending for the second quarter was $148 million.
Turnaround spending was $64 million.
We continue to plan for 2012 capital spending of $670 million including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
We now expect about $260 million in turnaround spending for 2012.
This $40 million reduction relative to prior guidance is driven predominantly by our decision to move some West Coast plant turnaround activity from the fourth quarter this year to early 2013.
With the completion of the work at our Alaska and Hawaii refineries we have completed the majority of our planned spend for the year.
As we look forward we remain cautiously optimistic about U.S.
refining market conditions.
Independent of the favorable market conditions we are driving significant value from our existing asset base.
As we shared with you in the past we are focused on driving operational efficiency and effectiveness with a relentless focus on becoming a superior operator.
Our balance sheet and cash flows are strong and we're investing in high return short payback projects that will drive fundamental improvements in our business and deliver further cash flow growth.
Now we're well positioned to begin returning cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and a regular dividend.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of the quarterly results and to provide guidance for the third quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night second quarter net income was $387 million or $2.75 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we're reporting an adjusted net income of $404 million or $2.87 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include after-tax $11 million in legal matters primarily the settlement of the claims arising from the April 2010 incident in our Anacortes Washington refinery partially offset by a receipt of pipeline tariff refunds and a $6 million after-tax accrual related to a benefit change for our retirement-eligible employees.
That compares to adjusted net income in the second quarter of last year of $237 million or $1.65 per diluted share.
Special items last year included after-tax net expenses of $19 million related to business interruption and property damage insurance proceeds the writeoff of expenses associated with the change in the scope of a project on our Wilmington California refinery and a one-time interest expense related to the repayment of debt during the quarter of last year.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $1.3 billion up over $600 million during the quarter.
This building cash reflects EBITDA of $765 million plus working capital and other sources of $110 million plus that revolver borrowings of $27 million less capital and turnaround spending of $220 million less cash interest and taxes of $53 million and less equity distributions and share repurchases of $25 million.
We remained undrawn on the corporate revolver with nearly $950 million of additional revolving credit capacity.
Tesoro Panama and Tesoro Logistics ended the quarter with $50 million and $118 million borrowed on their separate revolving credit facilities.
This includes the $68 million Tesoro Logistics borrowed concurrent with April 1 purchase of the Martinez Crude Oil Marine Terminal.
Partnership also exercises option to double the size of its revolving credit facility to $300 million.
We ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of 28% down a percentage point from the end of the first quarter this year.
As we pointed out in our press release in an effort to continue strengthening our balance sheet we reaffirmed our intention to redeem the remaining $299 million of 2012 senior notes.
Turning to the third quarter.
The third quarter typically sees a slight seasonal increase in demand for gasoline and distillates in PADD V.
Recorded today we've seen higher-than-average refinery utilization rates on the West Coast.
This is likely driven by a general restocking of light products as inventories fell well below the 5-year range during the second quarter.
These higher refinery run rates had put pressure on crack spreads quarter-to-date which are down sequentially.
In the Mid-Continent gasoline and the diesel crack spreads remain strong driven by a continued feedstock cost advantage.
So far on this third quarter the average discount of WTI to Brent remains above $14 per barrel.
I'll close the guidance for the third quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day for the third quarter: 150 000 to 160 000 barrels in the Pacific Northwest; 75 000 to 85 000 and the Mid-Pacific; 120 000 to 130 000 in the Mid-Continent; and 255 000 to 265 000 in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the third quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $4.65 in the Pacific Northwest; $3.20 in the Mid-Pacific; $3.75 in the Mid-Con; and $6.15 in the California region.
Throughput guidance for the Mid-Continent region include the impact of the recently completed expansion at our North Dakota refinery that Greg mentioned earlier.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $95 million for the quarter.
Additional third quarter guidance items includes estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $39 million and interest expense before interest income of $37 million.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are very pleased with our second quarter results.
With the bulk of the 2012 plant turnaround activity behind us we look forward to driving higher refinery utilization in the third quarter which based on our guidance should be about 92%.
We are encouraged with our continued success in driving improvements in the business and delivering on the plan we laid out for our investors.
Before we close I'd like to take just a minute and discuss the recent settlement agreement with the families of the employees who lost their lives as a result of the tragic incident at our Anacortes refinery in April of 2010.
The agreement settles all claims against the company brought by the families of our 7 fallen friends and coworkers.
We believe the settlement is in the best interest of the families our company and our employees.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A number of portfolio and store-related quick questions.
The -- for the July same-store gasoline sales do you guys have a number that you can share? You said flat up or down? July Paul are about flat right now.
Year-on-year flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a number of quick balance sheet items.
Scott do you have the working capital for the CCAB? I do Paul.
Working capital is $1.3 billion including cash and debt.
Excluding cash and debt it's $323 million.
Research Division</strong> How about in the MLP what is the working capital and long-term debt? We haven't published that and...
Next week.
Next week we'll publish those results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Greg I think in the unit train the rail car that you have at Bakken in addition to what you're going to use for in the quarter you have probably some excess.
I think it's about 10 000 barrel per data you could potentially do to ship it out to the Gulf Coast.
Is that something that you guys are looking into to take advantage on the spread to do that? Or that this is not really a consideration? And also when you ramp it up that -- what is the sequence that -- are we expecting the initial ratios trying to lower at 30 000 barrels per day and by year-end get to 50? Or what type of timing that we should expect? The answer to your 3 questions are in June Paul we began shipping Bakken crude oil to the Gulf Coast from just a pure utilization of our assets which will now begin to shift over as we load the rail cars to go to Anacortes.
The second question was on the -- I forgot now.
What did you -- what was...
Research Division</strong> How quickly that you -- at what level of the $1 million you'll initially start up? And how quickly are you going to ramp to the 50 000 barrels per day? Yes.
We will ramp to the 50 000 barrels a day through the remainder of the year as we work out the logistics particularly with the railroad.
We're just -- what we don't know is how easy it will be to get the unit trains in and out of there.
Our projected rate of 50 000 barrels a day will be to take a unit train 6 out of 7 days of the week.
And so there's just some uncertainty to that but we'll ramp up gradually over time to get to the 50 000 barrels per day though we should be up around 30 000 to start with.
And then the second thing is the extra 10 000 barrels a day we just need to test the system and see what happens as we move the rate -- unit trains out to the Pacific Northwest and see what opportunity's there.
We just have to wait and see whether we needed the rail cars to go to Anacortes or we can do other movements to the Gulf Coast or other places.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And also tell me I think your permit is up to 50 000 barrels per day.
In theory if you load it everyday you can get to 60 000 barrels per day.
Are you still in the process of getting the permit up to 60 000 barrels per day? Or that because it's already a 50 000 you are not going to be bothered by that? At the present time Paul we're working on the 50 000 to get everything to work how it has and we are pursuing other opportunities.
And we may consider moving crude oil to California.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two final questions.
One on the timing of the buyback do you have a target timing when that  you're going to complete that $500 million? Secondly that for the regular dividend I think your shareholder love that.
And at -- I mean comparing to your earning power it's still at pretty low rate.
Should we assume that even though you just initiate it it doesn't mean that for the rest of the year you will not reconsider the payout rate? Or that you're probably not going to consider until next year? Regarding the dividend your second question we will periodically go back and relook at the performance of the business and our dividend rate and that and then make those decisions as we go over time.
And regarding the stock buyback we have a program in place that we will execute over time which will -- but without any definite as we said in the press release without a definite timeframe when we will complete the $500 million repurchase.
The next question is from the line of Jeff Dietert from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> You've been successful with a number of your large capital program projects and those are moving towards completion some of them are already completed.
As you look forward do you see another round of large capital programs? Do you think the $305 million of growth CapEx you've talked about for 2013 might have some upside with some additional projects? It's just probably too early to comment on that Jeff.
We are -- we're right in the midst of preparing our plans for '13 and '14 and I mean we are looking across -- like we have said in the past we're looking at all the refineries as different ideas and opportunities.
But right now it's just premature to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And secondly on the refining integration with your acquisitions.
You've made significant progress and moved from 30% integration to 72% integration.
Can you talk about where you are in that progress? And how much more integration you see to hit an optimal level? Yes this is Dan.
Let me take that one Jeff.
We're currently sitting at a normally 76% integration and expect to end the year close to 80%.
I think our eventual target is to get close to 85% to 90%.
And I think we'd be satisfied at that level.
The next question is from Chi Chow from MacQuarrie capital.
I guess a follow-up on Paul's question on the buyback just real quick.
We've heard various strategies from your competitors on the utilization of buybacks ranging from buying in the market daily to some sort of having certain formulas determine optimal buyback pricing.
What is yours? Can you outline your strategy or philosophy on the timing? Our intensions are to be -- to approach it opportunistically as we go out into the market when we look at where valuations and the opportunities are to buy.
So that's how we'll execute the strategy.
Okay great.
In the Mid-Con looks like you improved your capture rates relative to the published index first couple of quarters this year you made a little bit of mention on your prepared remarks.
But can you talk about any specific operational or strategic changes you've made to cause that uptick in the capture? Yes.
I'll take that this is Dan.
Yes it was a strong quarter for us from a reliability perspective and we expect that to continue.
The real value that added force in the quarter is it allowed us to capture the Bakken relative to TI differentials.
So if you looked at the trade months of March through May which are the crude purchase months for the second quarter you would see a clear book differential relative to TI close to the $8 to $9 barrel range.
And we were able to capture that with a high reliability.
So that's the BPs.
Great.
And final question any updates on the progress at Hawaii? Regarding Hawaii Chi we are actually targeting according to our plan.
We have received indicative bids for Hawaii.
They were -- it was encouraging to us the level of interest on the Hawaii assets.
We have a plan as we stated that we would hope to complete the transaction by -- at the end of this year and that looks very likely.
And probably the only other comment is that we have evaluated our working capital position which was -- it's going to be higher than what we had previously said.
And as of the end of the second quarter the net working capital that we would expect to realize from the sale is in excess of $300 million excluding those sale for the PP&amp;A.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Terreston from ISI.
Research Division</strong> So most of my refining questions have been answered.
But in marketing results were obviously very strong I think a quarterly record for you guys.
And it looks like your sales volume seemed to be rising a lot faster than the rate at which you added stations and I'm just comparing versus the year-ago period.
And so I want to see if you could just provide some color on that result and some of the factors that might be driving the positive performance there? Yes I'll take that one.
And that'd be -- year-on-year our sales on same stores were up close to 2%.
And I guess we'd like to just characterize that as strong brands well operated.
The total volume improvement that we're seeing on year-on-year is the sum of of course the Shell volumes that have come and they're at full capacity; the SVU that we had the first full quarter of; and then the -- Thrifty did actually add probably between nominally 5 000 to 10 000 barrels a day on average during the second quarter.
So we're about where we expected to be on our improvement in the refining and marketing integration.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a -- I guess on TLLP.
So you -- if you look at sort of first half I think you're running about $30 million of EBITDA annualize that you get to $60 million.
You drop down these assets and you get to $100 million which is back in line with your guidance for 2013 at the time of the Analyst Day last year.
I mean what are your thoughts about further drop-downs and further growth.
And any early indications of what the GP distribution might be for 2013? Well let me go back -- I think I need to clarify your comment.
Our actual -- I think you're correct on our run rates on EBITDA so far.
But with the organic growth that we already had going and the drop-down of the marine facility up at our Golden Eagle refinery we expect it to be which we have said at $100 million of EBITDA run rate by the end of this year.
Then in addition you then need to add on what we just said regarding both the 2 drop-downs the Anacortes rail and loading facility in the fourth quarter and the Long Beach marine terminal.
And that additional EBITDA which we gave guidance on between $35million and $45m million gets you up approaching to $150 million of EBITDA by next year which is higher than what we had previously said.
So I just wanted to make sure I clarified that point about that.
And then secondly we have no further -- we'll reveal our plans for the logistics company in the fourth quarter like we do for Tesoro where we look out for '13 and beyond.
So we don't have any other guidance on that.
And our distributions will just continue to grow as we've often said from standpoint Ed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So I had it planned on the TLLP EBITDA.
Just on the other projects I mean obviously you were doing this sort of ninja team going around each of the refineries anything to report in terms of other ideas for the project CapEx? No I think it's goes back to an earlier question on the -- where we stand.
We're -- I mean we're just in the midst of doing that right now.
And it's just too early to comment on that.
And we'll be prepared to do that come the end of the year but you're exactly right we look at all our core facilities for the opportunities.
And we'll share those fully in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a final question just a smaller question.
Your Pacific Northwest throughputs are going up yet your cost guidance on a per barrel basis is also going up for the third quarter.
Just wondering why that might be the case? Yes it's a good question.
I'm going to let Dan comment on that for you Ed.
Yes sure.
What we're seeing in the Pacific Northwest specifically on operating costs is related to 2 items.
The first is natural gas prices for the third quarter are a bit higher than second quarter still well below historic averages but up relative to Q2 so that's -- that has an impact.
And then in Alaska we have some -- a reformer work that's planned and is carried over from the turnaround work we did in the second quarter that has some fixed cost related to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So those costs should come down after the -- I mean obviously nat gas will -- we will have a view on.
But after the reformer work's done there should be some cost saving.
That's correct.
Your next question is from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a higher level question.
Can you run me through how you think about the priorities of the 5 cash flow usage with the -- you introduced new priorities last night I mean we've -- you have maintenance CapEx dividend growth buyback and further debt repayment? So I mean -- meaning is is the dividend just behind you're maintenance CapEx and the buybacks should be considered more the swing based upon margins and differentials? Yes.
As we look out at -- into our cash management really of the company I mean we are -- if we stated our priorities which you correctly went back and stated in first and foremost we are very focused on finding the opportunities that drive sustainable value and help competitive -- creates a competitive edge that we're trying to do.
And witnessed by a couple of other questions earlier about our capital programs we're out really focusing on trying to capture those things.
So we believe the best value creation is by doing the things that we're doing.
And for example we -- our Salt Lake City project which we expect to get permits on shortly will be a significant improvement when it starts to come online in 2013.
But we will -- our focus is to continue to do that.
The dividends we believe fit perfectly well in with our -- the way we change the capital structure of the company to significantly reduce the debt that we've talked about.
So we see that working very effectively.
And the swing will be share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And when -- within this kind of new reallocation of usage I mean should we -- I mean we assumed that refining acquisitions are a lower priority amongst the cash flow you see sitting in the portfolio and the focus to return cash to shareholders.
We have always maintained that our -- where we -- our footprint the areas where we conduct business we like that market area.
We like the things that drive the business in that area.
We've also said that we've looked at all the possibilities of things that would be of interest to us.
And if those opportunities were to present themselves and fit in strategically with what we're trying to do which allows us to create a stronger integrated business where we can gain crude advantage and capture synergies within our system we would pursue those acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got you.
The smaller question on Long Beach marine terminal and the rail and loading facility that you're going to offer to TLLP.
I mean can you give me an -- either an aggregate or just kind of separate tax basis on those assets? No we don't do that.
But there's -- there will be no tax implications to the drop-down.
Research Division</strong> Well meaning -- okay so you're -- the proceeds your basis will equal what you estimate the sale proceeds are? I'm confused.
Yes.
We -- as they're managed so we can drop those down effectively.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's wonderful.
And maybe even one last one if I could.
With the Northern Tier Energy MLP introduced really your refining MLP with a yield that represents a valuation lift versus cash flow and I know tax friction is a part of that but as you see that structure as somewhat new and you think about that within your portfolio do you have any comments on either the kind of suitability or kind of potential within your portfolio? I think you've made some comments that probably pretty accurately captured how that market price is at.
I think -- I mean we looked very seriously and made a very attractive offer to Northern Tier Energy to buy that business from them.
And the -- we believe the market priced the variable-rate MLP how much it should have.
I mean it is something that we don't see -- we'll look at it but we don't see it as an attractive vehicle.
It's -- doesn't -- it's not consistent with what we're trying to do for our investors to create value over time to commit to a distribution that's basically unknown with potential cost for regulatory in that.
And to be able to go out and do that we believe we have an obligation to provide a better investment to our shareholders.
So it's not something that we find attractive.
Your next question comes from the line of Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually just a follow-up to your answer there Greg I thought it was an interesting answer.
Is what you find unattractive the fact that that structure makes you have to pay out all your free cash flow in terms of dividends and therefore it might impede investment opportunities or something else along those lines? Right that's a part of it yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes great.
Separately you've recently highlighted the value of retail integration.
I guess especially for California one of your peers of course is announcing that they're going to separate and spin out retail and we'll see what they get for it.
I think as it pertains to your California business given what you view as the value of integration can we presume it's unlikely to sort of pursue the -- a similar type of strategy about separating that retail? Yes.
Arjun our focus has been to grow the retail and -- retail and the marketing and refining integration.
And we try to do that very capital light so not investing in buying stations.
In certain instances like SUPERVALU because of the market area that was something that we chose to do.
But our growth -- if you go back and look at -- our growth has been done extremely well without investing a lot of capital and that's our intention to do that.
Regarding our existing retail position of what the company owns I mean we'd look at things over time.
But right now we have no intention to pursue that.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just a final one on the overall California gasoline demand environment.
I think I heard you say same-store sales were flat I might have misheard that.
But do you have any comments generally how things are trending in terms of California demand? It sounds like things have stabilized but I'd be interested in your views.
The California demand is -- it's -- I mean it -- we believe as you -- you probably said it correctly it has stabilized the same-store sales because we have a significant retail position in California up year-on-year.
In July we're flat.
So we've consistently said that we think California has kind of hit the trowel and things may not be the Golden State but it looks pretty good on a go-forward basis from what we see.
And we've also said that -- last year we delivered $0.5 billion of EBITDA out of our California operations and our continued focus there is paying off.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick question.
I guess just stretching for things that haven't been asked yet.
But exports anything to report on that front? Or maybe a little off the reservation with Anacortes is there any potential there to move things to other markets other than California? The export market continues to be good off at the West Coast.
It looked -- and as we look forward we think it will continue to maintain a pretty favorable position.
We are active participants in the export market from wherever the economics tell us to come from so it can come from Anacortes or our California refinery.
We just -- it just depends on how things are priced.
So it's been good and it -- the outlook is good for exports off the West Coast.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does Anacortes get any -- with the incremental crude coming from the Bakken presumably at a lower price on a sustained basis from what you've been using does that make it more competitive? Should it make more competitive relative to other units on the West Coast yours and others? Yes the Bakken crude definitely gives the -- has a big impact on the margin of the Anacortes refinery.
I mean we've talked about the impact and prior guidance of what that does to the refinery with the Bakken crude supply.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question.
The shift of the turnarounds in California from Q4 this year to Q1 what were sort of the drivers on that? Well it's not necessarily Q1 it's into the first part of 2013.
So it's just typical management of the planned activity and that how we can move things around and just optimizing our turnaround activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Not a permitting challenge or anything like that? No no no.
Just pure -- we manage them and try to optimize as we go through the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin from Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a question I guess most of the company-specific stuff has been answered and it all sounds great but something more market-related.
Your comments about Hawaii kind of align with some other things that sellers of assets have been talking about in just in terms of accelerating interest levels.
Can you just speak to the M&amp;A market as a seller? And just maybe generally who's coming in here? Is it industry consolidation? Or is it -- do you think it's more outside or private money similar to what we've seen on the East Coast? It's just a -- it's a good cross-section of all types of market participants.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
Yes I mean I think that one of the reasons that everybody trades at 3x EBITDA is because there's been no real NAV metric.
So if -- do you think -- are you getting a sense that just sort of underlying valuations where capacity are increasing with all this interest? Or is it really just more just the volume of it? I think Hawaii is probably not an asset where you can make a generalization across like the rest of U.S.
because of its location but the valuations will be reasonable.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of -- actually a few quick ones if I may.
So you're pushing via maintenance into 2013.
Can you give us a prognosis as to how the maintenance in the West Coast looks generally? It seems to us -- with a pretty heavy maintenance in the first half I'm just trying to get an idea if you could expect the same kind of supply both on -- I guess you could see in the second half? Any color you could give would be appreciated.
Are you talking about the second half of '12? Research Division</strong> Yes basically for the industry generally on the West Coast.
I don't -- Doug we don't know anything other than what you could already pick up by other parts of the media and that.
There's no question the maintenance has been pretty light now after we completed the first half maintenance activity on the West Coast.
And our information which is just public sources says the second half of '12 looks reasonably light.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's what we are seeing as well just wanted to check out if it's probably solid.
Anacortes even without the rail facility up and running seem to have take a consistently very strong capture rates.
Should we be resetting our kind of capture rate on a go-forward basis? Is there something structurally changing there? Or if you could give some color on what you think is behind that that would be great.
Yes let me give a shot at that Doug.
What we saw in the second quarter for the Pacific Northwest was extremely strong reliability nearly perfect at Anacortes and that allowed us to capture the strong Canadian differentials.
So same thing that happened on Bakken if you look at the Canadian light sweet differentials relative to WTI we had -- industry-wide the differentials were in that $8 per barrel range.
And that gave us a really strong uptick in capture relative to our index crude.
Similarly we had some really well placed value foreign sweet barrels that came into the full Pacific Northwest.
And so that combination of those 2 factors gave us a real strong performance.
I would expect that we're going to continue to show long-term improvement in PNW but those unique factors are dependent upon the differentials relative to the TI.
Research Division</strong> Got it just two final quick ones if I may.
The -- just a reminder please of how you price your Mid-Continent crude because obviously the big spikes seem to take place in March.
I'm guessing that that helped the second quarter.
Is -- can you just remind is what the lag is in terms of how you're pricing crude? And then I have just 1 final follow-up please.
Just 1 month lag.
So what you guys -- what you'll see in the differentials on March goes into the second quarter.
And similarly June goes into third.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My final one I don't know if this was news to everybody else Greg but talking about Northern Tier and the fact that you might have been interested in that facility.
Can you just give us an idea as to how you see the acquisition pipeline or the opportunity set? Obviously you can't be specific but just is there -- are there still things out there that are of interest to you? Or is it -- has it gone quiet? I'll leave it there.
Yes.
In our -- just to reiterate in our market areas it's actually pretty quiet for things that we would be interested in.
So it's -- not a lot of activity right now.
I mean we'll see what -- things can change over time -- but pretty quiet.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could help me -- it's a little bit of a far off question on the last one.
But I'm looking at the first quarter to second quarter progression of margins in the Pacific Northwest and the Mid-Continent and also looking at the differentials and I'm still struggling to understand the large sort of expansion of margins from the first quarter of this year to the second quarter going from roughly $13 to $22 in the Mid-Continent.
So is it -- I mean the -- is it just differentials or crude differentials? Or is there something else with product prices? And same thing in the Mid-Continent where you've got basically a $15 uplift in margins it doesn't equate -- the $8 to $9 number you talked about for Bakken are clear but pricing wouldn't explain all of that.
Yes I'll take that.
On the Pacific Northwest the Canadian light sweet differentials in that $8 range was a really big piece of it.
But also there is a piece you don't see and that I attempted to mention earlier and that was the foreign sweet barrels that we brought that had a really strong benefit for PNW.
There was one other factor that I didn't mention that won't carry forward and that is we had the turnaround in Q1 Q2 and up north and there was some inventory management during that timeframe conversion into clean products that gave us a benefit in the second quarter that won't replicate itself into the third quarter.
And then the Mid-Continent it is as simple as we've mentioned we've got the strong differentials on Bakken relative to WTI in Mandan and then we've got strong price-advantaged crude in Salt Lake City too the waxy crudes and those priced a bit under WTI.
Research Division</strong> Does the pipelines that you guys control in the Bakken does that enable you to get a better pricing than Clearbrook? It swings.
It can go either way on us so we take a pricing strategy that gives us a blend of risks between the Bakken trade center and the lease.
Now having said that yes.
Owning the -- and having access to the infrastructure in Bakken gives us a logistical advantage a lower transportation cost physically --  because we're physically closer to the barrel that's produced.
Research Division</strong> And was there any swing in the second quarter versus the first quarter that would've given you a benefit in that in having that pipeline logistics? No.
No not on -- purely on the logistics and transportation costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the OpEx the overall OpEx of the company per barrel operating in a basis coming down year-over-year how much would you attribute that to kind of lower natural gas prices versus some of the improvements you've made across the entire system? If you look at it on an absolute cost basis the majority of the improvement is related to the natural car -- or the natural gas price.
Fixed cost are actually holding flat and improving actually all the way back to almost a 2009-type level.
And where we're gaining the advantage there is the strong reliability giving us additional throughput.
So it's spreading across more barrels.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And last question on the -- after the sell down or drop-down of these assets from the S.E.A.
Corp.
into the MLP that you guys have laid out your prepared remarks how much more EBITDA is kind of left at the S.E.A.
Corp.
level that could be dropped into the MLP? Yes Khan we haven't gone in and quantify that EBITDA.
There are some remaining assets that we can drop down into the future but we haven't done that work.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone.
Your next question comes from the line of Cory Garcia from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a quick follow-on to Faisel's last question.
I hesitate to even ask this ahead of sort of the Analyst Day but is there a sort of target that you guys are looking at in terms -- on operating cost front recognize of course that utilization is pretty key? And I'm kind of really focusing more on your Golden Eagle and LA refineries specifically is there -- what are sort of the remaining leverage do you guys see for that? Yes I'll take that.
I think we've been fairly public on our goal to target a $1 per barrel improvement in California.
And the pricing reference period would be essentially a 3-year average '09 '10 '11.
And that's the challenge we've set for our teams.
And we do that through a combination of reliability improvements which are -- drive our whole fixed cost flat and spread the fixed cost across additional barrels as well as synergy improvement and other variable cost target improvements.
Thanks Cory.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Tesoro Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deanna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Deanna.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our third quarter 2012 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment but I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
During the third quarter we again increased refinery utilization rates running total throughput of 626 000 barrels per day or 93% of total capacity the highest level in 4 years.
This allowed us to capture strong crack spreads and advantaged crude discounts on our supply.
We continued to reduce operating expense with manufacturing costs of $4.42 per barrel the lowest since 2007.
The combined result is reflected in our adjusted third quarter earnings of $2.05 per diluted share and our quarter end cash balance of nearly $1.4 billion.
Beyond what you would expect from stock-based compensation expenses our third quarter results were reduced by about $65 million as a result of crude oil delivery disruptions and maintenance activities in our California region as well as increases in our incentive-based compensation accruals.
In addition to the strong operating results we also made significant progress on several strategic fronts during the quarter.
This was our first quarter running the expanded capacity of 68 000 barrels per day at our North Dakota refinery.
The additional EBITDA generated during the quarter alone all but covered the $35 million we spent on the project.
And we began receiving unit trains of price- and quality-advantaged Bakken crude oil at our Anacortes Washington refinery in September.
Our rail unloading facility with permitted capacity of 50 000 barrels per day is operating well and in line with our expectations.
We expect to deliver about 40 000 barrels per day of Bakken crude oil to Anacortes in the fourth quarter.
We expect the new Bakken tower at our Wilmington California refinery to be operational this month shifting just under 1 percentage point yield from low-value petroleum coke to light-product production.
And finally upon receiving all required permits in September we broke ground on the Salt Lake City Conversion Project allowing the refinery to run over 20 000 barrels per day of price-advantaged waxy crude oil increased throughput capacity by 4 000 barrels per day and improve clean product yields.
These high-return-capital projects allow us to broaden our exposure to advantaged crude oil and drive improvements in product yields.
The end result is an enhanced competitive position for our refineries and significant growth in earnings and cash flow.
Beyond these growth capital projects we continue to make progress on other important strategic fronts.
In September we completed the sale of the Long Beach marine terminal and pipeline assets for $210 million the second post-IPO asset sale to Tesoro Logistics.
TLLP funded the purchase of these assets from Tesoro with the proceeds of a $350 million debt offering its first debt offering since the IPO.
The notes priced at 5.875% the lowest yield ever for a first time issuer at that credit rating level.
A portion of the proceeds were used to pay off borrowing under TLLP's revolving credit facility with the remainder paid to Tesoro for the Long Beach logistics assets.
In October Tesoro Logistics executed a secondary equity offering selling over 4.2 million units in an oversubscribed offering netting the company more than $170 million.
We continue to expect the sale of the Anacortes Washington rail unloading facility to Tesoro Logistics to occur in the fourth quarter.
And finally in August we announced the acquisition of BP's integrated Southern California refining and marketing business which when combined with Tesoro's Southern California system creates a world-scale refining complex with a highly integrated marketing and logistics system.
We expect the transaction to generate annual recurring synergies of about $250 million driven by improvements in yields reduced manufacturing and distribution costs enhanced utilization of extensive logistics assets and reduced stationary source air emissions; all of this for an attractive purchase price resulting in immediate earnings accretion and significant value creation to Tesoro's shareholders.
The solid operating results and success on multiple strategic fronts allowed us to generate significant cash flow and further strengthen our balance sheet during the quarter.
As an offset to the new Tesoro Logistics steps during the quarter we redeemed $299 million of Tesoro's senior notes that were otherwise due November 1 this year.
We also took advantage of attractive debt markets during the quarter by refinancing $925 million of outstanding debt extending maturities by an average of 4 years and reducing average interest expense by more than a full percentage point or about $16 million of cash interest savings annually.
In all we reduced debt by more than $100 million in the quarter and with strong EBITDA and retained earnings growth reduced our total debt to about 25% of total capitalization.
Debt net of cash at the end of the third quarter was just 4% of total capitalization.
And finally showing our confidence in the sustainability of the improvements we are driving in the business we raised our quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.15 per share.
The increased dividend and the $500 million share repurchase program we announced last quarter combined with our capital investment plans demonstrates our commitment to a balanced approach and returning value to our shareholders.
Now turning to results for the quarter.
Product inventory below the 5-year average supported stronger crack spreads on the West Coast resulting in a Tesoro Index of over $16 per barrel up more than $3 from a year ago.
The company's realized gross margin per barrel however was down slightly year-over-year driven primarily by 2 things.
The first was over $115 million in benefits we recognized on long-haul foreign crude oil barrels in the third quarter of last year attributable to the widening differential between WTI and Brent.
As a reminder this was driven by our decision in the past to index these barrels to WTI.
Earlier this year we altered our derivatives program to use Brent as the primary index to better align the values of our long-haul crude oil barrels to product prices.
The second item was a lower realized gross margin in our California region.
Over the past few years we've captured on average over $4 per barrel of gross margin in excess of the index in the California region.
In the third quarter however that capture rate in excess of the index fell to almost 0.
We attribute this unusually low result to a few things in the quarter.
First we identified elevated levels of organic chlorides in the domestic supply at our Martinez refinery which had been delivered via a major regional pipeline starting in mid-December.
This pipeline typically supplies around 25% of the refinery's feedstock supply.
The off-spec crude oil caused us to lose nearly 10 000 barrels per day of refinery crude rents for the month of September and negatively impacted our overall feedstock cost as we replaced those barrels with higher-priced prompt foreign crude oil purchases.
The impact from this off-spec crude oil combined with other yield-reducing refinery maintenance activities in California resulted in lost gross margin of approximately $40 million for the quarter.
And while the affected pipeline remains out of service until what is expected to be late in the fourth quarter we've optimized our feedstock purchases to compensate for the extended downtime and don't expect it to have a material impact on our margin capture in the fourth quarter.
Further impacting California gross margin capture during the quarter were lower marketing margins and adverse inventory timing impacts which are typical in a rising crude oil price environment.
Our current expectation for fourth quarter for California gross margin performance is more in line with our average historical performance.
Refinery throughput rates during the quarter averaged 626 000 barrels per day and direct manufacturing costs average $4.42 per barrel.
Our retail segment reported $18 million in operating income with 18% higher fuel sales volume year-over-year.
Retail marketing margins were down sequentially which is typical in a rising crude oil price environment.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were down about 1% relative to last year.
Capital spending for the third quarter was $133 million.
Turnaround spending was $11 million.
We currently anticipate our 2012 capital spending plan to be about $590 million.
This capital spending plan is lower than prior guidance by $80 million.
About a 1/3 of the $80 million reduction is attributable to a decision we made to delay capital spending in Hawaii pending the sale of that business.
The remainder is simply a shift in timing.
We continue to expect about $260 million in turnaround spending for 2012.
As we look forward we remain cautiously optimistic about U.S.
refining market conditions.
Independent of the favorable market conditions we are driving significant value from our existing asset base.
We are encouraged by the benefits to date resulting from the successful execution of our strategic plan.
We look forward to realizing the significant value from the remaining projects in addition to the value created from the transformational BP acquisition.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the fourth quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night third quarter net income was $273 million or $1.92 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we reported an adjusted net income of $292 million or $2.05 per diluted share.
Special items that were excluded from the quarterly results include after tax $17 million in debt redemption charges primarily premiums and unamortized issuance costs associated with the prior 2015 and 2017 senior notes and a $2 million after-tax charge related to the liquidation of an accounts receivable balance with MF Global.
That compares to net income in the third quarter last year of $345 million or $2.39 per diluted share.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $49 million before $9 million in corporate depreciation and $64 million in noncash stock-based compensation accruals primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
This exceeded our prior guidance due primarily to costs associated with the BP transaction and an incentive-based compensation accrual made during the quarter.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $1.4 billion a slight build for the quarter.
The gain reflects $612 million of EBITDA offset by cash interest and tax payments of $189 million capital and turnaround spending of $144 million net debt reduction and costs associated with our debt refinancing of $163 million and a $90 million deposit for the BP transaction.
The proceeds from the sale of the Long Beach logistics assets to TLLP are reflected in the net debt reduction.
We remained undrawn on the corporate and TLLP revolvers with additional revolving credit capacity of over $775 million and $300 million respectively.
We ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of 25% down 3 percentage points from the end of the second quarter this year and net debt of just 4%.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter is seasonally a weak demand period with PADD V gasoline demand typically falling about 4% relative to the third quarter.
Crack spreads quarter-to-date however are up from last quarter and the fourth quarter last year on planned and unplanned refinery maintenance in the region.
In the Mid-Continent gasoline and diesel cracks remained strong driven by a continued feedstock cost advantage.
So far in the fourth quarter the average discount of WTI to Brent remains above $20 per barrel up sequentially and year-over-year.
I'll close with guidance for the fourth quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day: 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest; 65 to 75 in the Mid-Pacific; 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent; and 255 000 to 265 000 barrels per day in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the fourth quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $3.90 in the Pacific Northwest; $3.70 in the Mid-Pacific; $3.85 in the Mid-Continent; and $5.85 per barrel in the California region.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $100 million.
Additional third quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $42 million and interest expense before interest income of $33 million.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date results.
Despite a significant turnaround schedule this year we've delivered solid operating results and completed 2 of our 5 large capital refinery projects both on time and on budget with the third expected to be completed this month.
More recently we've made progress on the BP transaction integration and financing plan.
We remain confident in our ability to close this transaction by mid-next year creating a high-quality world-scale refining complex that provides opportunities to achieve economies of scale reduce costs improve the environment and benefit consumers while improving Tesoro's competitive profile.
With that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of quick ones on California.
Over the course of the quarter I guess the terms of the sale and purchase agreement were made public Greg and you made some comments about your preparedness or your commitment rather to dispose of Wilmington if there were any federal -- FTC issues.
Can you give us an update as to what you're seeing in terms of your discussions with the authorities in particular in light of the spike in gasoline prices that seem to get folks a bit more agitated during the course of the quarter? And I've got a follow-up please.
The process is working really kind of on schedule Doug.
We received a second request as expected at the latter part of September and both ourselves and BP are responding and working with the FTC on that requested information which will take several weeks to respond to.
But at this point in time everything is really progressing just as we had anticipated before we entered into the transaction.
The second part of your question on the disruptions in the California market during the month with the refinery problems in that -- the FTC process goes back and looks over time what's going on there and we don't anticipate any problems with that.
Research Division</strong> Well Greg as it relates to the Wilmington disposal how does that impact the synergy assumptions that you gave us on the last call? We fully expect to be able to go through and complete the transaction as we've laid it out.
And if something were to change we'll adjust accordingly.
But it's premature to make any of those type of comments.
Research Division</strong> So you don't really expect to have to sell Wilmington.
Not when we entered the transaction no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up is really just a quick one.
Any incremental efforts to bring Bakken crude down to the West Coast? And I'll leave it at that.
As a company we are actively looking.
I mean we have been very focused to identify ways to improve our crude oil supply costs across everywhere we do business and yes we are looking at doing that.
Research Division</strong> Can you give any specifics on timing Greg? Today we're taking a few thousand barrels a day into the California region until -- it takes some time to get the logistical infrastructure set up to do that.
But over the last little bit we have been taking Bakken crude oil into our California system but not a significant amount.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what the state process is for approval of the BP Carson City deal.
Typically Jeff the state process runs in conjunction with the federal process and that's kind of how we approach things.
They work pretty collaboratively during that process.
And at this stage they're just running concurrently with no -- nothing really deviating from what we expected to happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly on the rail you mentioned 40 000 barrels a day expected to go Bakken to Anacortes in the fourth quarter.
At what point do you expect to get up to the full 50 000? Let me let Dan kind of talk to you about what's going on with the Anacortes crude oil supply.
Thanks Greg.
Yes Jeff as Greg mentioned and you repeated we expect to get up to 40 000 barrels a day for the fourth quarter.
The limitation is not the rail off-loading facilities working great.
We're very pleased with it.
The rail fleet movements are going well.
The rail restriction is the learning process on actual delivery and rail restrictions on the tracks.
We expect to overcome the majority of those issues in the first and second quarters of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Kessler Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups to the FTC and then also the Bakken rail question.
On the FTC is it possible to get some color at this point as to whether or not the FTC appears to be looking at the deal as a California market dynamic or a total West Coast dynamic as I think that's kind of important to the transaction as to which way they lean on that? And then obviously early but at this point any possibility to say where you expect litigation to ensue following these rounds? And then I've got a question on the Bakken as well.
Yes in response to both your questions Robert on the processes I mean there's -- we can't comment on that.
We don't know.
We know we provide the information and work with the FTC and Attorney General of the State of California.
But in answer both of your questions it's not within our control to respond to those questions.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
On the Bakken deliveries to Anacortes given that the crude oil was just showing up there I think you said in September -- I imagine the volumes on average for 3Q were fairly limited but can I just confirm what the 3Q delivered volumes were on average? Yes we haven't disclosed those numbers.
And I guess what we can best say is we're quite pleased with the delivery and the startup and ramp-up in the fourth quarter will be 40 000 a day.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there any guidance on how much the Bakken delivery and displacement of ANS would've contributed to earnings in the third quarter? Yes we haven't disclosed those numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So one more follow-up here FTC related.
I mean can you generally outline your position or what gives you the confidence that market concentration risks don't pose a risk to the deal as the FTC is -- has objected before -- 2 prior times to market concentration deals in California? Like can you kind of help us understand what your offsetting position is to the agency? Yes.
I mean as you would expect when you make a decision to enter into an transaction like this you evaluate what the question you just asked.
And based upon the expert outside advice we have both from legal and economic analysis standpoint we are confident that the way we evaluated the levels to comply with the FTC that we're in a very good position to do that.
They have to run their process how they do it and we respond to their request and that's up to extent of what we can say right now.
Research Division</strong> And was the inclusion of the provision to propose the sale of Wilmington then that was presumably at the insistence of BP and I guess you just-- it was your opinion that you wouldn't have to exercise you wouldn't have to do that.
Is that fair? We are very confident that we will be able to complete the transaction as we originally described it.
Research Division</strong> Crystal clear.
One other small follow-up.
Can you discuss how many shares you guys acquired in the quarter from the buyback? During the third quarter we did not execute our share repurchase program.
We focused on doing all of our debt activity that I described in the press release.
And we will -- it is our intention to begin the share buyback program now that the quarters ended.
Research Division</strong> And is that -- so are you restricted from buying or you just chose not to yet? No.
We chose not to during the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And is the buyback more an opportunistic plan at some price below which you believe is fair or is it kind of more volume-executed? It's -- our intent will be just to execute it as we plan to over time but it is somewhat more opportunistic.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It seems like my question is going to be around costs.
But I mean presumably you will continue even if you were to dispose Wilmington to get some of the synergies such as the access to the VLCC dock for the Tesoro system.
Can you give us some color on that? I think at this point in time we are very focused on executing the transaction exactly like we laid it out.
We were very confident that we'll be able to do that.
And we -- all of our plans are to execute as a combined facility just like we've laid it out.
And it's just -- that's the best we can say at this point in time.
I think we're -- we made the decision as well as BP to do the transaction confident that we would get approval.
And that's where we stand.
Research Division</strong> Okay then 2 questions on capture rates.
If I look at the Pacific Northwest obviously in Q2 I think those in timing differences on crude which kind of boosted the capture rate relative to the benchmark margins and those unwound in 3Q so it was kind of I think $17 was less than you did in Q2.
Is Q3 like a good base to use going forward or are there any other fundings that depressed Q3 in the Northwest? Let me ask Dan to comment on your question.
Q3 is actually fairly typical.
The only production-type issue that had any bearing on it was reduced rates in Alaska associated with reactor replacement that we had mentioned in the second quarter call.
But from a capture rate perspective I think Q3 is pretty typical.
Research Division</strong> And while I'm on capture rates I think you're going to run from your guidance pretty hard in California through the fourth quarter if -- sometimes when the industry runs hard the whole units that the capture rate is somewhat lower.
Is that a fair reflection of what you expect for Q4? Or give us some color there.
We expect the fourth quarter capture rates in California to be typical of what we've seen historically.
I don't know that I'd characterized running full as an industry as a capture rate impact.
I think it's more a matter of what our index capability is versus what the index actually is relative to what we can do in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And a final one maybe just an update on Hawaii.
Let me comment on that.
The Hawaii process like we've talked previously is really kind of progressing on schedule.
We received final bids as we expected during the latter part of September.
And so we are working through that process with the final bidders as we speak.
So at this stage we are basically on our schedule.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a question on -- follow-up on capture rates.
Some of your peers on the product side have talked about discrepancies between the posted price and what you realize with the branded segments.
I'll just ask for 4Q because obviously the posted price has -- took off a little bit in the wake of some outages in October.
So I was wondering if you could just comment on that and if that was a factor in 3Q at all? Sure.
Let me take a shot at that.
I'm assuming you're referring to the product market? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
So we had a significant rising market in the fourth quarter and in a rising market marketing -- the marketing segment typically has a lower margin because it can't keep up with that pace.
And we expect to recover that in the falling price market and we're seeing some of that in the fourth quarter now although it's too early to call.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And with respect to sort of filling volume requirements with third party purchases were there any incidents of maybe having to buy product at inflated spot prices and moving it through the branded segment at a discount that might have cut into the margin a little bit? During the quarter we've met all of our commitments to all of our customers and we bought in the market like we would normally buy to meet those commitments so at market prices so nothing unusual.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A number of quick questions.
The first one is I want to follow on with the earlier question.
Greg in the third quarter did we see a substantial squeeze in the wholesale margin? And I suppose that when you report your refining margin that's including the spot and the wholesale margin right? So we saw the squeeze certainly in the retail side of the business and we report that separately.
The wholesale side of the business saw some disruption not as significant and that's reported in the manufacturing segment.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So but that -- the wholesale margin squeeze or that the lower wholesale margin is not meaningful impact in your third quarter result? Not as significant an impact as we saw between street price and rack price.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
On the -- Greg can you give us a rough number -- what is the Mandan expansion contribution in the third quarter or that should we assume Mandan unit profit and Salt Lake is roughly the same so we can just take your Mid-Con unit EBITDA? Yes it's about the same Paul.
That's a good assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Scott can you give me some balance sheet data? What is your working capital at the end of the third quarter? And also do you have Tesoro Logistics working capital and their long-term debt? Yes Paul I can give you the working capital.
It was about $1.6 billion -- $1.662 billion including cash or $297 million excluding cash.
I don't have working capital for TLLP.
Long-term debt at TLLP would be the $350 million of new notes that we issued.
Research Division</strong> If possible just hopefully a simple request in the future when you report it is it also possible that you also include the TLLP balance sheet data in your press release? That would be helpful.
On -- I know that for the unit train when you initially come out Greg you have a base case economic of $35 million to $40 million a year so that translates into about -- that's based on 30 000 barrel per day so that translates into about $3.20 to $3.65 per barrel.
If we look at to date I mean I'm not asking you to make any projection just looking at today the market condition what's that unit margin has been? This is Dan.
Let me take a shot.
If we want to look at today specifically as an example TI Brent -- and I might be a day out it was in the $23 range.
Bakken Clearbrook relative to TI was actually negative so you're probably talking close to $25 of total margin.
If we look at it from ANS it was maybe -- it's even better.
The total spread for Bakken to ANS was close to $20 a barrel.
We've indicated that our rail costs are in that $8 to $9 range so you've got something like $12 a barrel plus the $3 to $5 a barrel of refining value so somewhere in that $15 to $17 per barrel today.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that will be about $12 higher than what you originally expected in other words if you're looking at today's market? That's right.
That's correct Paul versus what we originally said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the pipeline outage.
Greg is that Tesoro pipeline? Sorry that I may have missed you already said it so if you did I apologize.
It's not a Tesoro pipeline though.
It's another company's pipeline in California that delivers the crude oil into the really the Martinez refining complex there.
It's not ours.
Research Division</strong> So I mean do you have any claim on them that for the -- delivering the off-spec crude to you? I'm sorry could you say that question...
Research Division</strong> Can you file a law suit and ask for compensation? It's too premature to comment on that.
Our focus has been on resolving the issues with the crude quality and getting alternative crudes in there.
So we'll work our way through that as we go through the next few months here Paul.
Research Division</strong> A final one for me is on the dividend.
Just first of all thank you for raising the dividend shortly after you initiate.
But trying to understand that or if I'm looking at your earning power with all the project that coming on stream over the next couple of years that look like even if we get back into kind of market condition of 2009 in the consideration of the structural changes in the crude complex you may be able to earn more than $5 per share.
And if that's the case is there anything that make management will be hesitant that you can support or and you can issue a regular dividend in the $1.50 to $2 per share kind of range? And how does the board -- what kind of criteria and timing we should think about when board consider when or how much that -- to raise the regular dividend? Yes it's our intention to go back and look at our dividend on some frequency and keep our dividend competitive and reflect how the forward look of the company is.
So we will continue to look at it as we go forward Paul.
Research Division</strong> I would just say that a lot of your long-term shareholder would really appreciate a much more aggressive and near-term dividend increase policy.
I think just to restate one thing.
I mean I mentioned it in the script here that we talked about but our focus is to find high returning capital projects to strengthen our competitive position and at the same time find ways to return cash to shareholders to deliver significant value.
That's where we're focused on.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Greg you clearly outlined that you expect the deal of Carson should go through as you originally planned.
There was as stated [indiscernible] in FTC.
I was just wondering regarding the FTC versus the state and thinking that to Shell's Bakersfield which if I remember they intended to shut and essentially were prevented from shutting by the state.
Could you talk about the capability of the state for example to require you to continue running the FTC or any other -- I guess I'm just vague on exactly what the -- I think we're clear on the FTC's mandates and some of its methodology too.
I'm not just so clear on exactly the state can and can't require you to do.
Could you talk a little bit about that? I think the main point to reemphasize Paul is what typically happens is the state works in concert with the FTC during the process that we're going through which will take several months like we've already mentioned there.
And we fully expect to work with both the Attorney General's Office as well as the FTC to provide all the information to do the evaluation and expect them to look at it on a very comparable basis.
So we don't expect any difference from the state versus the FTC.
Research Division</strong> Is that right? Okay.
Because I would've thought -- thinking back to Bakersfield I don't know what really happened there but as far as I remember there wouldn't have been an FTC issue around the requirement for Shell not to shut the refinery? Yes.
I think we'd -- someone would have to go back in and look at what the decisions were that the state made to drive that request like you stated earlier so we don't expect to be in the same position.
Research Division</strong> You don't.
Why not? Because we expect to run the 2 processes and comply with both the FTC and the Attorney General as I stated earlier.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's -- I think I understand.
The -- just going back to the capture now Greg.
You highlighted clearly why there were some issues regarding your capture? Could you just talk about -- and I think you've kind of addressed this but I think it bear just repeating which of those impacts would you say are very much one-off that would only occur in this quarter? And which would you say were at risk potentially for example in the rapidly rising crude market of reoccurring so that we can risk your future capture if you like? Yes.
I think the primary onetime things are attributable to the supply prompts on the pipeline as well as the impact on our maintenance activity that are really onetime activity.
Any type of market activity with the marketing prices in that as you understand that will have an impact that we can't predict.
But definitely crude supply as well as the -- some of the yield impact on our maintenance activity were onetime.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I guess any changes to your crude pricing methodology would expect to be stable from here going on.
Right.
As we stated we price off at Brent and that stay -- well that will stay consistent.
That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Read Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Since a lot of the stuff's been covered on the West Coast things I guess I'll ask the question in the Mid-Con region I guess maybe more specifically North Dakota.
As we think about the changes and the differentials of Bakken instead of a discount to WTI more of a premium.
What advantages do you have on your refinery in terms of its location relative to Clearbrook and in terms of pricing advantages maybe transportation as well? Sure.
I'll take that one.
This is Dan.
We have obviously a cost advantage to deliver the crude into Mandan simply because we sit on top of the reservoir and we through TLLP operate the pipeline systems and the gathering systems.
So our costs are advantaged.
The actual pricing differentials between what we buy at the fuel transport and what we -- what you see in the pricing centers for Clearbrook vary from month to month and they can be volatile.
I don't know that we would forecast that which is the first part of your question that we would forecast that you'd expect to see Bakken price at a premium to WTI though.
I think we think that that's going to actually be flat to improved.
It's just there's some volatility as to takeaway capacity comes in lumps with rail offload -- or rail loading and the production growth is relatively stable.
So the blockiness us of the offtake and the relative linearity of the production profile growth is leading some volatility.
And that last factor that drives that volatility is what's occurring in Canada at the same time.
If you look at the Canadian sweet barrels they have a pricing relationships to TI very highly correlated to Bakken because we're servicing the same market with the same transportation limitations.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe another way to kind of think about this.
If you're exploring the ability to move Bakken area crude I assume when you talked about moving light sweet barrels to California and if that's not accurate please help me but what would be versus the say $8 to $9 per barrel to rail that you have established for Anacortes? I mean ground floor today trying to rail to Anacortes is it still $8 to $9 or would somebody be facing significantly higher costs? I mean for example we hear about kind of a $15 costs thereabouts to rail to the East Coast.
I'm just wondering to California would it be that kind of cost today or is there some other advantage in going to California versus East Coast? From a rail transportation cost the most advantaged market to go to is Anacortes Northern U.S.
at about $8 to $9 range.
We view Northern California to be kind of in that $10 range; Southern California to be somewhat close to the Gulf Coast which is in the $12 range; and the East Coast to be the least advantaged which should be in the $15 range.
And all those should be viewed as not absolute but relative.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from the line of Chi Chow Macquarie Capital.
Dan I got an operational question.
It looks like recently there is reported fire in the Golden Eagle coker.
Can you give us the status update there? You have me on a disadvantage.
I'm not aware of a fire report in the...
Really? Okay.
Yes.
We did have a seal a small fire that occurred in Golden Eagle about a week ago that had little to no impact to operations maybe that's what you're referring to.
It could be.
It reported a -- related to the coker maybe it was a compressor or something like that.
Yes yes that would be right.
But you've got no operational issues right now at the plant? None that have a material impact.
Okay.
On your projects Greg could you remind us on the Salt Lake City project? What comes on Phase 1 versus Phase 2? Let me let Dan comment on that Chi.
Sure.
Phase 1 includes all of the modifications to the SEC the fluidized catalytic cracking unit as well as the crude unit.
So those are kind of the big pieces that occur in that including crude offloading and those sorts of things.
And that gives us the capability to ramp up almost 1/2 of the increase of the waxy crudes.
The second phase of the project is the back end of the FCC the vapor recovery or what some people call the gas recovery facilities.
So that comes on in Phase 2.
As we've mentioned before Phase 1 completes in the beginning part of the second quarter next year and Phase 2 occurs late in 2014.
Okay.
And then one final higher-level question.
Some of your competitors are actively complaining about the regulatory environment in California and voicing concerns about the long-term outlook on doing business there yet you are looking to expand your presence in the state.
Can you talk about your views on the long-term outlook for your business in California? I mean when we acknowledged that the environment in California is a demanding environment to do business in period.
It's demanding and requires that we believe that the steps that we have taken regarding our decision to combine the Wilmington refinery with the BP refinery puts us in a very strong position and really I tried to comment on that during my comments at the beginning of this conversation and that the demanding environment in California is never going to change.
That's just the way that it is.
But how we position our assets in that in the marketplace will allow us to be successful in that environment.
That's why we're doing what we're doing.
What about at Golden Eagle? Are you kind of comfortable with your position there? And do you have any sort of advantages at that plant that'll make things a little bit more palpable more going forward? Golden Eagle is a -- I mean it's a strong refinery a strong contributor already with its advantaged crude position and upgrading capability of the refinery.
And over time there things that we're looking at will continue to further enhance the capability of that refinery but it is a strong performing asset.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session as well as today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 4 2012 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Julianne and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Louie Rubiola Director Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Julianne.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings.
Joining me today are: Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details in a moment.
2012 was an outstanding year for Tesoro.
With the market providing an attractive margin opportunity we maintained high refinery utilization rates reduced our operating costs and delivered on our EBITDA improvement targets despite a heavy turnaround schedule.
We invested free cash flow into our high-return capital program completing 3 of 5 announced major refinery projects.
These projects deliver sustainable improvements in the business by broadening our exposure to advantaged crude oil and driving improvements in product yields.
We drove significant growth in Tesoro Logistics with the execution of our organic growth plan and 3 asset purchases for Tesoro.
We increased refining and marketing integration with the addition of over 225 retail stations.
The end result of all of this was the highest adjusted earnings and strongest balance sheet in the company's history.
In addition to executing our internal growth plan we announced the acquisition of the Chevron Northwest Products System by Tesoro Logistics and the transformational acquisition of BP's Southern California refining and marketing business.
These acquisitions are expected to add over $0.5 billion of recurring EBITDA plus at least $250 million of expected annual synergies.
And finally we began returning cash to shareholders with an $0.80 per share annual dividend and share repurchases of $140 million to date under our existing $500 million stock buyback program.
I'll come back and talk more about our full year results in just a minute.
But first let me comment on the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we reported refinery utilization of 89% the highest fourth quarter utilization since 2007.
This allowed us to capture relatively strong crack spreads and advantaged discounts on crude oil supply.
This was our first full quarter delivering unit trains of cost and quality advantaged Bakken crude oil to our Anacortes Washington refinery.
Volumes during the quarter averaged around 40 000 barrels per day.
The facility is operating well and the project economic are in line with the expectations we've shared with you.
We closed the sale of the $60 million Anacortes rail and loading facility to Tesoro Logistics for $180 million during the fourth quarter marking the third asset sale to TLLP post-IPO.
We brought the new vacuum tower online at our Wilmington California refinery in the quarter marking the delivery of the third of 5 announced major refinery projects.
Manufacturing costs in the quarter averaged $4.70 per barrel up $0.28 reflecting higher natural gas prices and lower refinery throughput relative to the third quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes for the quarter were up 20% year-over-year driven by the addition of the SUPERVALU and Thrifty sites earlier in the year.
Retail marketing margins were up during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
The combined result is reflected in our adjusted fourth quarter earnings of $1.34 per diluted share and our year-end cash balance of over $1.6 billion.
The strong fourth quarter was a fitting end to a very successful year.
When we met with you in December of 2011 we committed to drive between $150 million and $200 million in year-over-year EBITDA growth for 2012.
I'm excited to report to you today that we exceeded our goal and can see the improvement in our results.
Full year 2012 EBITDA excluding the Hawaii impairment was up more than $560 million over 2011.
The additional EBITDA driven by the delivery of our initiative and an improved margin environment was partially offset by the impacts of heavy maintenance schedule we had planned for the year.
The strong performance resulted in significant free cash flow that allows to fund our high-return capital program repurchase $299 million in outstanding debt during the year reinitiate and later grow our dividend and begin executing our share buyback program with $100 million completed in the fourth quarter.
Recognizing the continued value opportunity in our shares we've bought an additional $40 million so far in the first quarter of this year bringing total purchases to $140 million or nearly 30% of the outstanding buyback program.
As we look ahead to this year in line with what we've shared with you in December we have an aggressive plan for a focus on executing our high-return capital program faithfully completing another heavy turnaround schedule strengthening our West Coast business with the integration of the Carson acquisition and growing our logistics business with the integration of the Chevron Northwest Products System at TLLP.
We have an ambitious 2-year growth plan for Tesoro Logistics that we expect will drive annual EBITDA to over $260 million.
That's a nearly fivefold increase in EBITDA since the IPO less than 2 years ago.
And as market value for Tesoro Logistics continues to grow that growth accrues to Tesoro at an accelerated pace as the general partnership distributions move into the high splits.
Our capital spending plans for 2013 remain at $530 million with turnaround spending of $310 million.
We have 2 exciting major capital projects that are on schedule and expected to come online in the second quarter of this year.
The first is a 5 000 barrel per day expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery which will allow us to meet the growing demand of this high-valued product in the region.
We expect this project to generate over $10 million per year in additional EBITDA on an investment of about $35 million.
The second project is the first phase of the Salt Lake City Conversion Project.
When fully complete this project will allow us to double the throughput volume of cost-advantaged waxy crude oil improve light product yield and expand throughput capacity at the refinery.
We expect this project to generate about $100 million per year in additional EBITDA on an investment of about $180 million.
We expect to realize about half the benefits of this project upon completion of the first phase in the second quarter.
The end result of this plan we believe will drive over $200 million of additional EBITDA this year excluding Carson as the value of our high-return capital program continues to materialize in our reported results.
This success will allow us to execute a cash strategy focused on investing for growth and returning cash to shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the first quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night our fourth quarter net income was $27 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we're reporting an adjusted net income of $190 million or $1.34 per diluted share.
Special items that were excluded from the quarterly results include after-tax of $154 million in charges related primarily to the decision to cease refining operations at the Hawaii refinery and $9 million related to transaction costs of our 2 announced acquisitions and other legal matters.
That compares to an adjusted net loss in the fourth quarter last year of $120 million or $0.87 per diluted share.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $43 million before $9 million in corporate depreciation $7 million in noncash stock-based compensation accruals and $10 million pretax of transaction costs that I just mentioned.
Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were $176 million and turnaround spending was $60 million.
We ended the fourth quarter with a cash balance of just over $1.6 billion a build of over $270 million from the third quarter.
The gain reflects $433 million of EBITDA before the Hawaii charges offset by cash interest and tax payments of $185 million and capital and turnaround spending of $236 million.
Working capital during the quarter provided a source of cash of about $250 million.
We remained undrawn on the corporate and TLLP revolvers with additional revolving credit capacity of about $1.22 billion and $500 million respectively.
We ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of 25% or 23% excluding Tesoro Logistics' capitalization.
This is in line with the end of the third quarter.
And for the first time in our history as a refining and marketing company our debt balance net of cash was negative the result of our successful delevering program and strong operating cash flows over the past 2 years.
Before I turn to the first quarter outlook I'd like to take a minute to discuss our interim financing facility we have in place for our upcoming acquisitions.
For the Tesoro side we recently amended our corporate revolver to provide for an expansion of total capacity from $1.85 billion to $3 billion and improved pricing and structural flexibility for the additional secured borrowings.
In addition last week we closed on a 3-year $500 million term loan credit facility achieving a record-setting low yield.
Both of these facilities become effective upon the close of the Carson transaction and both offer extremely attractive borrowing rates and repayment flexibility.
On the Tesoro Logistics side we completed 2 highly successful equity offerings over the past 4 months raising net proceeds of over $560 million and recently completed the expansion of its revolver from $300 million to $500 million.
TLLP used about $170 million of that amount to fund the acquisition of the Anacortes rail facility in the fourth quarter with the remainder expected to be used for the upcoming acquisition of the Chevron Northwest Products System.
As I just mentioned TLLP remains undrawn on its separate revolver with $500 million of available credit capacity.
These efforts along with the refinancing of $925 million of outstanding debt we executed in the third quarter of 2012 have put us in a position of significant financial strength and flexibility ahead of these transactions.
Turning to the first quarter guidance.
This is typically a weak gasoline demand period both nationally and in PADD V with demand typically falling 1% to 4% sequentially from the already weak fourth quarter.
Crack spreads quarter-to-date are down relative to the fourth quarter of last year.
However with the onset of seasonal refinery maintenance we have seen margins strengthen significantly more recently.
In the Mid-Continent crack spreads remained relatively strong driven by a continued feedstock cost advantage.
So far in the first quarter the average discount of WTI to Brent remains about $18 per barrel up relative to the first quarter of 2012.
I'll close with guidance for the first quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be at thousands of barrels per day: 125 to 135 in the Pacific Northwest; 65 to 75 in the Mid-Pacific 120 to 130 in the Mid-Con; and 255 to 265 in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the first quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $4.85 in the Pacific Northwest; $3.35 in the Mid-Pacific; $3.45 in the Mid-Con; and $6.25 in the California region.
Throughput and product yields in California and the Pacific Northwest will be impacted by planned turnaround activity at our Wilmington and Anacortes refineries.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $98 million.
Additional first quarter guidance items includes estimated corporate expense including depreciation of $52 million and interest expense before interest income of $29 million.
Our corporate expense guidance includes impact of additional transaction costs.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our 2012 results and look forward to delivering our key strategic initiatives in 2013 including our significant organic growth plan the integration of the transformational Carson acquisition the integration of the Chevron Northwest Products System acquisition and the completion of another heavy turnaround schedule.
Execution is definitely again our top priority.
We are confident in our ability to deliver demonstrated performance from our talented and engaged employees.
And with that Dan Scott and I will now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Evan Calio Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just give us an update kind of where you are on the Carson FTC review process.
Have you substantially complied with the second information request? And are you still on track to hear something by midyear? I guess I'm looking for any incremental change since you updated us in December.
And I have a second question.
Yes.
It's a good question.
In January the request for information from the second request were completed and we are in the final stages of processing that with the FTC and continue to work with the FTC to complete the transaction.
And so at this point in time we don't see anything that would change from our schedule that we've said all along.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe I can switch to a question on advantaged runs to the West Coast.
I mean is Tesoro in any of these discussions with either the 2 potential pipeline conversion projects into California and maybe particularly the Southern Trails conversion? And how much Permian assuming it's light and available could you run at Wilmington and Carson? I think you mentioned before it would be less at Wilmington and much of the capacity for Carson.
But if you could kind of refresh me here I'd appreciate it.
Evan we are actively looking at numerous opportunities to supply the West Coast with crude oil from Canada throughout the central portion of the United States.
And so we have that work in progress and we'll continue to develop that as we proceed.
I think we've said in the past that we are taking a small amount about 5 000 barrels a day of Bakken crude oil to our refinery in Martinez California.
And like you said at the analyst meeting we mentioned that we have a good appetite for the crudes from the Mid-Continent at our Golden Eagle refinery in Martinez as well as we will have at the future Carson refinery when that happens.
Limited opportunity at the Wilmington refinery.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- and maybe one last follow-up if I could.
Is there any -- I know you'd mentioned that you're looking and you're studying a lot of different rail solution potentials into the West Coast maybe even rail to waterborne into California.
Any kind of time line on when we may hear the results of your analysis? I mean we're as anxious to do that as your question is that we will -- we are actively looking at that and we will -- once we get the things developed they are somewhere in more advanced stages we'll be glad to share that with you.
But they're just a lot of activity out there.
There's a lot of opportunity.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Kessler; Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
One is just a follow-up to that last discussion on the rail options.
I know it's early days.
But can I ask for confirmation? As you said I think at the Analyst Day that you will not use the Anacortes that rail unloading facility as the source for the rail to marine option and it would be another site that you would have to I guess presumably acquire a partner on in order to move the rail to ships.
Is that still accurate? Absolutely.
The advantage to take the Bakken crude oil to Anacortes is extremely attractive.
And we are in the process of ramping up from the 40 000 a day that we said to the 50 000 barrels a day post our turnaround at Anacortes.
And so we will pursue other opportunities.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give me some more color on how you see the Canadian heavy oil by rail option unfolding? It would clearly be -- it seemed to be advantageous to your portfolio to move some distressed price Albertan heavy oil down to California presumably on one of these rail to marine options as well.
What are the limiting factors as you see it in that space? How do you in particular get on the rail system in Canada? Is there any kind of limit on the actual lines as opposed to just building the loading and unloading facilities? Yes.
Robert there are -- this is one of the many opportunities that we're looking at.
So it's -- for commercial reasons it's just something that we're not going to talk about.
But there are numerous opportunities that we're pursuing.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally for me as someone who's busy displacing ANS with Bakken crude I was curious on your thoughts of possibility of ANS crude ultimately getting backed out into the international market that is to it export from the U.S.
as one of the allowed exemptions on the general export ban? Is that going to happen in your view? And if so when? I think it's just dependent on what happens with the amount of crude that ultimately makes it to the West Coast.
I don't -- I'm not privy to what other companies are trying to do with the amount of volumes.
We only know what we're trying to do.
So it could have an impact on ANS crude though with the potential movement of crudes to the West Coast.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> How much ANS do you run in your portfolio today post the backing out of the Anacortes volumes? Today after what with the changes that we've made we run limited amounts of ANS crude in our portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> You're -- for the fourth quarter it looked like your throughput in California was a little lower than you had anticipated at the time of the third quarter conference call.
I was hoping you could share a little bit of information about the California throughputs the impact of the Wilmington Yield Improvement implementation talk a little bit about how that yield improvement project is operating so far.
Be glad to.
Let me let Dan address your question Jeff.
Yes.
Good question Jeff.
The throughput impact on the West Coast was related really to 2 things.
One was the Wilmington refinery downtime that we had planned to tie in the vacuum tower extended a little bit longer than we had thought coupled with some unplanned work in Martinez.
Specific to the Wilmington vacuum tower installation that did come online.
The current view of the yield impact to that is quite favorable.
Although we've not completed the full post audit on that until the crude slate and runs are all stabilized.
That will take us probably another quarter.
But so far it looks quite good.
Research Division</strong> So I see from your guidance for California that you've got expectations for a return to very healthy throughput and the Wilmington project should further enhance margin capture on top of some of the improvements you've been able to achieve over the last couple of years.
Am I looking at that correctly? You are looking at that correctly.
However in the first quarter we do have some conversion unit downtime and the turnaround planned for Wilmington.
So while the crude rate is going to be full we won't see the full gross margin capture that we would expect to see once we complete the turnaround activity.
That will be a full view second quarter impact.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple on the cost down to California Greg if you don't mind.
You guys have talked about -- obviously there's been a lot of questions about this.
But you've talked previously about maybe barging from the upper West Coast down into California.
I'm just wondering if you can give us an update as to how you're thinking about that and what the cost of that might look like.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Yes.
Our view of being able to source crude oil up into the Pacific Northwest and then move it by water down to Southern California is equally attractive to taking it by rail all the way into California.
Research Division</strong> In terms of viability is that something that you're actively looking on in terms of maybe expanding the rail facility in Anacortes Greg? Or is that too far down the line to talk about? At this stage Doug we're not actively looking to expand Anacortes.
We are pursuing other opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My follow-up is really on Hawaii.
Obviously you've announced your intentions there.
But I gather the state senator has voiced some concerns.
Can you just give us a quick update as to how you see that processes? Do you see any obstacles to being able to get that done as per plan? Or you're just expecting  reaffirmation of your expectations for the working capital plays [ph]? Right.
First we fully intend to deliver the working capital that we stated before in the range of $300 million to $350 million in 2013.
That will absolutely happen.
Second we've worked very very closely with all the government agencies in that in the state of Hawaii and also their federal representatives in Washington D.C.
with our plans once we announced our intention to cease refinery operations in April.
And that is progressing as we still see.
And because we can meet all of the supply commitments in that we see that moving along without any disruptions.
So we are really on track to deliver what we said we would do.
I guess maybe just to make sure one other point is clear is that we are still intending to try to mark all of those assets in an active sales process on the assets in Hawaii.
Research Division</strong> If maybe I could have just one final one just on the Bakken wellhead pricing.
Clearly there's been a lot of moving parts there relative to Clearbrook.
I don't know if you or Scott will want to take this one.
But can you just give us an idea how sustainable or how common a fix you think is now in place in terms of rail capacity? And I'll leave it at that.
Yes it's a good question Doug.
Let me ask Dan to comment on that specific question.
Yes.
So I'm probably going to comment more about where our long-term view of Bakken pricing is and stay a little bit away from a Clearbrook pricing because it's becoming less of a material piece of the pie.
The majority of the volume that's exporting out of the state is now coming out of rail movement.
So our long-term view remains consistent that Bakken will price at a coastal crude alternative less transportation.
So if that's the Gulf Coast then it's LLS less the $14 to $15 a barrel of transportation cost.
If that's the East Coast it's Brent less something probably close to $15 to $17.
And if it goes West it will eventually be ANS asphalt type crude so less $12 to $14.
Between now and that eventual time there will be volatility in the market that's pretty difficult to predict.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A number of questions hopefully quick.
Dan in Wilmington and Anacortes can you tell us at what conversion unit is going to be in turnaround and for how long and how that's going to impact the product yield? Wilmington's downtime is primarily FCC-related and will be back online we expect towards the middle of this month.
And Anacortes is also likely to be a -- Anacortes is also FCC and will occur towards the end of the quarter.
As far as yields I think the best way to assess that is take a look at our historical turnaround periods from a capture rate impact.
Research Division</strong> In Anacortes when does it going to start the turnaround for the FCC? Are you saying that it's going to come back by the end of the quarter or it's going to start at the end of the quarter? On Wilmington or Anacortes? Research Division</strong> You said Wilmington will come back by mid-February.
So Anacortes you're saying that it will come back by the end of the quarter.
Or does it actually start at the end of the quarter? It will begin in the -- at towards the end of the quarter and we'll provide guidance on second quarter impacts at a later date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So yes Anacortes is mainly a second quarter event then? A little bit both Paul and kind of split between the 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the -- Greg or Dan I believe that currently you have a nice base.
You're getting the Canadian sweet crude at Trans Mountain and then barge it down into Anacortes.
Do you have the option -- are you going to start shifting the Canadian sweet -- to ship the Canadian heavy crude at Trans Mountain and then barge it down into California? And if that is a possibility given the rail-wide WCS discount is that profitable for you or more profitable for you to do it at this point? Let me just clarify one thing Paul.
The Trans Mountain Pipeline kind of has 2 legs 1 that goes into the Vancouver area and then 1 that goes right actually into the refineries in the Pacific Northwest.
So our supply today that you mentioned is pipeline supplied right into the refinery that way.
So that's one thing.
Secondly the pipeline has been in proration for some period of time due to limitations on the space and then the demand.
And so there it's virtually impossible to ship any more crude than we have today.
And our advantages...
Research Division</strong> No Greg I'm not saying that ship more crude.
I'm just saying that we're pacing one type of crude we have the WCS -- given that the WCS discount is much wider can that be done? Or do you have the option? You can do it or that the shipment is -- that the contract is really just for the light sweet? Yes.
Paul you need to protect your space that you have in the pipeline so you can get a rate of supply of crude all the time.
So that's not something that we would pursue at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay.
On the -- maybe then for Scott.
Scott do you have some kind of an EBITDA earning contribution from the unit train operation in the fourth quarter as well as in the Mandan expansion given that both of them have the full quarter of their operation? Let me take that one.
I'll do Anacortes because we publicly disclosed some of the information on it already.
Anacortes' Bakken contribution is probably -- probably we expect to be around 40 000 barrels per day.
It was close $11 a barrel versus our alternatives or $40 million.
Some of that didn't show up clean clearly because of the Canadian light sweet WTI differential that shrunk on a quarter-on-quarter basis by about $2.50 for a similar volume as the Bakken.
So if you stack those 2 together you still have about $8.50 a barrel advantage for the combined Canadian light sweet Bakken on a kind of a quarter-by-quarter basis third to fourth.
Then if you spread that across the full 160 000 barrels of volume that we put through the Pacific Northwest you get a crude advantage of about $2 a barrel which compares to the $1 improvement that you'll see in our disclosed information.
The difference between the remainder is inventory and yield impacts.
Research Division</strong> Great.
How about Mandan? The Mandan impact I think you can detract just based by looking at the disclosure.
It's 100% Bakken crude.
It ran full Paul so it ran 70 000 barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> So Dan should we assume that the Salt Lake City profitability is similar to Mandan? So whatever you report in Mid-Con we can just use that as a proxy? Pretty good.
Yes that's a good way to look at it.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then Scott do you have working capital at the end of the year? And also on the Logistics side what's the working capital? Paul total working capital at the end of the year was $1.755 billion including cash.
It was $119 million excluding cash.
And we don't really have working capital at the Logistics level.
And we haven't really reported that yet either so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final question Greg.
On the dividend payout it's great that you guys raised it the second time in such short period.
But I want to understand that when management or the board looking at the payout is there any kind of formal target in terms of the payout ratio at the bottom of the cycle of earning power or missed [ph] cycle whatever you define it? I'm trying to understand it.
I mean maybe we are being too optimistic.
But it looks like you could easily even at the bottom of the cycle to support a $2 plus dividend.
So I'm trying to understand how it's being considered within the company? Well as you're aware Paul we just started paying a dividend in August of 2012.
And it's been our objective to have a competitive dividend that looks at yield and payout ratios.
And we will manage our dividend over time as we progress through time to maintain that approach.
So that's kind of where we stand right now.
Research Division</strong> So do you have a formal payout ratio target internally? Or that's still you say a work in progress at this point? No.
Like I said we look to be very competitive with our peer companies.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
First off with the exception of California pretty good operating cost management in the fourth quarter.
Can you kind of walk us through how that outperformance came about? And is that something that's sustainable? Were there some one-time issue in the fourth quarter or things that didn't happen in the fourth quarter that maybe will recur at other quarters? Just curious how that happened and if we should think about outperformance going forward as something you can achieve.
Yes let me take that Roger.
I think our performance in the fourth quarter was a bit better than we planned obviously in the Mid-Continent.
We wouldn't extrapolate that for future quarters' performance.
The guidance -- Louie has provided I believe guidance on operating costs and they're consistent with our expectations going forward.
California's impact was related really to a couple of factors.
Nat gas price came in a little bit higher than we thought when we provided guidance.
And then we had the extended downtime for the L.A.
back tower tie-in and some reliability work in Martinez.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just since a lot of the other companies that have come through have talked about it can you give us an idea of what you're doing on the export front? Maybe just sort of anything to do about expanding capacity to export whether from -- wherever along the West Coast or anything else that you've got that you can update us on there.
Roger if you look at the export activity off of the West Coast it continues to stay pretty consistent where it has somewhere around total between gasoline and diesel of about 120 000 barrels a day.
And we are -- as we've said in the past we actively participate in that market because we find good value to ship to certain customers that we have on the west coast of South America.
It looks sustainable from the levels that we've seen in the past.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no expansion plans or anything there? We think that's pretty much in that 120 000 barrel a day range because it's just the market that we're attracting on the west coast of South America and Mexico.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question kind of following up on Paul's question there about the dividend and share repo.
Can you give us an idea of maybe how you think about within the overall return in capital to shareholders how you evaluate the dividend versus the share repo? Obviously you've got the pending acquisition here.
Is it going to have some impact on the balance sheet? But also by year end the closure of Hawaii should free up working capital.
I'm just wondering how should we think about maybe paying down the term loan versus either a higher dividend or continued share repos just maybe how all those moving parts come together.
Yes.
Let me see if I can kind of succinctly answer your question.
First it's our intent to continue to find opportunities that allow us to invest in the business to increase our earnings capability like we've been doing.
So that is a priority.
The second as I responded to Paul Cheng's question is that it's our intention to maintain a competitive dividend based on the 2 factors that I mentioned.
Third we will continue to look on our forward look about our excess cash and continue to provide ways to return excess cash to shareholders as we progress through it.
The fourth thing is right now we are preparing -- we've done a lot of work to prepare to go into the transactions that we're doing right now.
And our intention was to go into those from a position of financial strength and to come out of them from a position of financial strength.
And so our plans to pay back term loans and all that that you had talked has been incorporated in there as we see the opportunity to get back into a similar total debt to total capitalization position shortly after we complete the transactions.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A [indiscernible] question.
I think you've kind of been talking about it in bits and pieces.
But I was wondering with regards to Hawaii that's effectively cleaned out of the portfolio I guess in terms of financial costs and ongoing costs.
And then to broaden the idea of where this actually goes from here I guess obviously we're waiting for the FTC yay or nay.
Once we've cleaned out Hawaii assuming you're going to confirm it's more or less out of the portfolio from a financial standpoint and you're assuming that you've got California in how will you then look at the portfolio going forward in terms of how you feel about whether the challenge that the people seem to be strongly implying is simply to try and get cheaper and cheaper crudes or more and more cheap crude into your coastal refineries? Or is there some other shape to the portfolio that you feel that you'd like to pursue? Yes.
I think first regarding the portfolio the steps that we've taken that you mentioned around Hawaii and the opportunity in California to really create what we said is a world-class facility in Southern California are significant improvements to our overall portfolio.
So we're excited about those 2 steps and -- but we can't underestimate the demands on our company to deliver the synergies because we talked about $0.25 billion of synergies.
And so there is a lot of work that we will be pursuing with that combined facility in Southern California.
But taken all that in its entirety then we then like our portfolio.
We like how we're positioned.
And to touch upon what you said we are very very actively looking at ways to improve our crude supply cost.
We've been doing that for 2 years and we are -- we just -- that's a high priority of the company.
And we see a lot of actually exciting opportunities that we're trying to develop and deliver with a sense of urgency to capture the value there.
The final thing to your question Paul is that we will continue to look in our geographic area at opportunities that add value to the company and would create value for our shareholders.
And if we see those opportunities that would fit in that offers some of the same attributes that our current portfolio does we would like to pursue those.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess what you're saying is that more -- I mean everyone would love it I guess more Mid-Con refining at the right price.
I assume you're not interested in East Coast Gulf Coast or international.
I think we've been pretty clear that our focus is absolutely in our geographic footprint that the markets that you've said we consider out of our focus area.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just changing to a different subject.
There was a cap and trade auction in California in November that was actually deemed a success.
Were you involved in that? Can you talk a bit about your perspective on that? Yes.
I think there's been a subsequent auction to that also or it's coming up.
I don't recall exactly but we -- yes we did participate in the auction and we believe position ourselves extremely well to comply with our requirements for the cap and trade.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The second auction is actually on February 19.
Yes I knew it was coming up.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a bit more about that? Because I guess we're a bit unfamiliar with -- you've had to I guess buy allowances for -- to cover your emissions? Yes.
The requirements in the early stages of cap and trade for our system aren't that great like we've said all along.
And so we've gone out over a period of time and inquired -- acquired emissions to meet the requirements to comply.
But it's not -- we're not talking anything of material consequence to the company.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess that's clear from your results insofar as there's nothing financially that would affect your costs.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Is there going to be? I mean I'm still unclear because it seems to be the feeling as -- what with the California economy down and everything else this may never turn out to be the cost as some people fear? I'm sorry I couldn't -- I lost you.
Research Division</strong> It seems that with the downturn in the California economy and lower emissions anyway this may never become a risk [ph] cost.
My question is is the cost going to potentially get a lot worse? Or how do you see the outlook for that cap and trade? Yes.
2 things.
One I mean the California economy is actually starting to turn around a little bit and we'll see what happens as far as gasoline demand as the improvements in the economy.
But I think we've been pretty clear over time that as we look at the requirements to comply with stationary source emissions that they're not that significant.
They do grow over time as you get out to the end of this decade but it's something that we felt was quite manageable as far as when you look at the requirements of AB32.
The second thing is and probably something that's very important one of the really big drivers that helps us capture value with the combining our Wilmington refinery with the Carson refinery is that we reduce CO2 emissions as well as really NOx and SOx substantially and that's a big benefit.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was wondering how long it was going to be before you mention that Greg.
So that's the 30% reduction that you expect to the CO2 emissions as a result of the combination right? 30% reductions in what our Wilmington refinery produces today which is about 0.5 million tons of CO2 a year.
Our next question comes from the line of Chi Chow Macquarie Capital.
So just to clarify on the turnarounds Dan.
So Anacortes is it just a cat cracker turnaround coming up at the end of quarter? Or is it more broader than that? And secondarily how does that impact your Bakken crude deliveries into the plant? Primarily a cat cracker turnaround does not directly impact the Bakken deliveries into the plant.
Obviously if we've got decreased runs which we've got from PNW that it will run a bit fewer barrels of Bakken.
Okay.
But you assume that the plan is still to be around 50 000 a day going forward here on the rail deliveries.
Post turnaround.
Yes post turnaround.
Okay great.
Greg so you mentioned that you're bringing down about 5 000 barrels a day of Bakken into Golden Eagle.
Are there limitations on ramping that up on the terminal capacity? And are you moving that on I guess just third-party manifest trail? Yes.
It's moved manifest on the railroads single manifest to get the crude into the refinery.
And it's just that we're in the initial stages of working all the logistical system in that to deliver it directly into the refinery as well as we pursue other options there Chi.
Is there an upside capacity on the rail that you can actually bring these crudes in right now? Well that's what we're working.
Those are just the numerous options that we're working for all of West Coast supply.
Okay great.
And then another question just Hawaii.
Is there an opportunity to supply that market once the refinery is shut from your West Coast plants.
Or are there also limitations based on either economics or Jones Act limitations? I think if you look at Hawaii you will see that probably the opportunity to supply Hawaii comes from Asia when you look at values and where you can move products on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan Citi.
Research Division</strong> Faisel from Citi.
On the -- I got the answer to the first question on the BP Carson City exchange.
What was the last time you guys had a request from the FTC on the transaction? Well as part of that process Faisel is it's ongoing.
It's ongoing continually.
So that said the way the process works there are involvement between ourselves and the FTC continually.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just on the financing that you have in place right now.
I mean I guess if things kind of stay where they're at in terms of the Brent WTI spread and even some of these ANS discounts and heavy light spreads I mean in theory could you be able to -- would you be able to pay for the transaction in all cash by the end of the year? Would even need the financing that you put in place for the transaction? No it's -- our plans are to provide the flexibility that Scott alluded to when he talked earlier that we have the flexibility to finance the transaction the way we intend to and then as if conditions prevail like you mentioned then they would just allow us to pay back the financing faster.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you guys have railed more Bakken into the Anacortes and the West Coast it looks like ANS has started to trade at a wider discount to Brent.
I'm wondering if you think that there's a direct correlation there between the amount of Bakken being moved into the West Coast and where that discount has been headed.
Well we think that there certainly should be an impact -- this is Dan Faisel.
But I think there's also an impact associated with the [indiscernible] Chevron downtime.
So I think it's a combination of those 2 factors there.
Long term obviously as more Mid-Con crudes hit the West Coast then ANS pricing comes back to a more historic discount to the sweet alternatives.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then you guys talked about how you backed out a lot of -- how much ANS have you backed out of your refineries to date versus last year? Well I think the simplest way to think through that is if you assume the 40 000 barrels a day of Bakken that we brought into the Anacortes less -- I don't know maybe 5 000 [ph] or a bit more of reductions in Canadian light coming down.
That net number backed out either Alaska North Slope or foreign crudes into Anacortes.
Whether it's ANS or foreign depends on the pricing of the crude during a given month.
Research Division</strong> And then were you guys chartering your own Jones Act tankers to move that crude from Alaska to your West Coast system? I -- normally yes.
Research Division</strong> So I take it as you back out Bakken you can employ those Jones Act tankers to do something different? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
Just one last question I mean just going back to the dividend.
As you guys ramp up your cash flows from TLLP the GP and LP distributions is the right way to think about the dividend is that as you -- as those distributions grow then in theory your dividends would grow along with that distributable cash flow from the MLP? Faisel we just -- it's a consolidated business.
And so with the cash flow back into the company is just part of the overall pool of how we manage.
And then our focus on the dividend for Tesoro is what I stated earlier regarding the payout ratio and the yields.
Sir you have no further questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] You have no questions at this time.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2013 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sonia and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Sonia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on this call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
Despite significant turnaround activity during the quarter and $47 million of non-cash stock-based compensation accruals we delivered a solid operating performance and strong first quarter earnings excluding special items of $0.73 per diluted share.
In addition to this solid operating performance we have made significant progress on several strategic fronts.
We recently announced a joint venture with Savage to own and operate a 120 000-barrel per day unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at the Port of Vancouver in Washington allowing us to drive additional feedstock cost advantage throughout our West Coast refining system.
In April we ceased refining crude oil at our Hawaii refinery and began to make adjustments to accommodate product imports terminalling and distribution at the facility.
We are nearing the completion of the project to expand the distillate desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery allowing us to yield more high-valued diesel fuel.
And similarly we expect to execute the first phase of the Salt Lake City Conversion Project this quarter expanding our capability to run cost-advantaged waxy crude oil and driving product yield improvements.
Finally during the first quarter we continue to execute our share buyback program with $100 million in purchases.
So far in the second quarter we purchased an additional $45 million taking total purchases to nearly 50% of the $500 million outstanding program.
Now turning to results for the quarter.
Improved light product crack spreads and continued feedstock cost advantage provided an attractive margin environment in the quarter.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the first quarter averaged over $12 per barrel up more than $2 per barrel from a year ago while the company's realized gross margin was $13.68 per barrel or 110% of the Tesoro Index.
Despite significant turnaround activity especially with our upgrading units refinery throughput rates during the quarter averaged 579 000 barrels per day or 86% utilization up 50 000 barrels per day relative to the first quarter last year.
The year-over-year increase in throughput is attributable to the expanded capacity at our Mandan refinery and a high degree of crude oil distillation unit turnaround activity in our West Coast operations last year.
Beyond reporting strong operational reliability this was the first full quarter recognizing the benefits of 3 large capital refinery projects we put in service last year including the 10 000-barrel per day expansion at our Mandan refinery the unit train unloading facility at our Anacortes refinery and the new vacuum tower at our Wilmington refinery.
The additional earnings from these high return capital projects which broaden our exposure to advantaged crude oil and drive improvements in product yields are in line with our expectations and are reflected in our first quarter results.
Manufacturing costs in the first quarter averaged $4.86 per barrel up slightly quarter-over-quarter impacted by higher energy prices and planned turnaround activity.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up 18% year-over-year reflecting the Albertson's Express and Thrifty retail stations we brought into the system last year.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up about 1% and retail marketing margins were about $0.08 per gallon -- up about $0.08 per gallon relative to the same period last year.
Capital spending for the first quarter was $119 million.
Turnaround spending was $132 million.
We expect consolidated 2013 capital spending of $560 million including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
This is up from our prior guidance driven primarily by the Port of Vancouver project and some additional logistics projects at Tesoro Logistics.
We continue to expect about $310 million in turnaround spending for 2013.
As we shared with you in December of last year this is a peak turnaround spending year for the company and we look forward to lower planned spending and improve product yields for the next few years.
As we look forward we remain optimistic about U.S.
refining market conditions.
Independent of favorable market conditions we are driving significant value from our existing asset base and optimizing our portfolio of assets.
We are very pleased with the benefits to date resulting from the successful execution of our strategic plan.
Before I pass the call to Scott I'd like to take a minute and discuss our latest strategic announcement the equally owned joint venture with Savage to develop and operate a new unit train unloading and marine loading facility at the Port of Vancouver Washington.
This project builds on the recent success at our Anacortes refinery where we were the first refiner to bring Bakken crude oil to the region via unit train.
This project is equally as exciting because the Port of Vancouver is the most direct and cost-effective coastal outlet for Bakken crude oil from North Dakota with a rail tariff lower than to Anacortes.
This facility with initial capacity of 120 000 barrels a day will be designed with near-term expansion capability up to 280 000 barrels per day.
The joint venture agreement grants Tesoro the right to the first 60 000 barrels per day of throughput capacity which we expect will come online in 2014 subject to permitting import approval.
We've ordered additional rail cars as part of this strategy and expect to take delivery beginning mid next year.
In an effort to allow us to optimize around crude oil quality these additional cars will be coiled and insulated.
We expect to utilize our current U.S -- flag marine capabilities as well as supplemental shipping capacity.
The combination of the unit train origination and ultimate delivery via marine provides an unmatched degree of cost-advantaged crude oil sourcing flexibility and makes this a powerful and exciting opportunity for Tesoro.
Finally our ownership in this facility will be an attractive potential asset for Tesoro Logistics once completed.
We look forward to realizing the significant value from our remaining capital projects in addition to the value created from the transformational Carson acquisition.
Regarding Carson.
We've made significant progress on the integration plan have our financing plans in place and are nearing the end of the regulatory review process.
We remain very confident in our ability to close this transaction creating a high-quality worldscale refining complex that provides opportunities to achieve economies of scale reduce costs improve the environment and benefits consumers while improving Tesoro's competitive profile.
Our team is aligned on a clear and focused strategy to deliver additional value to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the second quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night first quarter net income was $93 million or $0.67 per diluted share.
After special items we reported an adjusted net income of $102 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include $9 million after-tax related to transaction costs of the Carson refinery and Chevron Northwest Products System acquisitions.
That compares to net income in the first quarter last year of $56 million or $0.39 per diluted share.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $42 million before $5 million in corporate depreciation $47 million in noncash stock-based compensation accruals and $14 million pre-tax in transaction costs.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $119 million.
Turnaround spending was $132 million.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $2 billion a build of over $300 million for the quarter.
The gain reflects EBITDA of $297 million and net proceeds from the January TLLP equity offering of $392 million offset by capital and turnaround spending of $251 million shareholder distribution to share buybacks of $177 million and cash and interest taxes of $41 million.
Working capital and other items provided a source of cash of about $113 million.
We remained undrawn on the corporate and TLLP revolvers with additional revolving credit capacity of over $1 billion and $0.5 billion respectively.
During the quarter we put in place interim financing facilities for our upcoming acquisitions.
For the Carson acquisition we amended our corporate revolver expanding total capacity from $1.85 billion to $3 billion.
And we closed on a 3-year $500 million term loan credit facility.
Both of these facilities become effective just before the close of the Carson transaction and both offer extremely attractive borrowing rates and repayment flexibility.
We also upsized the Tesoro Logistics revolving credit facility from $300 million to $500 million as a ready funding alternative for the sale of the first tranche of Carson Logistics assets to Tesoro Logistics LP.
With cash on hand low leverage the expanded corporate and logistics revolvers and the term loan commitments we are well positioned to fund the closing of the Carson acquisition.
During the quarter we also raised net proceeds of $392 million through a very successful follow-on equity offering through Tesoro Logistics.
We expect to use the proceeds of that equity offering to fund the acquisition of the Chevron Northwest Products System.
Turning to the second quarter.
The second quarter typically sees seasonal increases in demand for gasoline and distillates in PADD V.
Quarter-over-quarter increases of greater than 4% are typical for gasoline and increases of over 8% are typical for diesel.
Reductions in supply from planned and unplanned refinery maintenance on the West Coast have supported crack spreads quarter to date.
In the Mid-Con gasoline and diesel crack spreads remain strong.
And so far in the second quarter the average discount of WTI to Brent remains about $10 per barrel down over $4 per barrel relative to the second quarter last year.
I'll close with guidance for second quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day: 135 000 to 145 000 in the Pacific Northwest; 15 000 to 25 000 barrels a day in the Mid-Pacific; 100 000 to 110 000 barrels per day in the Mid-Con; and 265 000 to 275 000 barrels per day in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $4.85 in the Pacific Northwest; $9 in the Mid-Pacific; $4.30 in the Mid-Con; and $6.05 in the California region.
We expect throughput and product yields in the Pacific Northwest and Mid-Continent to be negatively impacted by planned turnaround activity.
Our guidance for Hawaii reflects refining operations for the month of April only.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $93 million.
Additional second quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $50 million and interest expense before interest income of $31 million.
Our corporate expense guidance includes the impact of additional transaction costs.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
With the bulk of the West Coast turnaround activity behind us we look forward to executing the remaining turnaround schedule for 2013 in the near term.
We also look forward to delivering the 2 large capital refining projects in the Mid-Continent during the second quarter.
We are encouraged with our continued success in driving improvements in the business and delivering on the plan we laid out for our investors.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Chi Chow Macquarie capital.
So Greg on the Savage JV facility can you talk about your decision to go with the combined rail and marine system rather than direct rail into the California refineries? Yes Chi.
Two simple explanations.
One the cost to deliver by the way that we plan to is more than competitive with taking crude oil directly into California by rail.
And secondly the time to the market to be able to do that is considerably different.
Time to market quicker with marine? Considerably quicker.
By the way we're doing it through Vancouver versus going directly into California.
Okay great.
Can you remind us how many Jones Act vessels you operate in the capacity? We have adequate capacity Chi to handle the additional volume that we plan to move from Vancouver down there as part of our total operations as we change the way we ship product -- or crude excuse me.
Okay.
And then is the plan on the heated rail cars to target moving raw bitumen rather than dilbit into Vancouver and then ship from there? The way that we've designed our crude supply to the West Coast gives us considerable flexibility not only with the qualities of crude but also where we take that crude oil ultimately.
Now with Anacortes and Vancouver we have that flexibility to meet the needs of our refining system.
Okay.
And then final question I guess related to Carson.
Greg you mentioned in your remarks and you described it actually in your special items.
But can you talk about what sort of integration activities you're undertaking right now at Carson prior to transaction close? I'll ask Dan to speak about that because that's been -- Dan's been leading that effort now for 9 months.
Yes Chi the primary activities now are focused on change in control the days directly in front of it and the days directly following it ensuring that our systems and processes will be effective.
High level synergy work's already been completed as consistent with what we've previously announced.
We get to do a great deal more detailed look on data of change in control when the anticompetitive issues are no longer an issue.
Okay.
So is this really integrating with Wilmington with your existing operations down there? Integration with Wilmington but not just the refining assets.
This is marketing and logistics.
So it's a business much broader than just a grouping of assets.
And all of our back office Chi I mean we need to integrate with all of our accounting systems and everything.
It's a comprehensive integration.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Scott can you give me a number of balance sheet item first the working capital for Tesoro and TLLP? And also what is the TLLP debt and cash position? Working capital for corp is $1.9 billion including cash.
And we don't -- I don't have working capital for TLLP at this point.
Research Division</strong> The $1.9 billion is that excluding TLLP already? No this is on a consolidated basis.
Research Division</strong> That's on consolidated? Okay.
Do you have TLLP what is the debt and cash position? I don't have that with me Paul.
We'll release TLLP results on Monday.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Greg on the Carson process can you tell us when did FTC wrap up the last interview [ph]? So Paul we are basically at the end of the regulatory review process.
We have provided all the information requested by the FTC and the California Attorney General.
The process as you know is a confidential process.
But everything now is in the hands of the FTC and the California Attorney General.
But like I said before we remain very very confident that we'll close the transaction by the end of this quarter without any material changes to what we proposed in the original transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And for the -- you talked about the 3 major projects that they are performing in line with your expectation.
Can you give us an idea how much is the contribution in the first quarter from those 3 projects? And I guess that specifically is for the unit train operation? If you look back Paul and look at our prior guidance that we've given around all of the projects and we've tried to share based upon our market assumptions of the EBITDA associated with those projects all of those projects are in line with exactly what we provided with prior guidance.
Research Division</strong> And in the unit train are you now running at 50? Or you're still at 40? The unit train -- our Anacortes refinery was one of our refineries on turnaround which came up at the end of April here.
And so we will ramp up to 50 now 50 000 barrels a day now that we are completing the turnaround.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that refinery is just finishing the turnaround right now? Just completed within the last couple of weeks there.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Other than Anacortes in terms of the turnaround for the second quarter is there any other turnaround we should be aware? We mentioned earlier we have both the Salt Lake City refinery and some turnaround activity at Mandan both planned turnaround and also associated with the projects that are going on at both of those refineries.
Research Division</strong> Greg will you be able to share with us which unit is going to be in turnaround? Well the Salt Lake City refinery is a comprehensive turnaround Paul at the refinery.
Partly because as we've talked about before the project to be able to process more waxy crude oil to improve yields at the refinery and increase capacity that's -- we're in the first phase of that project as we said in the past.
And at Mandan the maintenance work will be associated with the changes that we're making to the desulfurization unit to process more diesel fuel.
Research Division</strong> And Anacortes the turnaround was just at the cracker right? No the Anacortes turnaround was a full plant turnaround this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have Scott do you have a rough number what was the opportunity cost in the first quarter due to the downtime? The way we look at it Paul during the first quarter the turnaround activity met our plan during the first quarter.
It will be greater than that what we expect in the second quarter with the turnaround activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final one.
Any rough estimate how much do you pay for the RIN in the first quarter? Our position on RINs as we stated in the past we run a very integrated system.
We're approaching 80% integration between refining and marketing.
We also have some exports off the West Coast of the United States.
And we carried RINs over from 2012 into 2013.
So our position from a RIN standpoint for 2013 is not a material impact on the company.
The next question comes from the line of Doug Terreson ISI.
Research Division</strong> Greg one of the key messages from the analyst meeting was about the intention to strengthen the West Coast business through some targeted investment and cost productivity plans.
And on this point performance continues to be pretty strong in California both in terms of the capture rate you're receiving on the benchmark margin and also operating cost.
So I wanted to see if you could provide us an update on the key initiatives out in California? And how they're delivering thus far in relation to expectations because it seems like they are performing very well? And whether or not there are any other factors that were worthy of mention as it relates to recent performance in California for the company? Yes it's a good question.
Let me ask Dan to comment on that.
All right.
So California was a focused effort to find initially $1 per barrel of sustainable operating cost improvement.
We reported in December that we achieved close to 70% of that target on an energy price normalized basis.
The real focus areas we're driven towards the reliability of the processing units which allowed us to put in more throughput as well as decrease fixed costs associated with reliability issues.
The early focus was in the maintenance process area and that's -- it's still bearing strong fruit.
The improvement journey continues.
And I may just add one additional comment to what Dan just shared Doug.
And that is the real focus we have -- additional focus I should say right now is to be able to take crude oil to the West Coast and strengthen our cost advantage from the way we process crude oil there.
So we're very excited about what we'll be able to do through Vancouver with that access there particularly due to the size of the facility.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a bit more on the rail-ship terminal that you've talked about.
When you said it was quicker to -- it was quicker essentially the way that you've optimized it did you mean to build or actually to ship the oil? To build permit and ship.
Research Division</strong> All of the above? Everything.
There's a facility -- the facility basically exists in Vancouver with the rail facilities it's a very highly efficient easy-access facility that's well established.
And we'll invest to put tanks and some piping to get to the marine facilities but all of the infrastructure -- there's a substantial amount of infrastructure there.
So once we permit we'll get access to the market far quicker than we could ever permit to go a facility like this in California.
You couldn't build a facility to handle 280 000 barrels a day of crude oil in California.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And what is the -- you said 60 a day initially.
When and if you expand where would you go to? Well let me clarify.
The facility the physical capability of the facility when it starts up will be 120 000 barrels a day.
Tesoro has committed for the first 60 000 barrels a day of that 120 000 to start with.
And then the second phase of the project could take it up to 280 000 barrels a day relatively quickly because of the way the infrastructure exists today.
Research Division</strong> My question was if it was expanded how much would you be taking? We haven't determined that yet.
I think we will work through and complete the Carson acquisition and look at our crude supply once that's done.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And if we had a guesstimated cost $9 of rail and $4 of shipping to your California refineries would that be reasonable in the initial phase? And then I guess that would potentially go down in an expansion phase? I think one of the things that we can share is that we've been very public about our cost to -- full cost to Anacortes is about $9.75 a barrel.
The cost to Vancouver is less than $9.75.
And there is $2 to $3 to $4 of shipping cost so that gets your total cost to California.
Research Division</strong> And the -- I was just wondering in general is there a working capital -- I'm not a big one for working questions but here you go is there a working capital implication of the way you're shifting your crude delivery? I mean is there more oil in the systems if you like as a function of the way you're moving? That's a good question Paul.
We actually looked at that in pretty good detail regarding Anacortes.
And there wasn't a significant change when we looked at the amount of oil we committed by rail versus as we said in the past the shipping ANS from -- into Anacortes the working capital impact was not -- there was no impact really.
Research Division</strong> Right Greg.
And then a high-level question.
Your CapEx kind of keeps going up and behind that you've expressed a potential desire to grow the company through acquisitions.
Is there some sort of settling in point or limit that you can give us for where your spending will max out if you like? Yes.
The increase in CapEx that we just talked about today is attributable to our Logistics business.
And we continue to focus on North Dakota because of the -- I mean we have the pipeline system that's kind of a backbone of the gathering and movement of crude up there that can supply the rail loading facilities.
And we're trying to strengthen our position there by building tanks and changing pipeline flows in that to meet the demands of the market there.
And that's been driving some of the increase in capital.
And we will continue to pursue that.
But other than that I think the guidance that we gave at the end of last year in our analyst meeting regarding future capital showed our capital based upon what we knew at the time dropping off particularly income capital.
However we'll continue to look for opportunities to deliver high-value capital projects and we'll look at that when we take over the operations of Carson here.
That's something we'll have to understand the capital opportunities then may be above and beyond what we have said so far.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just finally very quickly on Carson.
You said approval by the end of this quarter? Right.
We expect to close by the end of this quarter.
The next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess you're going to have to answer questions on Carson.
Just I don't know if you can comment.
I mean as you think about the competitive landscape against which the Carson acquisition should be compared it feels like if you look at it against the West Coast it shouldn't be that increased in terms of competition.
But maybe if you just look at California then there might be a different view.
I mean any view as to how you think the FTC should look at that? I mean we've provided Ed everything to respond to the request from the FTC everything that they've asked and they have that information.
So we believe that the -- as we have from the very beginning that the acquisition of the Carson assets by Tesoro actually allows the cost of supply to go down for consumers in the market as well as the other benefits that we've talked about from an environmental standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then on -- just coming back to major projects I guess it sounds like you're going to have a pause if -- once Carson closes to then rethink about the overall scheduling and obviously doing some great stuff in logistics.
Coming back to maybe Salt Lake and thinking about more ways to get value out of black wax is that still on the agenda? Yes.
I mean we absolutely look at -- with the production profile with the waxy crude and the state of Utah with our capability to process the waxy crude at the refinery with what we're expanding to today.
And then other opportunities it is something that we are very aggressively looking at ways to capture opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Because obviously you could go to down the lubes in group 3 and that's -- the price of those products look quite attractive.
Is that under consideration? We look at it we look at everything.
And we pride ourselves on being able to look at all different possibilities.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then as you've looked at some of the synergies and done the integration are you still pretty confident on the Carson City synergies that you've laid out? Yes.
I think to reiterate what Dan mentioned earlier he's -- Dan has been leading that effort and he stated that we are very confident that those synergies are -- they're all there.
The next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The types of cars -- sorry it's a question on the Savage deal.
The type of cars that you seem to have put in place is it a priority immediately as to whether you would go for heavy or light crude? I'm kind of thinking about what refinery you might be targeting initially as part of that deal? Yes.
I mean we designed it Doug to have a lot of flexibility.
But our first priority will be to move North Dakota crudes into our system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as far as Wilmington is concerned I mean obviously it doesn't sound like you've got any concerns that you won't be allowed to hang onto Wilmington is that fair? Just to restate what I've said before that we believe that as the transaction was proposed we will be able to move forward exactly as the transaction was proposed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you help us -- I guess this is kind of building on Paul's question.
What I'm really trying to get to here is that Wilmington runs a lot of heavy crude right? Right.
Yes it does.
We've said that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I'm just trying to figure out is that really where the biggest opportunity could be here in terms of taking heavy Canadian down into Wilmington which may be a little dumb I'm thinking it could be a little bit more impressive by way of benefits than just moving light sweet that's kind of what I'm getting at.
Yes at this point in time we stated that at the Martinez refinery we could run about 50 000 barrels a day of light crude if it's priced competitively from other areas.
And as you correctly stated that Wilmington is a heavy crude processing refinery.
And the supply cost for Wilmington coming out of both California and South America continue to be attractive the differentials from South America net are attractive.
And then the big opportunity is really with what we can do around Carson once we assume operations of that refinery from a crude supply standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I just got 2 very quick ones.
In the Bakken I guess differentials have narrowed a fair bit.
And I think that kind of hurt you towards the back end of the quarter.
Can you just walk us through what you're seeing out there now? Because obviously TI-Brent is $10 but as far as we can tell Bakken is a little better than that.
Can you help us with that? Yes.
I'll let Dan respond to your question Doug.
Yes so I think the question Doug is probably how are fuel prices doing relative to what you see on the Clearbrook Trade Center.
Research Division</strong> Basically yes.
Yes.
The fuel prices are actually coming down a little bit quarter-on-quarter relative to the Trade Center Clearbrook.
And we believe -- still remain in the belief that Bakken crude at the field is going to price relative to the coals or [ph] alternative less transportation.
So when TI-Brent starts to come in or TI-LLS Bakken is going to have to move away from TI at the field level and that's what we saw in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> What do you think that number is Dan? Well we've shown $14 under LLS $15 to $16 under Brent is where we expect it to settle at now.
We'll see lumpiness month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter but that's where we think it settles at.
Research Division</strong> Is a part of that short-term move winter-related in other words production coming back after disruptions? It's possible.
I think it's just a commitment on volume that takes periods of times to stabilize as the market moves.
As we've all watched the TI-Brent movement is pretty rapid.
It takes a little bit longer to unwrap the -- to get the same movement moving in the field.
Research Division</strong> And a final one Greg or Dan I'm not sure who wants to take this one.
But going back to that synergy question.
I mean it's quite a while now since you laid out those synergies.
I'm guessing you have a fair amount of time to really have a deeper think about what that could look like.
Your confidence Greg should we read that as risks to the upside on the synergies? And I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
Let me take a shot at that.
We remain very confident in the synergies that we've mentioned.
A level of detail that we can dig into to validate those is restricted but we remain competitors with BP.
So until the transaction closes we can't lift the hood and go deep into it but we were fairly conservative in what we reported.
And we expected to deliver on it.
The next question comes from the line of Evan Calio Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a few follow-ups on the JV as well.
I mean in addition to the cost to ship that you outlined I presume there'd also be some yield uplift at least versus ANS that would lower your threshold economics? Would $1 or $2 be reasonable? That would be on the low side depending upon the refinery win at [ph].
As Greg mentioned one of the beauties of the Vancouver terminal is it gives us a choice to go to any of our refineries because they all have great marine facilities.
In the quarter we did actually take advantage to do a brief test run of Bakken actually in Alaska while Anacortes was in turnaround in the month of March.
And it actually came out with a relative refinery value probably at that time closer to the $4 to $5 a barrel advantage up in Alaska.
Down in Carson it's a little bit too early to tell but it's probably going to be at least as good as what we see in Anacortes which is close to a 16% shift oil from fuel oil into clean products.
For the first quarter that math on those prices was in the $2 to $3 barrel range.
Research Division</strong> Great that's significant.
On the new railcars I think you mentioned you are receiving some prior to the facility start up.
Is there some discrepancy? And can we be able to utilize those in some way in the interim.
Meaning that you're getting the cars prior to the 2014 start up? The railcars that we have ordered the additional railcars we've ordered will come in in 2014.
And once that we've locked in on the permitting date and everything it's kind of designed to all coincide together.
But we already have a fleet of railcars that gives us some flexibility that's associated with the Anacortes project Evan.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And is there anything more specific on the timing of the expansion? You said reasonably after that but is phase 2 to potentially 2014? Or is that really more of a 2015 project? If you determine to go that far? Yes.
It wouldn't be 2014 because of tankage requirements and that.
It would just -- we'll look as it develops we'll make the determination when the facility is expanded.
The good thing is it has the rail capability and everything in place to be able to accommodate that movement of products.
Research Division</strong> And what the -- I mean assuming that -- will we assume a tariff of $0.75? Is that -- would that be reasonable if you ultimately determine to push these assets into TLLP? Yes.
It's too premature to really come up with those numbers in that yet.
We just -- we -- our total cost like I stated earlier at Anacortes is $9.75 it's less at Vancouver to take the crude oil into Vancouver so that kind of gives you an idea on a relative basis.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And we kind of got into that.
And then would you expect any kind of knock-on effect? I mean I'm assuming it's ANS that you're pushing out that market? I mean do you see a knock-on effect of loosening up ANS pricing even though that particular crude is exportable? I think one of the things we'll have to look and see what happens is that the -- once we start moving additional crudes to the West Coast and then the impacts on all the different prices particularly as Dan just talked about the yields.
I mean the refiners are going to price the crudes based upon the refinery value.
So there is the potential to have an impact on other crudes going into the West Coast.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe lastly for me if I could.
What was the strategy to partner here versus kind of going it alone at Anacortes? And I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
Savage is a company that's been a very good service provider to Tesoro.
They already provide service to us at our Wilmington refinery our Golden Eagle refinery.
And we use Savage to provide the service for our rail unloading facility at Anacortes.
So they actually operate the rail unloading for us at Anacortes.
And the part of Vancouver was a competitive process at where Tesoro and Savage were selected as a partner to do it.
So we teamed up with Savage because of our experience dealing with them and what they can bring to the table from an operating standpoint.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But I was hoping to follow-up on your railcar order.
You mentioned in the press release additional coiled and insulated railcars.
Could you talk about how many railcars are associated with that order? And perhaps summarize your railcar orders and delivery schedule more broadly.
We prefer not to disclose exact numbers of railcars.
But a couple of things one is one of the advantages of taking particularly crude oil from North Dakota to the West Coast is a relatively short delivery time so that has an impact on the number of railcars.
You can get from North Dakota to the Pacific Northwest in 3 or 4 days and therein -- the others being is the efficiency of the facilities both at Anacortes and how Vancouver will be.
They are highly highly efficient facilities very environmentally found designed facilities.
And so that efficiency works out very very well and allows us to keep a minimal number of railcars which we design.
So our total railcar requirements for both Anacortes and the first 60 000 barrels a day of crude oil that we've committed to at Vancouver are just we designed it that way.
We don't -- we prefer not to quote exact numbers.
And we've made all the orders for the railcars.
They will be delivered from multiple suppliers during 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with regard to the U.S.-flag marine capabilities.
You said for the -- this first phase that you've got sufficient capabilities to move the crude.
But you talked about supplemental capacity in the press release.
Would that be associated with the potential for the expansion to 280 000? And would you consider building new railcars yourself or owning -- I'm sorry owning tankers yourself? Or would you look to use third parties in the event of the expansion? Everything we've done so far is that we see adequate capacity to handle the shipping requirements of what we're trying to do so far.
We would -- if we advance to the second stage and take on additional capacity then we'd have to look for additional shipping to meet our needs there.
The next question comes from the line of Roger Read Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just maybe to follow up on the comments earlier about California same-store sales.
I believe you said your fuel sales were up 1%.
Just wondering is that an indication of an improvement in the overall California market? Do you think it's due solely to your locations? Maybe just a little more clarity on that.
Are we finally seeing a turnaround in California? I'll take that one Roger the California market has actually improved and significantly relative to the rest of U.S.A.
[ph] both based upon our stats as well DOE stats which are corrected through February for imports-exports.
So I think DOE stats are now showing PADD V up through February in the neighborhood of 3%.
We're up on a same-store sales basis 1% and going into the second quarter it's looking as good or better.
So I do think we are seeing a turnaround on the West Coast relative to the rest of U.S.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what are the possibilities as you look at the rail facility to Port Vancouver for running things other than Bakken into that unit? In other words Canadian crudes or something along those lines.
Yes.
The facility in Vancouver will have the capability to handle any type of crude.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would there ever be a possibility of bringing WTI in there in terms of where the rail lines are laid out? Or is that going to be more of a Southern California thing? Yes.
I mean you just have to look at wherever the economics are.
So if there are economics to do that and you can get access to it you -- there are no limitations on that.
The beauty of coming from the northern part into Vancouver is that you have a straight shot on the rail lines with one railroad.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
I just didn't know what sort of flexibility you might have in the system in choosing that location.
The next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on Hawaii.
Will there be any ongoing costs or charges related to that asset now that it's closed going forward? Well the actual refinery is being shutdown.
And as we mentioned it will be transitioned over into a distribution facility.
And there will be costs associated with running it as a distribution facility.
LLC Research Division</strong> And will that show up -- How should we be modeling that? Should that be in the refining division and what are those costs? Or will it be -- I guess at this point you're not looking at dropping that down you're looking to sell that facility.
So I guess how should I model that going forward? Yes I would expect to see that in the refining segment still.
I don't know that you should plan in modeling any great amount of profitability there.
LLC Research Division</strong> How about cost? Or cost.
And it's in the cost guidance we've given you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just in regards to that facility.
Are you at this point actively marketing the assets or where do we stand on that? Yes we are actively marketing the assets in Hawaii still.
The next question comes from the line of Clay Rynd Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just back on rail in Anacortes.
You said post-turnaround you expect to ramp to 50 000 barrels a day.
Was the issue with ramping to the nameplate capacity more an issue at the facility? Or was it kind of a logistical issue along the railways? Well all along we were ramping up.
And I think we were in the 40s before we went to the turnaround.
But we're just managing the process to go into an extensive full plant turnaround as we said in the first part of the quarter here.
And so we'll ramp up to 50 000 barrels a day here post-turnaround.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then one more thing.
On -- you repurchased $45 million of stock in April pretty much do you kind of expect that rate to continue? Or do you expect to slowdown as you kind of get to the BP acquisition and other things? We've guided before that we continue to expect to complete the $500 million repurchase by the end of 2013.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned a number of different economics in railing crudes for the Bakken to the West Coast system.
I was wondering if you could just give us a threshold sort of spread between the Bakken and ANS including kind of the quality uplift? At what point you would sort of stop railing crude into the West Coast if the differentials sort of converged or narrowed? Well we would stop running it to the West Coast when we didn't make any money doing it I mean to be direct.
But I think maybe just to take a step back and put it into perspective the cost for Tesoro to go from Bakken to Anacortes is around $9.75 a barrel total cost.
When Vancouver is up and running it will be less than $9.75 so that's the total cost.
Secondly as Dan stated at Anacortes the value to the refinery of processing Bakken crude oil relative to ANS is $2 to $3 a barrel advantage to doing that.
And so that's additive to what we see there.
So the advantage to be able to move it there is pretty significant relative to the differentials.
We firmly believe that the level of production in the Bakken today and the growth -- projected growth in production puts a lot of supply in the market that needs to clear the market.
And the way that clears the market is to go to the refining centers -- coastal refining centers.
And that is at the end of the day over time is going to dictate what that differential is.
And so therefore as we look at it unless someone comes up with an alternative that's far more cost-effective to get it to a refiner versus rail that's going to be -- the ultimate differentials that were stated a little bit earlier are going to stay in place over time which gives us a continued advantage to move the crude oil to our West Coast system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like including the quality and transportation differentials the spread would have to collapse to something below $5 before it wouldn't make economic sense to move that crude? In that range in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned something about the obviously the quality of Bakken crude.
It's a huge yield uplift to the refiners your refiners in the West Coast.
But at what point do you think that people start pricing in the quality of the crude? Because so far it's been just a volumetric issue.
And then there was a bit of volumetric constraints.
But no one is pricing in the quality of this crude quite yet.
I mean do you think that that factor plays into the economics in the near term? Or is that just so far out it doesn't really matter right now? Maybe I'll take a shot at that.
The actual value for uplift is refinery-specific.
So I don't think it's fair to take what we see as an opportunity and extrapolate that across the West Coast.
Anacortes is a bit of a unique animal because of the fuel make.
Alaska is a completely different case and Carson has got some unique advantages.
So I guess our view is that the quality differential pricing will be a ways out.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And just on the uplift in EBITDA that you guys stated in your prepared remarks for the Salt Lake Conversion Project.
I think you did talk a little bit about your underlying assumptions for the project.
If you can just repeat them one more time what are those underlying sort of expectations again in generating that EBITDA? Sure.
It was made up of about 3 components.
Cost advantage on the waxy crude I don't believe we gave the actual contractual pieces of that because it's confidential.
The second piece is the improved yields associated with the waxy crude.
And the third piece is an improvement in the actual throughput which is a particularly a great piece.
The total value proposition was a bit north of $100 million annually based upon historic average type differentials in the Salt Lake City area.
This first phase comes on we believe towards -- or we're planning on towards end of May.
And we'll be ramping up to about 50% of the value gain until towards the end of next year when we bring on phase 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to understand I understand that the deal is confidential in terms of how the crude is priced.
But it's priced off of WTI is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then is there an implied economic on the WTI a less differential in that $100 million? Yes.
There is an improvement relative to TI that acknowledges the capital investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the Vancouver rail project what permits do you have and what permits are remaining? Well in Vancouver it's a new operation for us.
So we need to fully permit the project.
And so we're in the process of doing that.
Research Division</strong> Is it state permits? Or is it also federal permits that you need as well? It will be primarily state to my knowledge.
But this is going to be very similar to what we did in Anacortes.
It took us I think if I recall correctly close to 5 months to get those permits pulled together.
As you may be aware you're not fully and totally in self-control of that permit process but the good news is we've got a lot of folks excited with us on this journey.
So we're looking forward to getting those permits in the fourth quarter that's our target.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Just on the financial statements in the last couple of years your deferred tax benefit has been relatively small.
But with the big turnaround expenses in the CapEx this year what are your expectations for deferred tax benefit between '13? This is Scott.
You would expect them to go up a little bit but nothing material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just one last question.
On your -- on the Jones Act tankers that you guys talked about.
Do you own the tankers or do you lease your tankers? Lease.
The next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had to hop off earlier so I apologize if this was covered or asked.
But I was curious Greg when I saw there was an open season from Kinder Morgan on the pipeline from the Permian to the West Coast I guess I felt like you guys were a natural participant in that.
And then of course you subsequently announced the Savage deal.
I'm curious if you could just talk about maybe how that project would compare cost-wise? And if there's maybe a potential to also participate in that project? Yes.
One of the limitations of a pipeline project is that it takes away all your flexibility to supply your refinery because of the long-term and volumetric commitment to the pipeline which doesn't make it very attractive.
And from our standpoint I don't know if you caught this or not earlier Blake I don't know the -- how the open season will be on tariffs and that.
But we need the flexibility to have access to different crudes not just a particular crude that would come from the Permian basin up to Southern California.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay got it.
And then Greg I did catch earlier that I think you said you'd be probably exhausting the share buyback program by year-end '13.
I presume at some point here the board would contemplate extending that or coming up with a new program? We'll continue as you know it's our strategy to look to return cash to shareholders over time.
So as we go -- we're going through a pretty active period here now when we close on the Carson acquisition we close on the Chevron project pipeline acquisition and start doing all that.
And we'll relook -- take a forward look at that down the road here when it's appropriate.
There are no further questions.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2013 Tesoro Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alex and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to hand the call over to Louie Rubiola the Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Go ahead please sir.
Thank you Alex.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our second quarter 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While they will not be -- while we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Additionally I'd like to note that going forward the company intends to use Twitter in conjunction with other Regulation FD-compliant disclosure vehicles such as press releases 8-Ks and our Investor Relations website as part of a broader investor and stakeholder communication strategy.
Please sign up to follow us on twitter.com/tesorocorp.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment but I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
Despite significant turnaround activity during the quarter we delivered a solid operating performance and strong second quarter earnings of $1.56 per diluted share excluding discontinued Hawaii operations and special items.
We closed the transformational acquisition of the Southern California refining marketing and logistics business.
We announced an agreement to sell our Hawaii business to a subsidiary of Par Petroleum and expect to close the sale in September.
We announced a joint venture with Savage to own and operate an initial 120 000-barrel-per-day unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at the Port of Vancouver Washington allowing us to drive additional feedstock cost advantage throughout our West Coast refining system.
We also announced an exciting branding agreement with Exxon Mobil introducing the well-established Exxon and Mobil brands into our retail network providing the capability to drive additional retail fuel sales volumes further integrating our refining and marketing businesses supporting sustainably higher refinery utilization.
We made significant progress on our high-return capital program during the second quarter with the expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery and the completion of the first phase of the Salt Lake City Conversion Project.
These high return capital projects drive product yield improvements and expand our capability to run cost-advantaged crude oil.
We also delivered a solid operating performance with refinery utilization of 93%.
This was achieved despite significant turnaround activity at our Salt Lake City and Anacortes refineries.
During the second quarter we continued to execute our share buyback program with about $100 million in purchases.
So far in the third quarter we purchased an additional $30 million taking total purchases to about 2/3 of the $500 million outstanding program.
And finally yesterday we announced a 25% increase in our regular quarterly dividend to $0.25 per share.
Now turning to results for the quarter.
Strong light product crack spreads and continued however lower-than-last-year feedstock cost advantage provided an attractive margin environment in the quarter.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the second quarter averaged about $15 per barrel essentially flat relative to a year ago while the company's realized gross margin of $15.42 per barrel or over 100% of the Tesoro Index.
Our performance relative to the internal benchmark was negatively impacted by turnaround activity and lower yet still strong year-over-year discounts on advantaged crude oil.
Despite the significant turnaround activity refinery throughput rates during the quarter averaged 624 000 barrels per day or 93% utilization up 101 000 barrels per day relative to the second quarter last year.
The year-over-year increase in throughput is attributable primarily to the addition of the Carson refinery on June 1.
We are very pleased with the operating performance of Carson in June running in excess of 100% utilization capturing an attractive margin environment which can be seen in the reported results in our California region.
The integration of Carson with our legacy Southern California refining and marketing business is going very well.
We look forward to providing additional details around the integration and an updated view of the expected synergies later this year.
Beyond the strong operating performance we delivered 2 significant high-return capital projects on time during the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we completed the first phase of the Salt Lake City Conversion Project in May which allows us to run additional cost-advantaged waxy crude oil from the Uintah Basin.
With the completion of the first phase we can run up to 17 000 barrels per day of this advantaged crude oil.
After completing the second phase of the project which is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect to be able to run up to 22 000 barrels per day of waxy crude oil.
The combination of Phase 1 and Phase 2 capital spending for the project has increased by about $95 million.
This was driven by the accelerated project schedule and a change in scope.
The second phase of the project also allows us to expand total throughput capacity of the Salt Lake City refinery by about 4 000 barrels per day or 7% and improved clean product yield.
Additionally in June of this year we completed the expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery increasing capacity of that unit by nearly 30% to 22 000 barrels per day driving our ability to produce more high-valued diesel fuel.
Manufacturing costs in the first quarter averaged $5.39 per barrel up $0.53 per barrel quarter-over-quarter impacted primarily by refinery maintenance during the second quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up over 60% year-over-year reflecting the addition of 835 high-volume ARCO retail stations on June 1 of this year and the 174 Thrifty Oil company retail stations we brought into the system last year.
Thanks to our fuel sales during the quarter we're up about 3% and retail marketing margins were down about $0.16 per gallon relative to the same period last year.
Capital spending for the second quarter was $170 million.
Turnaround spending was $118 million.
Including the impact from our recent acquisitions we increased our 2013 capital budget by $130 million and now expect consolidated capital spending of $690 million including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
We increased our turnaround budget for 2013 by $90 million and now expect about $400 million in turnaround spending this year.
As we shared with you in December of last year 2013 is an exceptionally high turnaround spending year for the company excluding Carson and we look forward to lower planned spending and improved production yields on our legacy assets for the next few years.
Despite recent volatility we remain optimistic about U.S.
refining market conditions.
As we have said for some time independent of favorable market conditions we are driving significant value from our existing asset base and optimizing our portfolio of assets.
The actions we have taken as we have delivered on our strategic plan provide exciting opportunities to grow future earnings and improve return on capital employed.
For example with the sale of the Hawaii business we'll be able to redeploy several hundred million dollars of working capital from the lower-return Hawaii business to the Carson refinery driving an improvement in return on capital employed.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the third quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night second quarter net income from continuing operations was $238 million or $1.72 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we reported an adjusted net income from continuing operations of $216 million or $1.56 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include after-tax $34 million of income related to a pipeline settlement in California and about $12 million after-tax of transaction costs related to the 2 acquisitions we closed on during the second quarter.
That compares to adjusted net income from continuing operations in the second quarter of last year of $380 million or $2.70 per diluted share.
Special items that we excluded last year include after-tax $11 million primarily in legal matters and a $6 million after-tax accrual related to a benefit change for our retirement-eligible employees.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the 2013 quarter on a pretax basis were $49 million before $5 million in corporate depreciation $17 million in noncash stock-based compensation credit and $19 million of transaction costs that I just mentioned.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $170 million.
Turnaround spending was $118 million.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of over $420 million a use of over $1.5 billion for the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA of about $530 million was a source of cash during the quarter.
Uses of cash include capital and turnaround spending of about $290 million shareholder distribution and share buybacks of nearly $150 million cash interest and taxes of just under $100 million and working capital and other of about $695 million.
We also utilized about $870 million in cash on hand to fund the Carson acquisition and TLLP's acquisition of the Northwest Products System during the quarter.
Our use of cash for working capital during the quarter was primarily a result of a seasonal build in inventory as we ramp up refinery utilization temporary inventory late [ph] coming out of significant refinery maintenance and a slight inventory build at Carson post-closing.
To fund the Carson acquisition we increased our borrowings by about $1.7 billion during the quarter consisting of $500 million in term loan borrowings at Tesoro $700 million in revolver borrowings at Tesoro and $544 million in revolver borrowings at Tesoro Logistics to fund their acquisition of Carson's logistics assets.
At the end of the second quarter we had additional revolving credit capacity of about $1.5 billion on the corporate revolver and just over $30 million on the Tesoro Logistics revolver.
Yesterday Tesoro Logistics closed a $550 million 6 1/8% senior notes offering due in 2021.
Proceeds from the offering were used to pay off all outstanding borrowings under -- through our Tesoro Logistics revolver leaving the partnership undrawn on that facility today.
Consolidated total debt to total capitalization is 39% or 36% excluding Tesoro Logistics.
Turning to the third quarter.
The third quarter typically sees a slight seasonal increase in demand for gasoline and distillates in PADD V.
On a year-over-year basis we've seen same-store fuel sales up over 2% in our retail channel of trade in July similar to the second quarter.
Quarter-to-date industry refinery utilization rates on the West Coast are slightly above the 5-year average and light product inventory is well within the 5-year range or above average.
Accordingly West Coast crack spreads quarter-to-date are down over 25% relative to both the second quarter of this year and the third quarter of last year.
In the Mid-Continent the decline in the discount of WTI to LLS has had an impact on Group 3 crack spreads quarter-to-date which are down about 30% quarter-over-quarter and over 40% year-over-year.
Inland feedstock advantage however in the northern tier of the U.S.
Mid-Continent specifically for Bakken crude oil has remained attractive where crude oil discounts tend to be driven more by rail transportation costs to coastal refining centers.
I'll close with guidance for the third quarter modeling purposes.
This guidance includes Carson but excludes Hawaii.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 515 to 525 in the California region 165 to 175 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent.
Manufacturing cost guidance for this quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $5.75 in the California region; $4.10 in the Pacific Northwest; and $3.70 in the Mid-Continent.
While we expect some level of throughput in operating expense at the Hawaii refinery as we restart the facility prior to the sale we intend to again report the Mid-Pacific region as a discontinued operation.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $100 million.
Additional third quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expenses excluding depreciation of $48 million and interest expense before interest income of $43 million.
Our corporate expense guidance includes the impact of integration costs as well as some trailing transaction costs.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our second quarter results.
With the bulk of the planned 2013 turnaround activity behind us we look forward to running at high refinery utilization rates and capturing attractive market conditions.
With the addition of the Carson refinery and the continued execution of our strategic plan we are encouraged with the prospects of future growth at Tesoro.
Using the third quarter as an example and the midpoint of our California region throughput guidance we expect to add 260 000 barrels per day or over 100% of year-over-year growth in California.
Additionally with our near-term ability to generate significant cash flow via the sale of our Hawaii business the sale of the second tranche of Carson logistics assets to TLLP and cash flow from operations we look forward to shortly returning Tesoro's balance sheet to the same strong position as prior to the Carson acquisition.
We remain focused on our strategic priority of financial discipline and we'll continue to prioritize investing in high-return capital projects returning cash to shareholders via a strong and competitive dividend buying back shares and delevering our balance sheet.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A question on California.
The California -- you beat the quarter with a higher capture rate and I was wondering if you could give me any color here.
Did you just run well in California or is that the inclusion of Carson that lifted returns? Any way to -- any color on separating those 2 items? I'll let Dan comment on that to you -- for you Evan.
Yes Evan I think we'd characterize our capture rate as pretty close to what we expected.
120%-plus capture rate on 107% utilization is pretty strong.
Actually the higher utilization reduced capture a bit relative to what we'd expect at utilizations that are sub-100%.
Carson obviously had a great run in the month of June and it was a piece of success.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And a question on differentials.
They've compressed since announcing your planned rail project in Vancouver.
If we focus on California where I presume a lion's share of the volumes will likely go if we consider rail shipping yield lift I mean is the cash breakeven from Bakken [ph] is something -- is it around a $10 number? Can you give me any more specifics around where that indifference point is for you? Evan we still see the differentials on that Bakken crude going to the West Coast as unchanged on a go-forward basis.
We see the attractiveness of -- because of the lower cost to move Bakken there relative to other locations.
And the yield advantage that you get that continues to be strong over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any color on how much? I know you said you're going to give a synergy update on Carson later in the year but any update on how you may change that crude diet? Or is that also something we'd expect later in the year? Yes.
I mean everything we've seen so far we're very positive on our early indications for the business and we plan to fully talk about what we see as we get a little bit more time to digest that later this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert.
Research Division</strong> Very impressive list of business development activities underway at the company.
What I wanted to ask about was the Port of Vancouver railing unloading project.
I saw that you'd recently received Board of Commissioner approval.
What's the status of your environmental permitting process and what major hurdles do you have before starting construction? Yes you're exactly right Jeff.
We did receive unanimous approval from the commissioners last week which was a very positive step forward.
We are now in the process of going through the permitting process to being able to bring the facility online.
And that hasn't really changed.
We expect that to take a better part of about a year to get that fully developed in that.
And it's just the normal challenges of going through the regulatory process and complying with all the requirements but we're fully prepared between Tesoro and with Savage to deal with that.
And fortunately we've already gone through a process similar when we did the Anacortes permit last year so we have some experience of how to do that.
Research Division</strong> Is there any notable resistance either local or state? I know you were successful generating support for the Carson acquisition.
Any notable resistance to the Vancouver project? It's just what you would expect.
I mean there are different parties that have their opinions on this type of activity that you have to work your way through in that.
But we're very confident with our plans on how we will operate with our sensitivity and awareness of the environment in that that we'll be able to work through all of that.
But there's nothing that stands out at this point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the I guess synergies I guess we're always going to dig for that.
But when you think about the synergies are you thinking about bringing forward the synergies or do you think you'll actually even be able to exceed the sort of $250 million because that was a sort of a 2017 number in the original plan for Carson? I think in fairness Ed I think we're -- everything that we've seen so far looks very encouraging and positive and we just need a little bit of time to firm up our synergy plans.
So a little bit later this year we'll be able to lock in on numbers and more importantly the timing with an expectation that we'll do everything we can to front-end load those synergies.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the black wax you said first phase is complete which is great and then the second phase is in 2014.
But can you just remind us of how much EBITDA you think you'd get up in an uplift from the first part of that phase? And then I think I heard you discuss changing the scope and maybe increasing the costs a little bit there.
Can you just elaborate? Yes that's a good question.
Let me ask Dan to respond to both of those questions.
Okay.
Regarding the EBITDA from Phase 1 versus Phase 2 they were about equally split.
When we reviewed the project originally I believe we said the EBITDA was in the $100 million range.
So at a run rate we should assume that Phase 1 is about $50 million here and Phase 2 will be the remaining $50 million.
On the capital perspective yes we did recently complete our defined gate estimate for Phase 2 and that estimate along with the capital costs that we've seen to date on Phase 1 have increased the total capital costs by about $90 million.
The EBITDA and the project schedule remain consistent with our prior guidance so the project itself remains quite attractive at plus 30% rate of return.
The primary reasons for the cost escalation as Greg mentioned are our desire to continue to meet accelerated project delivery that we announced originally.
We received our permit for construction in third quarter of last year and then needed to complete all the time work for Phase 1 in the second quarter of this year and we'll prepare for the remaining time for Phase 2 in the fourth quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> So a great project but it's sort of that CapEx is going up without an increase in EBITDA is what I'm hearing? That's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Greg is it too early for you to have changed the crude slate at Carson? Or is that something that's still ahead of us? Yes it's a little bit too early as we -- I mean it's been only 60 days Doug so it's something we'll work on over time but it's just a little bit too early.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess what I'm kind of thinking is obviously Savage is a project for the future but can you give us any more color as to what your plans are if you can outline those out a little bit more in terms of how exactly -- what you expect to be moving through Savage and whether or not the volumes you could -- you would actually take your partner's volume down for their site [ph] as well? Well a couple of points.
One is the facility at the Port of Vancouver in Washington will have actually a lot of flexibility and capability to take different types of crudes from heavy Canadian crudes to crudes from the Mid-Continent so we'll have that capability with the tankage and segregation there.
So we will source crude from where the best place is.
The facility also was designed to supply the entire West Coast.
I mean we can go from as far away as Alaska to Southern California in those refineries which we intend to do.
Now you made a point about Savage.
I mean Savage is an operative facility.
They don't supply crude there.
It's the companies that contract for the crude there.
So we will take the crude from -- initially our crude is destined for Southern California probably from Bakken.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But would you expect to have right of first refusal if you like for the total uptick? We have a lot of flexibility to access the facility there so we have.
There's a lot of potential there.
As we mentioned initially we've just targeted to come on with about 120 000 barrels a day.
But we can ramp up very very quickly to just short of a 300 000 barrels a day if the demand's there not only from Tesoro but anyone else from that standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And 2 very final quick ones if I may.
I've -- we're all trying to scratch around on breakeven prices for rails in the Bakken but is there an ANS Bakken level where you would see the economics of railing Bakken crude doesn't work? Is there a number that you can give us for that? I think there's a couple.
Research Division</strong> Yield up there? Yes.
And instead of giving a specific number because I think it's more important to understand what it's comprised of I mean there are 2 parts.
One is which we've always said from the very beginning is the upgrade value because of the quality of Bakken relative to ANS is in that $3 to $5 a barrel range.
And we've said that from day 1 we've recently validated that.
So from a yield standpoint at the refinery that is still present.
In addition the cost to go from Bakken to the Pacific Northwest for example in this case to Anacortes is the rail rate which we've talked about before the loading fee the unloading fee and the rail car costs which to us they're in the $9 or so range and it will be slightly less to get to Port of Vancouver because the rail costs are less to get to Vancouver to deliver into the facility.
So if you look at the cost there of around $9 or so and then the yield advantage you can kind of see where the spread needs to be between the Bakken crude and ANS.
Those are locked in so those are firm numbers Doug.
Research Division</strong> The last one for me should we expect the buyback to slow down while you sort out the balance sheet? And I'll leave it here.
Regarding the buyback we're very disciplined.
It's our intent to continue to execute and complete the buyback by the end of 2013.
Our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A lot of the operational stuff has already been hit.
I was just going to ask you've obviously got a lot of potential here of drop-downs to TLLP going forward that will help on raising funds for the balance sheet.
But when you think about the debt repayment versus further dividend increases share repos let's just call it maybe generally shareholder returns how is that going to be weighed over the next say 12 to 18 months? Yes.
It's our intent and it's been our objective for the last 3 years to maintain a very strong balance sheet.
And we stated we wanted total debt to total cap below 30%.
On a go-forward basis as we hit some high points in the commentary earlier today we have the upcoming sale of the Hawaii business which frees up working capital.
We have the upcoming sale of the second tranche of logistics assets in California which will raise a fair amount of capital and that money will be used to pay back the borrowings as Scott specifically talked about in the -- how we funded the Carson acquisition.
So just those 2 alone you can see where that takes us to get back to almost the same state we were prior to that.
So it's -- we feel like we have a very clear plan to be able to do that in a very short timeframe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And kind of taking that -- I'm sorry? No comment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Taking that just a little further as you look out I know when you look at CapEx everybody always has sort of a wish list and then you whittle that down to what's actually available to be funded.
Obviously you've expanded or accelerated Salt Lake.
We've already done the expansion at Mandan.
As you kind of look out there and say what are the kind of things you can still do that improve performance or increase capacity what should we be thinking about? I mean it seems unlikely that California gets increased just because permitting is such a challenge but Pac Northwest or Alaska something in that area should we be looking at or is it much more you just want to improve what you have at this point? Yes we are not driven by increasing capacity.
We are very much focused on what we've been doing and that is to strengthen the yields coming off of the refineries and be able to lower our feedstock costs everywhere we can by how we can invest or source different types of crude oil to the projects.
And then finally if we find ways to lower the operating costs we will also do that.
So we are very focused on those 3 primary drivers of how we deploy capital to what we call our income projects.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin from Cowen.
Research Division</strong> Just going back -- actually going back a few years when you first unveiled your program I think the yield enhancements were going to create a little bit of incremental RINs exposure.
But at the same time you've invested a lot in retail assets since then.
And I was just wondering if that has been maybe eliminated or close to scratched out? You certainly can't see any RINs impact in California for example in this last quarter.
Yes I think maybe to clarify I mean a lot of our focus on yield improvement has probably been more towards the distillate end of the barrel than the gasoline end of the barrel of what we've been trying to do just so from a yield standpoint.
But the other thing that we've been very focused on as a result of the business model that we have is to be highly integrated.
So what we have done over the last 2 to 3 years is really focus on creating a very integrated refining marketing and logistics business which allows us to then place primarily the gasoline through channels of trade that support ratability and profitability in that.
And as a consequence that has a positive impact on the gasoline RINs that were required to -- by the big impact from the recent acquisition of Carson.
It's 100% integrated so that further strengthened our position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I think that's pretty evident from the results.
And also just secondly over the past few months there has been some acceleration in entities that control some real estate [indiscernible] and refineries there about building some rail loading facilities and I was just wondering if those projects and those initiatives have colored your agenda as far as unloading facilities in California and I know the permitting process is long but if now that you see some horizon for a lot of offtake going West if that's going to affect your plans.
Yes.
I mean we're -- our plans are -- we're very focused on what we are able to do to deliver more advantaged-price crude oils into the West Coast.
We wish those people good luck in their efforts to do that and we do take some -- we have said in the past that we do take some manifest cars into California already but our focus is on the Port of Vancouver and primarily because we believe the cost is equal to delivering it by rail car into California.
So [indiscernible] Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just on that -- will you be willing to share that what's in June Carson may have made in EBITDA? Paul we're going to report -- report it all as one segment for California not get away from that but we can say that as I think Dan made the point earlier to a prior question is that California ran at 100% utilization so the market conditions were good.
And so the facility from a profitability standpoint performed extremely well and pretty much in line with what our expectations were when we acquired it.
Research Division</strong> Or let me ask it in another way that if we're looking at your reported margin and also the operating costs in California is Carson number coming in roughly in line with those average or that is it the margin capture -- the margin is higher or lower to that and because it's higher or lower? Yes.
Let me take that one.
Paul the operating cost is probably the simplest way to -- or the simple answer Carson's operating costs are consistent with what we saw with the legacy California business and I'll probably stay away from the margin piece.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then talking about California I think Wilmington has always been an area that the costs seems to be a bit higher than what you guys would like.
Any progress on further reduce the cost there or do you think you already have done all you could in that facility? Well as you recall back in December we announced our intent to drop California operating costs by $1 a barrel.
Actually I think we provided an update at that time and the update at that time was $0.60 to $0.70 per barrel is what we'd achieved.
And we closed additional gap since that time enroute to $1 a barrel.
The rail operating cost improvement from this point on in California will be due to the synergy we can create when we tie and as we tie Wilmington and Carson together.
So the shorter answer to the question is we've gone a long ways and there is actually quite a bit more to go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys have raised 2013 CapEx.
Any preliminary estimate for the CapEx for 2014 and '15? Not any different than what we said last year Paul.
It's just a little bit too early.
We'll be doing that at the end of the year but not different from what we said last year which only talked about -- it did not include Carson in there but just the legacy Tesoro assets.
Research Division</strong> And then the Carson we should just use -- at the time when you did your presentation that we should use those number at year on.
Is there any change from there? No I think that would be -- at this point in time that would be a good number to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that Dan I think that in the second half you guys don't have much of a turnaround.
How about in the first half of next year are we going to see another year of pretty heavy turnaround or that is probably processed and we're not going to see major turnaround like what we did in the first half this year until maybe 2 or 3 years down the road? Our view on the legacy assets remains consistent with what we've disclosed previously.
And that is we are coming out of the peak period so 2014 and for the next few years should be significantly lower than what we've seen in the last 2 years.
Research Division</strong> How about Carson? Do you need to go in relatively soon for any major turnarounds? We haven't disclosed '14 in detail for Carson yet and we're looking at it.
I think the best thing for you guys to use for now is the ratable 1.25 [ph] number that we've previously discussed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final one Greg.
I know that you guys don't have much of an exposure for RIN this year but I'm just curious that from an industry standpoint is there any particular reason why RIN cannot in the building invoice to your customer to go the similar way as in the way that you would identify or bill them independently order as a separate item so that people know that whether their cost is being passed through? Yes.
I think Paul the answer to your question is companies have to do whatever they choose to how they respond to their customers and that -- and they have different agreements with different types of customers and that's -- I mean that is something people could consider but it's really going to be company specific.
Research Division</strong> And you guys have no intention to do that? We look at everything.
We haven't made a decision on doing anything like that.
I mean it's an idea I know that you brought up before and worthy of consideration but we have not taken a position on that yet.
Our next question comes from the line of Chi Chow from Macquarie Capital.
Greg I want to follow up on a couple of items that you talked about earlier in the call.
Regarding the cash flows coming in from Hawaii and the Carson logistics drop-down there is another bucket that you talked about earlier and that being excess inventory at Carson maybe being sold.
Is that still on the table and has that been completed yet? That's a good question Chi.
That is one of the things that we're -- as the dust settles now after the transaction's complete and we've been going through integration we are going back in and establishing how we'll manage the inventory and the networking capital position.
And so I would say the answer is we still expect to gain cash flow improvements from how we manage the networking capital position.
We're just not completed with that but it's an opportunity for us here in the second half of this year.
Okay great.
And then regarding the light crude opportunities into the West Coast you mentioned you're focused specifically on -- probably more on bringing Bakken in to California.
But assuming that there's no constraints on delivery method in the future is there some specific reason maybe from a crude assay standpoint that Bakken works better in California than say crude at the Permian or the Delaware basin or the San Juan Mancos basin those in the southern Mid-Continent? Is there some specific reason why Bakken works better? Just the cost advantage that you get from a quality standpoint.
From a yield there's not a significant difference there but it just becomes a function of how those crudes price relative to the source and our cost to get them into our system.
So no there really aren't.
Okay.
So on a quality standpoint it's really -- they're pretty similar? No significant difference yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Greg I'll ask you if you a big stressy in a second but just a detail one.
You seem to be warning on Q3 margins to date.
Is there anything unusual about the capture that you're achieving of what we've seen so far in Q3? Or is it just going to be a fairly straight line tough start to the quarter because of the lower margins that you referenced? Yes when Scott referenced kind of month -- the July margin it shows on a relative basis they're down in that.
But from a capture standpoint we have nothing that would be different from what we've experienced in the past.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I mean the positive obviously is being the capture you've seen in Q2.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> At run rate at Carson actually I mean were they implied run rates I guess I should say at Carson? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Were they above what the previous owner had been showing or is that a fairly -- again a fairly straightforward level of...? What the -- I'm sorry but one of the nice features about that facility is that it has always achieved high utilization rates.
It's a very integrated business and the utilization refinery is really kind of our leading industry in utilization.
Research Division</strong> The -- you were asked already about the change of crude slate there too early.
I guess that's not going to take too long though before it could -- I think be anticipated to have a pretty dramatic impact on for example Alaska North Slope crude markets? Yes.
It is our intent to make a tremendous focus on how we supply crude oil to the refinery and gain crude advantage there so we are doing everything we can to be able to do that.
So as we said earlier it's -- we're 60 days into it but we will definitely find opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Is it going to be a matter of months or is it something that's kind of -- fairly imminent that you'd change.
Well there's no question that the biggest flexibility that we gained is by having Port of Vancouver because when you can source as much crude as we could into Vancouver that opens the door up far wider.
But we're working on all possibilities as we speak right now and we'll be able to share more on what our plans are coming up at the latter part of this year.
Research Division</strong> Are you going to be doing an Analyst Meeting later? Yes we'll do our Analyst Meeting in December around the same timeframe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a reminder on the strategy.
I mean obviously people have referenced you got a tremendous amount of corporate action going on here.
You said in the past you want an integrated company that there may be opportunities.
I understand around your footprint presumably not more in California.
Can you just remind us how you see the ultimate aim of the company in terms of where we settle in if you like once -- is there a completion point is I guess what I'm driving towards in terms of all this action that you're taking? The management team here we are very committed to our geographic area.
We've been very clear from the beginning.
We look at all possible opportunities to see if they fit and if there is ways for us to create value with those opportunities as with other assets of that being part of the portfolio.
And we will continue to do that where it makes sense and it can create value so we stay abreast of that all the time Paul.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's just that when you listed the stuff that you were kind of prioritizing at the end of your prepared remarks it seemed that you're almost turning focus more back to balance sheet -- in due course back to balance sheet and if you'd like less corporate action? No.
I think our focus on that hasn't changed really from day 1 on if I'd use -- to use your term of corporate action but there's -- we are very committed to being very disciplined with our financial position so that if we do and find an opportunity we've said all along that we would go after those from a position of strength.
And so our focus in the very short term and we're talking months is to restore our financial position to one of strength.
And because of the steps we've taken it's -- I mean you have these discrete steps of the sale of Hawaii the sale of the logistics assets the chief question about our focus on working capital [ph] and that allows us to get back within a matter of months to a good strong financial position.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question regarding the agreement with Exxon Mobil on the branding for both of those brands Exxon and Mobil and sort of the northern California and around the Mandan facility.
What are your -- I know in the release you indicated that there were a number of -- I guess for the branded sites that you would be -- or contracts that you would be getting what was that 54? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> What is -- do you have options regarding your current branded folks? Can they -- can you offer them the Exxon or the Mobil names? Or what is the opportunity to really exploit those 2 new very high-quality brand names? Ann this is Dan.
Maybe I'll take that one.
Yes we have the rights to use the Exxon Mobil brands in the regions that you mentioned which were Northern California and the Pacific Northwest as well as North Dakota and the Minnesota area.
We can use those in generally any manner that we would wish.
We likely wouldn't go and offer those brands necessarily to our existing Shell dealers because that's already a premium brand channel that we have.
That would more likely be an opportunity for us to grow new channel business.
And that was the real value of this branding opportunity is we lacked a premium brand presence capability for Northern California and the Pacific Northwest and that's what this provides.
And your next question comes from the line of Clay Rynd from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the increased CapEx the $130 million is it -- should we assume that's all Carson or is part of that kind of the Salt Lake City increase.
Had you budgeted Carson into the $560 million originally? Or just kind of talk around that.
Sure.
This is Dan Clay.
We did not include Carson on our prior guidance because we hadn't closed yet on Carson.
So the $130 million increase is primarily Carson-related let's say around $100 million of it and the remainder is Salt Lake City.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then on the rail terminal at Vancouver you've mentioned $75 million to $100 million for the initial construction costs.
Is there much incremental costs to ramp volumes there? Or is that kind of the cost that's really the main slug? Yes initially when we came out with the Port of Vancouver project we stated that we saw total capital costs of $75 million to $100 million.
And just to restate that is the joint venture between Tesoro and Savage and so it's -- our share of that is 50% of that.
As we get further into the development and as we determine the actual capacity there could be increases in capital.
But to set up the 120 000 barrels a day our $50 million or 50% is a good estimate to get started.
Our last question in the queue comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just on the logistics assets now that they've kind of grown to a fairly large position within the company what are the plans in terms of breaking that out in the overall consolidated results so what you can see the -- what -- logistics is earning versus what's being charged to refining? And then I have a follow-up for that.
No no intentions to break it out.
I mean you can look at the Tesoro Logistics standalone entity and get a good indication of the contribution of the logistics business and the distributions that come back into Tesoro through there but no changes in our reporting.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
That makes sense.
And then just in terms of the assets that were dropped down to logistics from the BP Carson City assets logistics assets did they -- did you reset the tariffs and fees on those assets? And are they now kind of representative of sort of third [ph] market base sort of rates? Well they were proprietary assets until we took the steps we did at the beginning of June.
And the practice is to go out and survey the market and the rates that are charged for the use of those assets are absolutely market-based rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did that change very much at all when you made that determination? From -- Change from our initial assessment? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean our -- we did an estimate early on and there was not -- because we have some experience since we're already in that market we got a pretty good idea what the rates were.
So there was not a material change in the rates at all there.
The mark rates are pretty -- they're pretty transparent.
At this time we have no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen thank you all for joining and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations for opening remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our third quarter 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations and Scott Spendlove the Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosures and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause the results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of results in a moment but I'm going to start with an overview of the highlights for the third quarter.
Despite a challenging margin environment during the quarter we delivered net income of $0.72 per diluted share.
These results include earnings of $0.26 per diluted share related to the sale and discontinued operation of our Hawaii business.
Net earnings from continuing operations are $0.46 per diluted share or $0.44 excluding special items.
The Tesoro Index in the third quarter averaged about $8.50 per barrel down over $8 per barrel relative to a year ago or about $6.50 compared to the second quarter of this year.
The company's realized gross margin was $9.22 per barrel for the quarter.
For the quarter we reported strong utilization rates across all regions with total throughput in the quarter of 863 000 barrels per day or 102% utilization.
The improved utilization and higher throughput drove manufacturing cost per barrel down to $4.76 in the third quarter a reduction of $0.63 per barrel from the second quarter.
Retail fuel sale volumes were up over 120% year-over-year reflecting the addition of 835 high-volume ARCO retail gas stations as part of the Los Angeles refining marketing and logistics acquisition on June 1 of this year.
Retail marketing margins were down relative to the same period last year.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up about 2%.
Our RINs cost were down in the third quarter and we expect those costs to be immaterial in the fourth quarter.
The lower RIN cost reflects both lower prices for RINs in the marketplace and benefits from the Los Angeles refinery acquisition which has increased our capacity to blend renewable biodiesel.
Capital spending for the third quarter was $123 million.
Turnaround spending was $24 million.
We anticipate full year 2013 consolidated capital spending including regulatory maintenance and income projects will now be about $585 million down from our previous guidance of $690 million.
We continue to expect $400 million of turnaround spending for the full year 2013.
The remaining $118 million of turnaround spending will be spent primarily on our California refineries during the fourth quarter.
We repurchased another $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the quarter.
Through the end of October we have purchased an additional $38 million worth of shares bringing total purchases to $440 million or about 88% of the $500 million authorization.
Yesterday the Board of Directors increased the existing $500 million share repurchase program to $1 billion and declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share further demonstrating our commitment to financial discipline and returning value to our shareholders.
We ended the third quarter with nearly $1.5 billion of cash a build up over $1 billion during the quarter.
Most of the build was driven by proceeds from the sale of the Hawaii business and reductions in working capital.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter we repaid $500 million of the $1.2 billion of interim borrowings used to fund the Los Angeles acquisition taking Tesoro's leverage excluding Tesoro Logistics to 31% pro forma for September 30.
The activities and results of the third quarter truly reflect our commitment to our strategic priorities.
The sale of the Hawaii business to Hawaii Pacific Energy a wholly-owned subsidiary of Par Petroleum was a strategic exit from low return assets in Hawaii.
With the sale we have effectively reallocated $325 million of net working capital to the higher return in more strategic Los Angeles assets.
We continue to pursue opportunities to increase our capacity to run advantage crude oil throughout our system and we realized continued improvements there in the third quarter as well.
We delivered approximately 50 000 barrels per day of Bakken crude oil to our Anacortes Washington refinery through the Tesoro Logistics rail offloading facility.
We also started taking up to 3 unit trains a month of Bakken crude oil into our Martinez refinery through a third-party facility adding to the manifest rail cars we've already been delivering to that refinery.
With the addition of these unit trains we have the capacity to deliver nearly 350 000 barrels per month of Bakken crude oil into our Martinez California refinery.
Our joint venture with Savage to build a 280 000-barrel per day rail offloading facility at the Port of Vancouver Washington has moved into the permitting phase with applications for environmental permits being submitted in August.
We continue to expect that facility to be up and operational sometime late next year or early in 2015 and intend to offer it for sale to Tesoro Logistics LP.
In Salt Lake City after completing the first phase of the conversion project in the second quarter this year and ramping up production over the third quarter we now expect to run an average of 17 000 barrels per day of cost advantaged waxy crude oil from the Uinta basin during the fourth quarter.
We optimized the timing of bringing this project online with a turnaround plan and Phase 2 of this project is now expected to be completed during the end of the first quarter to the beginning of the second quarter of 2015 taking total runs of the cost advantage waxy crude oil to 22 000 barrels per day increasing our total throughput capacity by 4 000 barrels per day and improving overall clean product yields.
There is no change to prior estimates of the total project EBITDA of $100 million per year or the total cost of $275 million.
On the clean product side we also enjoyed the first full quarter's contribution from the expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery increasing our ability to produce additional higher-valued products.
The expansion allowed us to increase overall throughput rates at the refinery and distillate production increased by over 25% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
This project has performed better than our expectations during the third quarter as evidenced by the strong capture rate reported in our Mid-Continent region.
Turning to the recent acquisition of the integrated Los Angeles refining marketing and logistics business.
We are extremely pleased with the operating performance of the Los Angeles refinery and the integration is going very well.
The synergies we anticipated prior to close appear to be even greater than we originally thought.
We plan on providing a full update of our expectations for synergy sources amounts and timing at our Analyst Day meeting in New York on December 10.
We continue to progress the sale of nearly all of the remaining logistics assets at Los Angeles to TLLP and now expect the value of those assets to sell in the range of $600 million to $700 million.
Combined with the proceeds of $640 million from the initial sale of logistics assets the second sale will take total proceeds to almost $1.3 billion more than the $1.1 billion we paid for the refining marketing and logistics assets at the close on June 1.
We expect to use some of the proceeds to further reduce debt and drive leverage back down under 30% returning our balance sheet to the same position of strength we enjoyed prior to the Los Angeles acquisition and doing so in less than a year after closing.
Using TLLP's lower cost of capital to fund more than half of the Los Angeles acquisition drives value to our Tesoro shareholders.
You can see from all we've done this year that we are driving significant value from our existing asset base and optimizing our portfolio of assets and we continue to look for and identify new ways to grow the value of our business.
Before I turn the call over to Scott let me comment briefly on Tesoro Logistics High Plains pipeline incident in North Dakota.
TLLP reported that Tesoro High Plains pipeline experienced an approximate 20 000-barrel release of crude oil in a rural field northeast of Tioga North Dakota.
TLLP recently restarted that section of the pipeline and continues to work with the landowner regulators local state and federal government officials to remediate the site and investigate the incident.
The incident did not impact crude oil supply to our Mandan or Anacortes refineries.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the fourth quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night third quarter net income from continuing operations was $64 million or $0.46 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we reported an adjusted net income from continuing operations of $60 million or $0.44 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include: after tax net income of $0.14 per diluted share related to the reversal of a legal reserve around Alaska pipeline tariffs and proceeds from business interruption insurance in Anacortes and expenses of about $0.12 per diluted share related to integration costs and a noncash inventory valuation adjusted -- adjustment related to the 2 acquisitions we closed during the second quarter.
That compares to net income from continuing operations in the third quarter last year of $259 million or $1.82 per diluted share.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the third quarter of 2013 on a pre-tax basis were $52 million before $6 million of corporate depreciation and excluding a benefit of $21 million in noncash stock-based compensation and $14 million of integration cost that I just mentioned.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of about $1.5 billion an increase of $1.1 billion for the quarter.
Sources of cash included adjusted EBITDA of about $308 million changes in working capital of $531 million and proceeds of $514 million for the sale of our Hawaii operations.
The changes in working capital were primarily related to the Los Angeles acquisition offsetting the significant use of working capital we experienced in the second quarter related to the acquisition of the timing of cargo payments and receipts worked through our cash conversion cycle.
Uses of cash include capital and turnaround spending of about $150 million in the quarter shareholder distributions and share buybacks of $150 million and cash interest and taxes of about $15 million.
At the end of the third quarter we had additional revolving credit capacity of about $1.5 billion on the corporate revolver and $575 million on the Tesoro Logistics revolver.
Tesoro's total debt to total capitalization excluding Tesoro Logistics debt at the end of the third quarter was 36%.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter the company repaid $500 million of the $1.2 billion of short-term borrowings related to the Los Angeles acquisition.
We now have approximately $2 billion available on our revolving credit facility post this debt reduction.
Following the debt repayment total Tesoro debt was $1.97 billion or approximately 31% of total capitalization pro forma for the end of the third quarter of 2013.
Tesoro Logistics debt totaled $909 million at the end of the third quarter.
Turning to the fourth quarter and guidance.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 480 to 500 in the California region 155 to 165 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent.
Manufacturing cost guidance for this quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $6 to $6.25 in the California region $4 to $4.25 in the Pacific Northwest and $3.60 to $3.85 in the Mid-Continent.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $120 million going forward.
Additional fourth quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $72 million and interest expense before interest income of $44 million.
Our corporate expense guidance includes the impact of integration costs as well as some one-time restructuring costs.
Our expected quarterly run rate for corporate expense is in the range of $55 million to $60 million going forward.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with the progress of several of our major initiatives.
Additionally with the $500 million in debt reductions previously discussed and the sale of the majority of the remaining Los Angeles logistics assets to TLLP we look forward to returning Tesoro's balance sheet to the same strong position as prior to the Los Angeles acquisition.
We remain focused on our strategic priority of financial discipline and we'll continue to prioritize investing in high return capital projects returning cash to shareholders via strong and competitive dividend buying back shares and delevering our balance sheet.
We look forward to further updating you in December at our Analyst Day around the progress with the Los Angeles acquisition and related synergies.
And with that Dan Scott and I will now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
I think there was -- reported that Trans Mountain had some flow reductions during 3Q that may have impacted your Syncrude deliveries at Anacortes.
Could you talk about what level of Syncrude interruption you saw in 3Q and remind us what that potential is at Anacortes for 4Q? Yes.
Dan why don't you address that question please? Jeff we're -- Jeff we're similar to all the shippers on Trans Mountain and we've previously discussed our Canadian shipments in the 30% to 40% range and we're at the bottom end of that range now.
Third quarter did see an impact with that.
We'll still stay near the bottom of that range for the fourth quarter potentially a bit better.
Research Division</strong> And so those -- that outages is continuing through the 4Q? It's not so much now.
It's just its overall pressure restriction and yes it's continuing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly ANS processing has softened a bit.
It's still for a medium sour crude trading well above LLS and WTI some other light crudes in the U.S.
With the incremental Bakken moving by rail to the Pacific Northwest and California how do you see ANS pricing evolving over time? Do you see it shifting towards something more similar to its quality? Yes it's a good question Jeff.
I think our belief is that it's -- we continue our efforts to move more of the crudes from the Mid-Continent out to the West Coast.
That it will -- ANS will price more competitively relative to those crudes which will put downward pressure on it.
Research Division</strong> Based on ANS quality what kind of incremental detriment do you think is possible? What we can see and what we've said in the past at least relative to Anacortes is that our yield advantage at Anacortes running Bakken crude relative to ANS is in the $3 per $5 per barrel range.
That's on our specific refinery.
Our next question is from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could -- just a couple of things.
On the West Coast obviously we had a bit of a sloppy market in the third quarter.
Our understanding anyway is that a bunch of refineries were running extremely well yourselves included.
So how are things looking in your respect I guess as you look forward over the next like 3 to 6 months? I mean obviously I don't expect you to give specifics on competitor downtime but is what we saw in Q3 in your mind unusual? And if so would you expect to see that for one of a better word sloppiness tighten up a little bit? And I'm curious if there's any change in the export dynamics on the product side that you've seen in the West Coast? And I've got a follow-up please.
Yes Doug let me take that.
I'll start with the export market.
If you have looked at the AEI [ph] data which probably you have you'll noticed that so far in the third quarter the data would show that we're about 200 000 barrels a day export off of the West Coast which is above 80 000 barrels a day higher than we've seen historically.
We've not provided specific guidance on the level of participation from Tesoro but we are a participant in that market.
As far as the level of run rates in the West Coast during the third quarter and whether that's unusual I think relative to the last few years it clearly has been unusual.
We continue to run well and expect to do so for the next several quarters.
The good news is that we've got a strong marketing integration to place our product into the market and you saw that show up in a strong marketing performance for the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great appreciate that.
My follow-up I guess is another big picture question.
But yesterday we heard Holly talk about the risk of product placing in the Mid-Continent start to move towards LLS.
I'm not sure I'm entirely convinced by that risk as they followed that later on last night by saying that there was no evidence of product moving into that market.
I'm just curious if you could give your perspectives as we see Gulf Coast crude advantage really start to weighting out here how do you see the risk of product box up into what's been a very advantaged market for you guys? And I'll leave it at that.
Doug our review has been that product prices would price relative to brand as you look at the global system of being able to move products around the world and that Brent would set the pricing for that.
I guess it is possible that in local markets that you could see times when that doesn't reflect it because of being inland or that.
But we've tended to believe that prices will still price off a Brent for products.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Sankey Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you just to the extent that you're prepared to do that talk a little bit more about the synergy wins that you're having in California could you talk about where that's going to leave you on the cost curve? And in that context could you talk about how you see the California market developing from here? And finally could you talk about how much of the current extreme discounts in the Bakken that you are going to be seeing through your system given that we're so different today than we were in Q3? Paul back on California the -- I mean we're about a month away from being able to give a very clear picture of what we will deliver in California as a result of the acquisition but maybe just a few preliminary comments.
One is that we are -- we have reinforced our initial view that the synergies that we originally thought are absolutely there.
And we're excited that actually as we've gotten more into it that potential opportunity is greater than what we thought and we'll go over all the details of that.
So that to us is very encouraging because if you look at what we said all along the synergies relative to the EBITDA the business based upon our analysis at using 2011 as a year were pretty significant.
So when we come out and share more of that I think everyone will be -- when we can be more clear about what they are will see the real value of the acquisition.
And the second thing is is that as part of those synergies we are going to have an opportunity to further improve our cost structure in California which we'll lay out in December also which will be added further advantage to our system in California.
So it's -- to be honest with you it's all very very good news.
The last thing you asked about kind of the overall marketplace in California.
But when we looked at making this acquisition back in 2012 the margins the gross margins using like the LA crack spread for California had been relatively stable.
And our projections were that it would stay that way on a go-forward basis and that -- since that time the economy and things have improved out there and the fundamentals have gotten a little bit better.
So we're pretty confident with the level of where we made the acquisition will continue to be a good basis for the crack spreads.
The more important thing is is that all the synergies and benefits it will drive we believe will be additive to the value capture and we'll show that in December.
Regarding Bakken the Bakken prices have been very very attractive and we'll capture that benefit in the fourth quarter.
You can see what they've been what's published in the market in that and it's been a very attractive differential so far.
And we're running -- our Bakken refineries' running -- excuse me Mandan refinery is running 100%.
We have taken quantities of Bakken to Anacortes like we said in the -- just in the comments here.
So we'll reap those benefits.
Research Division</strong> Greg the -- I mean obviously the Bakken differential is essentially related to oversupply? Right.
The next question is from the line of Robert Kessler Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could specify a little bit the change in CapEx and what that relates to? I think you bumped it up last quarter in part on the Carson deal and now it's come back down.
Is that just simple timing around the expenditures there? Yes maybe I'll take that one.
The -- we did find opportunities to both reduce capital spending as well as shift some of it into future period where it was more efficient to spend.
Obviously in hindsight that would have been better to -- had that information where -- when we were communicating at the end of the second quarter but nevertheless it's a good new story for us.
And both of those -- and the moves on the capital both the elimination and the deferrals were done in a manner that don't impact reliability or EBITDA generation.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Port of Vancouver if I'm detecting a kind of a slight slippage in timing.
You're now throwing out the possibility of an early 2015 start.
Is that just simple kind of delays related to permitting or anything else going on there? Yes the permitting process in the State of Washington we believe is going to be pretty firm around about a 1 year period of time and originally where we thought maybe we'd be able to pick up a little bit of time.
Because of our experience in Anacortes we're not as confident that we can gain any time during that 1 year period.
So as we stated earlier we submitted all of the permits in August and we expect that to take until about August of 2014.
And then the construction time to build the tanks in that we're going to work as hard as we can to come up at the end of '14 but we have that window at late '14 early '15.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And have you decided how much of the tankage will be a heavier barrel capability versus light and a general split on throughput volumes for say a Canadian heavy barrel coming through as opposed to Bakken? The facility is an ideal facility with great efficiency and the environmental standards in that then we'll have tremendous flexibility to deliver the types of crudes that the marketplace needs as we go in there both from a Tesoro standpoint since we've already made a commitment to it but also to the other customers of using the facility.
So we'll be very flexible.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you've got good numbers as far as the rail cost by comp over from the Bakken to Anacortes.
What about the Canadian heavy rail cost? Any thoughts for what it costs to come down from Alberta? Nope not at this time.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question Scott the working capital benefits on Carson I presume it's on the inventory payable that now you start to [indiscernible].
Is that pretty much done or that we have more room for the payable on the crude to go up and become a source of fund in the fourth quarter? No that's pretty well done now Paul.
Research Division</strong> That's done okay.
And just want to -- I think that I know the answer but just want to make sure.
In -- when we're looking at your Tesoro Index your Pacific Northwest is that only based on ANS or that's also built in into either Bakken or the Canadian light sweet? Maybe I'll take that one Paul.
It's based on about 1/3 WTI and 2/3 ANS.
Research Division</strong> So that means that given the Canadian light sweet to WTI discount have widened probably by say call it $8 to $10 versus the third quarter level.
So that by itself would suggest that the Pacific Northwest probably understate or that the capture rate will be increased by quite a substantial amount of dollar per barrel? And also that this is not -- you haven't factored into any Bakken -- or in Bakken to ANS? Look like it has improved by about $9 to $10.
Both of those are correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in the Mid-Continent I believe you are just using the WTI right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And so the degree of that Bakken the WTI or Wyoming street to WTI both of them has increased by somewhere in the $5 to $6 that we should see a pretty substantial improvement in terms of the capture rate? That is also correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there anything in the fourth quarter that we should be aware that not allowing you to capture that? Not in the Mid-Continent nor in the Pacific Northwest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dave in the - when you buy Bakken do you buy it at the spot or that you buy it one month out? I'm sorry I didn't understand that question.
Research Division</strong> When you purchase Bakken should we look at it as a spot price or that it would be a delivery month and that it will be 1 month out? It's a mix.
The -- we do have a trade purchase month impact in the DC in the pricing so you do see some of that but actually pricing practices are a mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this I think -- Greg I have to apologize.
When will you say you're now running -- you have the capability to add 3 unit train a month to Golden Eagle? And you're saying that that will give you 350 000-barrel per day or that I probably catch the number wrong.
So can you just repeat for me? Right.
Yes Paul.
What we said was we can deliver 3 unit trains per month into the Martinez or Golden Eagle refinery as well as some additional manifest cars that we do which allows us to kind of maximize the use of our facilities.
And as a result of that it's 350 000 barrels per month at the present time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
350 000 barrel per month? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And can you tell us that -- what was the Bakken oil you run in Golden Eagle in the third quarter and what is the expectation in the fourth quarter? The Bakken Eagle or Golden Eagle Paul actually it's your conference it's the first time we took our first unit train in with the day of your conference in September.
So it really just started and it's just ramping up.
So I think looking forward that level of crude supply the 350 000 is a good number to use per month.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that I apologize if you already said that when you expect the second cost on asset drop-down to happen? We haven't stated all along.
We said that we would do it in the -- within the first year but we're making very good progress to do this second drop-down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a final one in Carson and can you tell us that -- what is your crude slate? Is there any change already? The crude slate it's only been a few months and so the crude slate has stayed relatively comparable.
We are doing a little bit of crude substitution from what we originally started but nothing material at this point in time as we continue to work through our future crude supply.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a preliminary budget for 2014 given that you have shift some of the money in 2013 for CapEx -- also CapEx? Our capital budget Paul we're less than a month away and we'll be very clear about what we plan to do for 2014.
So let's just wait until we get there and we'll go over the capital budget and turnaround budget as part of our presentation at that point in time.
Next question is from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Let me just do a quick follow-up on the West Coast market commentary.
Greg I mean given the forecast for lower planned turns or and Richmond back online in 2014 do you expect the need for -- to see increased West Coast exports to clear the market or are you more -- are you optimistic on demand or pessimistic on run rate? Any thoughts there would be helpful.
I think relative to exports Dan kind of framed up the exports when he stated that they are actually stronger than they had been for some time there for a while.
Our view is that the exports off the West Coast have limited markets that they can reach relative to like the Gulf Coast.
And so the range of what we've seen on exports off the West Coast we expect stay in that range and we don't see any substantial changes to the exports off of there.
The West Coast market in general if you look at where just using the LA crack spread as kind of a benchmark of where the market's been.
I mean the crack spread has stayed reasonably good in LA so far.
On October it was $14 $15 month-to-date it's a little over $14.
And in that $14 range for crack spreads for LA is kind of not a bad crack spread and that's relative to ANS and we'll see what happens to ANS prices.
That's one of the prior questions asked on a go-forward basis.
So our view is that the fundamentals in California are improving a little bit from what they were earlier from a demand standpoint in that and we'll just see how the market shapes up.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment if you're offline at all in October in Los Angeles? Yes in my comments I did state that we are spending about a little over $100 million on doing turnaround work in the state of California during the fourth quarter.
So we do have downtime in California yes.
Our next question is from the line of Sam Margolin of Cowen and Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> My assistant gone over -- I guess I just want to circle back to that DDU in Mandan because it looks like it really made a pretty significant impact.
Is there anything you could share with respect to contribution or break it out a little bit? The out-performance in that region is pretty stark compared to others who have reported already.
Yes.
I'll let Dan make some comments on that.
Yes.
Maybe the simplest way to do that calculation is look at the gasoline diesel differential on approximately 4 000 to 5 000 barrels a day of swing we made between those 2 products.
And then dependent upon what the market is in your forecast of where it's going to be you can get a good view of what the economics were.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And yet it's all -- I'm assuming it's all sort of local diesel demand just from the other energy batch around the area or...
Yes that's mostly true.
The short in North Dakota on diesel is pretty significant and so -- and we're really quite close to where the demand is.
So we actually sell the vast majority of our diesel out of the Mandan area export very little out of the state.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you and forgive me.
I may have missed this but we've talked about Bakken differentials expanding pretty meaningfully here.
Have you guys made a determination about the expansion at the Vancouver rail terminal? Or are we still thinking about 125 000 barrels a day for the first phase? Yes.
Sam the facility will be permitted to run up to the 280 000 barrels a day or so that we've said and we haven't gone to the market to make access of that available to other parties yet but we'll make a determination of what that capacity will be at the facility when we bring it online.
It's -- there's not a lot of work to do to get it up to the 280 000 barrels a day.
So we'll see what the market demand is and make that decision accordingly.
Our next question is from the line of Ed Westlake of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just some questions on the drop downs.
I think you said $600 million to $700 million more from the Carson acquisition? Was that -- did I hear that correct? Yes you did.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then you've got obviously the potential in the Pacific Northwest as those assets get to a point where they can be dropped down.
But outside of those 2 main sources of drop-downs can you just remind us what else potentially could be dropped down into an MLP over time? We have a fair amount of other assets that we've identified that we will be able to drop down over time and we haven't gone out and put values on those assets now.
But throughout our system actually there's a fair amount of additional drop-down activity Ed that we'll be doing over the next 2 or 3 years.
Research Division</strong> And then I think you may have said this.
But on working capital you feel you've done most of the adjustments in terms of freeing up working capital at this point from a balance sheet perspective? Scott asked the question -- answered the question relative to Carson as we work through the cash conversion cycle and that we feel a lot better now after the initial acquisition and where we've gone as it's kind of stabilized now.
So we feel pretty good pending any changes in crude slate that we may do in the future which could change it again.
Research Division</strong> And so I mean obviously the balance sheet gets de-levered and then you've been pretty singled on dividends and buybacks but...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> But I guess we'll get an update once the balance sheet comes back.
But I mean is there any thought process here to be even more aggressive on the buyback? We'll continue to follow our approach that we've used for the last few years here and that's we'll continue to identify high return capital projects that strengthen our competitive position in the markets and allocate capital to those projects.
We will continue to maintain that competitive dividend relative to our peers.
We will also look to get our -- we've always targeted to be less than 30% leverage in our balance sheet and we'll continue to be focused on that and finally we will then return cash to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a final smaller one.
Just on California.
Obviously a really strong volumes in the third quarter and you've given guidance $480 million to $500 million for Q4.
You mentioned some turnarounds but maybe is there any sort of volume upward bias in terms of the Carson asset that perhaps we're not picking up? Or is it just the turnaround activity that's causing the drop and $5.57 is sort of a more peak type third quarter activity level? Let me take that one.
Third quarter is an example of a full run rate for the California assets and what you're seeing in the fourth quarter is on the rate reduction is turnaround related.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And any de-bottlenecking potential that you've identified since or will that be a subject for the December Analyst Meeting? That will be a subject for the December Analyst Meeting although that would be contrary to what we've discussed before on synergy.
Our view is really driven towards yield optimization cost improvement those opportunities.
Our next question is from the line of Roger Read Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe a couple of things that haven't been pounded on just yet.
Number one exports anything new to report there? And then as you think about maybe bringing more of the Bakken barrels either by manifest delivery now or once you get Port of Vancouver up and running where you think some of those volumes could go? Well the exports just to kind of restate the comments on exports is the exports off the West Coast continue to be strong and they were particularly strong during the third quarter as Dan mentioned earlier.
And like we have always said is that exports are a part of how we manage our system on the West Coast and that we continue to be a participant in the export market and forward -- as we look forward we don't see any real changes in that export activity.
So it looks promising.
Regarding the ability to move Mid-Continent crude oils to the West Coast.
I mean we're continuing to work on doing that.
And throughout our whole refinery system on the West Coast we have the capability to run additional Bakken crude oils probably with the exception of our -- of the Wilmington part of the Los Angeles refinery.
Now that we've combined those -- the 2 facilities into 1 that is a heavy crude processing refinery.
But across the whole West coast system from the Carson facility all the way to Kenai we can run additional Bakken crude oil.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe a slightly more specific way to ask the question.
Earlier you mentioned that you get a definite uplift $3 to $5 a barrel in Anacortes when you run the Bakken barrel which obviously wouldn't...
On yield.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry yield.
So it obviously makes it a more competitive unit.
Are you seeing that in California? And should we think about that as making those units more competitive in terms of export potential? Or just in a sense of fighting off imports into the region and keeping you more consistently profitable? We'll see opportunities to get enhanced yield benefits by running the Bakken crude relative to the other crudes that we run on the West Coast.
That's accurate.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would it be as dramatic as what you see in Anacortes or not given the complexity of those units? Anacortes is probably like the best case but it's going to be in the ballpark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question on the CapEx commentary obviously the deferrals out of '14 lowering the CapEx should we think about as a preliminary thought process '15 has to include that and so we're probably thinking of the old '14 number being more like a reasonable expectation for '15.
I know you're not in the process of giving a firm number but just in general trying to think about future numbers.
Right.
Well first let me just clarify.
We moved capital out of '13 into '14 and the best thing to do is when we come out in December we can get a very clear picture what our capital requirements are for both our sustaining capital which is our regulatory maintenance and also our income capital which will tie in with what we're trying to do in California in that so it will all fit together when we talk about it in December.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Matthew Blair of Macquarie.
On the 3 unit trains a month to Martinez just curious what the limiting factor is here.
And do you have the ability to ramp this up going forward? Limiting factor is just the overall delivery system.
It's a -- we use a third party facility and it's pretty much maxed out of that rate by the way that we have to get the crude into the facility.
So this was a way on an interim basis until we get Port of Vancouver running to deliver Bakken crude oil into Northern California.
Okay.
And then I think as part of the Carson deal you plan to sell some excess real estate.
Did that occur in the third quarter? And what were the proceeds there? Some of that real estate was sold prior to the actual closing because the closing took longer than we had anticipated and there is a small amount of remaining real estate that we haven't determined what we'll do with yet so it's a little bit of both.
Okay.
And then finally just on the Port of Vancouver rail terminal are you in the process of acquiring new railcars for the facility? And I guess could you just give some comments there? Yes.
Our -- I mean we balance our needs for our delivery system with railcars and we have made commitments to receive some additional railcars to meet our requirements both in the Anacortes refinery as well as the Port of Vancouver but we also try to drive a very efficient system.
It's not a matter of having lots and lots of railcars.
It's using the railcars that you have because they add a cost to your system.
So we have a very efficient delivery system.
Our next question is from Mohit Bhardwaj of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a question on Pacific Northwest utilization.
182 000 barrels per day in third quarter is as high as you guys have run in the last 5 years and the guidance that you've given for the fourth quarter is obviously lower than that.
So I just wanted to see what your thought process is over there and what's the maximum you could do and what you would like to run those assets at? Yes let me take that one.
Third quarter was a full utilization of both refineries in the Pacific Northwest.
The fourth quarter reduction acknowledges the demand drop-off in Alaska.
So that's what you're seeing there.
As far as that -- the rate we saw in the third quarter relative to prior quarters and years.
Earlier in the year when we completed the turnaround in Anacortes we removed some constraints in the crude unit itself that allowed us to run the -- return the facility to its full throughput capabilities.
Research Division</strong> And one final one on RINs Greg this is the first time you actually mentioned it.
You've always maintained that you've been pretty well protected as far as RINs are concerned.
Just if you can give an idea what your cost was during this year and as you said it's going to be insignificant in the fourth quarter but just to give us an idea of what it was in 2013? If you look at our overall system there's 3 or 4 things that you have to consider: one which we've said in the past is that as a company from a gasoline standpoint we're about 85% integrated.
So we market about 85% of our gasoline to customers where the blend -- where we're bending.
So from a gasoline exposure standpoint it's relatively limited.
That's the first thing.
The second thing is that we also as we've talked about here 2 or 3 times we export off of the West Coast both gasoline and diesel which also lessens our need for RINs and that export amount for us has been relatively stable over the last years and we expect it to stay the same way so that lessens it.
And really the final thing is that we went into 2013 with a long position in RINs which helped us out.
So from an overall cost standpoint it wasn't an impact for Tesoro for 2013 because of the way we positioned our business.
We have a question from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Doug brought up the question earlier on Mid-Continent product pricing whether or not it's tied to Brent or LLS.
It appears recent product prices in the Mid-Continent have been more highly correlated with LLS than with Brent.
Do you view that as a temporary situation or a seasonal situation? How do you think about that? Seasonal at the present time Jeff.
I mean we -- particularly as we look at the markets in that and what we see happening is with the data that's available to us it's just been seasonal so far.
But we'll have to stay -- monitor and see what happens as we go forward.
But our belief has always been that product prices would trade off of Brent or relative -- I mean trade relative to Brent.
Research Division</strong> Global prices? Yes.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your question-and-answer session.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect your lines.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 4 2013 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Juliann and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full-year 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause the results to differ from our expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and I will go over the details of the results and provide guidance then Greg will review 2013 and offer some comments on 2014 and beyond.
Yesterday we reported for the full year 2013 net income from continuing operations of $392 million or $2.85 per diluted share versus $876 million or $6.20 per diluted share for the full year of 2012.
Excluding special items for the full year 2013 the company earned net income from continuing operations of $386 million or $2.81 per diluted share versus an adjusted net income from continuing operations of $922 million or $6.52 per diluted share for the full year 2012.
For the full year 2013 the results from discontinued operations included income of $20 million from our divested Hawaii business versus a loss of $133 million for the full year 2012.
The fourth quarter 2013 results include after tax expense of $0.07 per diluted share related integration cost associated with the completion of our 2013 acquisitions.
For the fourth quarter we reported a net loss from continuing operations of $4 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
Excluding special items net earnings from continuing operations were $5 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
That compares to net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter last year of $193 million or $1.38 per diluted share excluding special items.
Before I begin to go through the details of our earnings I want to take a minute to describe some changes in how we will be reporting results going forward.
With the rapid growth of Tesoro Logistics over the last few years the partnership is now of such a size that Tesoro will begin reporting Tesoro Logistics as a standalone operating segment within our results.
Previously Tesoro Logistics operating results were consolidated into our refining segment.
The result would be a lower reported gross margin in the refining segment though total results will be unaffected by the change.
As part of the consolidation process cost incurred in the refining segment for transportation and term lease services provided by TLLP were offset by the corresponding revenues to TLLP.
This change may require you to modify your models and how you look at the historical capture rates and other aspects of our financials.
I encourage you work closely with our investor relations department to understand these changes.
We have also added supplemental material on our website at tsocorp.com so you can compare previously reported historical information with the revised financial disclosure.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial statements will be presented on the new basis and will include as usual comparative results to 2012 and 2011.
Despite a disappointing headline number our fourth quarter results on a region-by-region basis were inline with what we expected with some regions seeing very strong capture rates.
Fourth quarter 2013 results were negatively impacted by very weak retail marketing margins in December and the valuation of a portion of our foreign crude oil inventory for our California refining system.
Excluding that inventory impact our California capture rate was in line with expectations especially when you consider the turnaround activity that occurred in the quarter.
Beyond that it's worth noting that our fourth quarter results also include $40 million in variable stock-based compensation expense related to a $15 run up in our share price during the quarter.
The Tesoro Index in the fourth quarter averaged $7.65 per barrel down over $4.75 per barrel relative to a year ago and down about $0.75 per barrel compared to the third quarter of this year.
The company's realized gross margin was $9.45 per barrel for the fourth quarter up slightly from the $8.50 per barrel reported for the third quarter.
Despite the lower Tesoro Index in the fourth quarter the company realized a higher gross margin as Mid-Continent and Canadian crude oil discounts to WTI favorably impacted capture rate in the Pacific Northwest and the Mid-Continent regions.
In fact the Pacific Northwest had a gross refining margin of $10.94 per barrel which was $4.60 over the Index reflecting the best dollar per barrel capture rate over the Index in the last three years.
And as I said on the West Coast adjusted for the foreign inventory valuation impact California's capture rate was inline with our expectation after factoring in the heavy turnaround work done in the first half of the quarter.
For the quarter we reported total throughput of 786 000 barrels per day or 92% utilization.
The lower throughput relative to the third quarter was primarily due to California turnaround activity which drove total company manufacturing cost per barrel up to $5.39 per barrel in the fourth quarter an increase of $0.63 per barrel from the third quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up over 120% year-over-year and retail marketing margins were down relative to the same period last year reflecting the addition of 835 high-volume ARCO retail stations as part of the June 1 Los Angeles acquisition.
Same store fuel sales during the fourth quarter and the full year 2013 were up about 2% versus each of the prior periods.
Retail fuel margins in the fourth quarter were $0.09 per gallon down $0.03 per gallon relative to the third quarter.
Our RINs cost were immaterial during the fourth quarter and we expect those costs to again be immaterial in the first quarter.
Capital spending for the full year of 2013 was $558 million which includes $79 million of Tesoro Logistics self-funded capital spend.
Consistent with guidance given at our annual analyst conference in December the company currently expects full year 2014 capital spending of approximately $670 million excluding Tesoro Logistics capital spending of approximately $160 million.
Turnaround expenditures for 2013 were $360 million and the company expects full year 2014 turnaround expenses to be about $205 million.
We do have some minor turnaround activity scheduled in the first quarter the majority of which is at our California refinery.
We repurchased $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the fourth quarter bringing total purchases under the program to $500 million or half of the $1 billion authorized.
For the full year 2013 we repurchased a total of 8.3 million shares.
This represents nearly 6% of the shares that were outstanding at the end of 2012.
Our corporate and unallocated cost for the fourth quarter of 2013 on a pretax basis were $40 million excluding $5 million in corporate depreciation $40 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $15 million of integration costs.
As of the end of 2013 we have completed the majority of integration work related to the new asset and don’t expect to report additional integration cost going forward.
We incurred total integration cost of $62 million for 2013.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of over $1.2 billion a use of $250 million for the quarter.
Sources of cash during the quarter included adjusted EBITDA of about $180 million changes in working capital of $190 million and proceeds from TLLP debt and equity offerings of about $560 million.
Uses of cash included capital and turnaround spending of about $245 million debt repayments of $800 million shareholder distributions and share buybacks of about $150 million and cash interest and taxes of about $40 million.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had excess revolving credit capacity of over $2.2 billion on the corporate revolver and the full $575 million was available to us on the TLLP revolver.
During the fourth quarter the company repaid $800 million of the $1.2 billion in borrowings related to the Los Angeles acquisition.
At the end of the fourth quarter total debt outstanding was $2.8 billion Tesoro Corporation's debt totaled just under $1.7 billion and Tesoro Logistics debt totaled about $1.2 billion.
Tesoro's total debt to total cap excluding TLLP at the end of the fourth quarter was 28%.
Turning to the first quarter and guidance.
We saw very attractive crude oil differentials across our region during the fourth quarter and while not as high as they have been we still expect to benefit from wider crude oil differentials as we move into the first quarter of this year.
In addition the later part of 2013 saw low turnaround activity and high refinery utilization on the West Coast.
As we move into the first and second quarters of this year we expect to see higher plant turnaround and maintenance activity on the West Coast which we expect will result in a stronger margin environment.
And in fact we are starting to see that with California crack spreads recently widening to $13 to $15 per barrel and in fact today are over $16.50 a barrel.
For specific guidance we estimate throughput to be in thousands in barrels per day.
500 to 520 in the California region 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 to 130 in the Mid-con.
Manufacturing cost guidance for this quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows.
$6.50 to $6.75 in the California region $4.05 to $4.30 in the Pacific Northwest and $3.75 to $4 per barrel in the Midcontinent region.
Note that while guidance for manufacturing cost per barrel in the California region is above what you would typically expect it's been impacted by higher natural gas price expectation and lower turnaround related throughput during the quarter.
Normalized for those two things our guidance would be in the $5.75 to $6 per barrel range.
Our depreciation for refining is expected to be $105 million.
This excludes depreciation of $15 million for Tesoro Logistics as this segment will be reported separately.
Additional first quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $60 million and interest expense before interest income of about $44 million.
And with that I will turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Scott.
As I look back over 2013 it was a year of important strategic accomplishments for the company.
We have created a strong foundation by focusing on our strategic priority and the company is well positioned to create significant value.
We have delivered on several key initiatives in 2013 that I want to take a moment to reflect upon.
The first and the largest is the completion of the Los Angles acquisition creating a platform to create a world scale refining and marketing complex on the West Coast.
As a part of the Los Angeles acquisition we completed the sale of $1.3 billion of assets to Tesoro Logistics positioning the partnership as a premier logistics provider in the high demand Southern California market.
In Salt Lake City we completed the first stage of the conversion project in the second quarter and have increased our ability to throughput cost advantaged waxy crude oil Uinta basin to nearly 17 000 barrels per day.
In Mandan we completed the expansion of the DDU project in the second quarter and have increased not just our diesel yields but total throughput capacity to 71 000 barrels per day.
Tesoro Logistics completed the acquisition of Northwest Products system adding another key strategic asset to its portfolio.
We introduced the Exxon and Mobil brands into our retail portfolio which enables us to increase our integration where we did not have a premium brand to offer our customers.
We completed the sale of our Hawaii business which was a strategic exit from a low returning asset.
This allowed us to reallocate $325 million of capital employed into higher return and more strategic assets.
As evident through all that we have accomplished we continue to drive significant value from our existing asset base and the optimization of our portfolio.
We continuously look for and identify new ways to grow the value of our business.
These activities above truly reflect our commitment to our strategic priority and our focus on maintaining and improving the competitive position of the company.
We are also committed to drive continual improvements in our safety and environmental performance.
As I look out into 2014 and beyond the company remains focused on delivering the distinctive performance objective we laid out at the analyst and investor day in December.
The first is to capture the significantly improved California synergies.
We have accelerated the pace of delivery and now expect to achieve the originally estimated improvement of $215 million in the second full year.
The update synergy estimates are now $430 million to $490 million of EBITDA by 2017 as we complete the full integration of the two facilities.
We are very pleased with the operating performance of the Los Angeles refinery and the integration continues to go extremely well.
The second area is our continued focus on enhancing our gross margin.
We expect our efforts already completed and those underway will add $140 million to $160 million of annual incremental EBITDA in 2014.
Our primary focus is to increase our capacity to run advantaged crude oil throughout our system.
Our joint venture with Savage to build a 300 000 barrel per day rail offloading facility at the Port of Vancouver Washington is in the permitting phase with applications for environmental permits being submitted in August.
We continue to expect our facilities to be up and operational sometime late this year or early in 2015 and intend to offer it for sale to Tesoro Logistics.
In Salt Lake City with phase one complete we expect run an average of 17 000 barrels per day of cost advantaged waxy crude oil from the Uinta Basin going forward.
Phase 2 of this project is expected to be completed at the end of the first quarter or the beginning of the second quarter of next year taking total runs of the cost advantaged waxy crude to 22 000 barrels per day.
The third area is our continued improvement of the base business.
Our efforts to lower cost in California have delivered highly favorable results as 2013 manufacturing costs were $5.86 per barrel compared to $6.30 in 2012 and $7.54 in 2010.
We still see significant opportunities that exist across the system to continue improving our cost structure while maintaining safe and reliable operations.
The fourth area is our focused effort to grow our logistics business.
In December of 2013 we completed the second sale to TLLP of logistics assets that we acquired from the Los Angles acquisition bringing total sale proceeds to almost $1.3 billion.
2014 will also be the year that TLLP will begin to experience some significant organic growth which is focused around third party revenue with significant capital being spend on organic growth.
As I reflect on the final area of financial discipline I will reiterate some of the highlights.
We ended the year with $1.2 billion in cash and a debt to cap below 28% excluding TLLP even after two major acquisitions.
With everything that we deleveraged his year we did not lose focus on returning cash to shareholders.
We repurchased over $445 million of equity paid out over $120 million of dividend and paid nearly $60 million in distributions from TLLP.
With all of the portfolio changes during the year we clearly demonstrated our determination to maintain financial discipline.
We remain focused on our strategic priority of financial discipline and will continue to prioritize investing in high return capital projects returning cash to shareholders via a strong and competitive dividend buying back shares and deleveraging our balance sheet.
And now we will take questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Greg a couple of things if I may.
First of all the retail margins were weak looks like at least [indiscernible]` numbers are a big part of the mess this quarter.
Can you just talk about the dynamics there? And in the refining capture rate I guess as we look at the impact of the downtime that you incurred in the fourth quarter is there any way to quantify the opportunity cost? And then I've got a follow up please.
Yes thanks Doug.
The first question around retail.
What happened in retail in December in California for about two-thirds of the month there was an inversion in the branded retail price relative to the spot market.
And as a result branded retail prices were below the spot market which resulted in a pretty significant negative impact in retail margins.
That situation has now changed and we are back to normal conditions.
But it had a pretty big impact in December.
The second question on California because our results in Southern California were not very good during the quarter.
And I think there are three points to make there.
One is that as Scott mentioned just briefly here that -- now that we report Tesoro Logistics as a separate reporting segment we have backed out those costs out of our capture rate for California which will take lower our capture rate in California versus the historical captures by around $0.50 to $0.60 a barrel.
So that will lower that capture rate as we report that separately because it was all reported in refining before that.
The second thing is we had a major turnaround in our LA refinery during the fourth quarter.
And that turnaround actually occurred when the crack spreads like the crack spread was in about the $14.25 range.
We came back up in December when the crack spread was about $8.50 a barrel and it has a pretty negative impact on our capture rate there.
And as Scott also mentioned we source barrels for our California system in Panama.
We store and move it across the canal by the pipeline.
And we have those barrels sitting there and those are accounted for on a FIFO basis.
And we had a negative impact with the inventory we held in December going into January which will reverse it was a timing impact.
And that really accounts for the results in California.
Good.
Greg are you able to quantify I don’t know if you have -- I think I missed this in the prepared remarks if you did that.
Can you quantify the impact of the inventory hit in the fourth quarter? Yes.
The inventory hit was probably like $0.30 to $0.35 a barrel on the capture rate.
So about $8 million off the top? And then you have the -- pardon go ahead? About $8 million to $10 million after tax -- sorry $8 million to $10 million just after tax it sounds like? Yes.
About $15 million or so on a pretax basis Doug.
Okay.
And my follow-up just very quickly.
On the rail project obviously there is a lot of chatter about the escalation or at least the apparent escalation in the instance and what that might mean for permitting on a go forward basis.
Can you just talk about how you feel that Tesoro is positioned as it relates to current rail legislation the quality of your railcars and basically your ability to get this thing done.
and I will leave it there? Thanks.
Yes.
So first we are very confident that continuing through the process that the State of Washington has to permit the facility that we will be able to work our way through that and receive a permit for the facility.
However because of like you said with the rail incidence and that does create additional public interaction in that that we will have to just work our way through as we go through that.
But it's a very defined process and we feel good about working through that.
The second thing is the Tesoro rail fleet really has -- 90% of our railcars meet the highest standards that are out there today and we are actually replacing the rest of our rail fleet the other 10% which will be done by mid-year.
So our cars will meet the requirements that are out there today for the safety standards.
And so we feel good about that.
As a company we have also put in emergency response procedures to respond to an incident even though it's not the company's responsibility when it's in transit.
But we can response within two hours of any incident along the delivery of crude from North Dakota to Washington and we had had that in place now for probably over a year to do that.
So the final thing is we are actively engaged with helping develop new standards in that that could improve the safety performance of the railcars.
But one of the fundamental issues is the operation of the railroads because the issues have been dealing with the derailments and not of the railcars.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
It's pretty incredible to think you have got $1.2 billion of cash on the balance sheet after everything you did last year.
So I guess the question around you have also got as you said at the analyst day about $1.5 billion in cash from future sort of TLLP sales over the next three or four years.
So can you just remind us what think the minimum cash levels are and maybe talk a little bit high level that do you prefer to keep cash on the balance sheet for strategic acquisition or are you sort of more focused on the equity value through continued buybacks.
Yes our focus Ed is to be able to -- we think we need to maintain around $600 million to $800 million of cash just to meet the flow of really commercial opportunities as we source crude oil in that for our system in the company.
And so our priority for our cash remains to focus on delivering high return capital projects which we have a number of those this year and also a lot of work going on to identify other opportunities.
That’s the first thing.
The second thing is we will continue to maintain our competitive dividend and then as Scott mentioned we are only halfway through our stock repurchase program.
So we have repurchased $500 million of the $1 billion authorized by our board to repurchase.
And so we will continue to repurchase stock.
And then as the year unfolds we will probably continue to delever our balance sheet a little bit as a result primarily of the financing that we put in place for the acquisition of Southern California assets.
Quite clear.
And then just on the performance improvement objectives.
Again just from your slide for the analyst day something like $370 million to $430 million of annual EBITDA improvement.
Maybe if you could talk a little bit about maybe how much you saw of that already in the fourth quarter of '13.
Maybe talk a little bit to the timing of how you see that delivery through the quarters in '14? Is it just ratable or is it backend loaded? I am just trying to get a sense of where you are against your 2014 plans? I appreciate it's only February.
So one of the things that I will just reiterate that we will as the year goes on here will provide feedback on how we are performing relative to those commitments that we made in December to do that.
So up until the end of the year only a very small portion of that amount has been delivered and so not a significant amount yet.
But it's skewed a little bit more towards the second half of the year just because of the implementation of some of those projects.
And so we will see it start to accelerate in the second half of this year as we complete the work that we are doing on both the synergies and some of the crude delivery work in that to capture that value that you just identified Ed.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Kessler Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please proceed.
Couple of questions about California imports.
One is this inventory valuation effect just trying to dig in whether that’s a one off or structural.
It sounds like sats relates to the Panama pipeline effects.
But I am wondering if there is anything new about how you source crude now maybe with Carson in the mix.
Are you carrying more say crude on the water for example that’s subject to price finalization risk.
And then also related to the imports to California.
Some Gulf Coast refiners have talked about some redirection of medium and heavy barrels out of the Gulf Coast into the West coast and I am just curious if you are seeing any of that extra volume arrive in your markets.
So the first question on the inventory valuation that hit us in the fourth quarter.
That is a onetime impact and we expect it to come back in the first quarter because we do source the barrels in Panama.
So there is no fundamental change there.
There are some changes in where we are looking at bringing in some barrels from Mexico that traditionally would have gone into the Gulf Coast into the West Coast system.
So that is something that’s early on.
It hasn’t been put in place yet but there is some potential opportunity there to do that.
Other than that the normal crude supply patterns into the West Coast are pretty much staying in place and one of the advantages is that ANS continues to price very favorably.
So our supply of ANS into California works extremely well.
How are you seeing the price for those Mexican barrels relative to the Gulf Coast? It's too early Robert.
We are just in the early stages and we will just see how that unfolds as we go through that process to see if we can supply from Mexico.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Looks pretty cold in San Antonio today.
Maybe a follow up question on the West Coast capture rates.
So I understand the TLLP portion you also mentioned LA turnarounds.
Can you share more detail on units or duration I presume it was on plan but just to help understand how that element makes [indiscernible] capture a bit more of an outlier from an operational point of view.
Yes the turnaround as Scott mentioned was in the early part of the quarter when the crack spreads were high news.
So if you look at our California throughput fourth quarter versus third quarter we were down about 80 00 barrels a day of crude capacity which is around the Los Angeles refinery and so it impacted a number of different units at the refinery.
Unfortunately it was also delayed some outside of what we had planned to do and that had a negative impact also.
Yes.
And another follow-up on a comment that you just made I know it's early with regard to Mexican barrels moving west.
I mean just any color on timing there.
Is that related to terminal construction or what we are working of here with regard to what would Pemex maybe doing there.
No.
It would just be commercial negotiations and seeing how we can work through range and supply on that.
So it could be in the short term.
Something within 2014 you are saying? Possibly.
That’s interesting.
And then I guess lastly from me what you are seeing in Bakken field pricing.
I know [indiscernible] not really announced but is your field pricing any better? And I guess I presume that would be like many things today supply related due to weather.
Any comments would be helpful.
Thanks.
If you look at Bakken relative to Brent Bakken so far has been about $16 under Brent for the first quarter which is a little bit weaker than what it was in the fourth quarter of last year.
But other than that Bakken prices are holding up and continue to be very attractive.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Please proceed.
Greg can you tell us what is the Carson crude slate in the fourth quarter and what you may expect will be changed in 2014? Paul the Carson crude slate hasn’t changed a lot.
I mean we continue to source crudes in from Iraq also from ANS crude primarily and then some other little -- some other crude.
But that’s staying in place.
Our focus really as we said previously is to really bring midcontinent crudes into the Port of Vancouver to be able to supply our entire West Coast system wherever we get the greatest value for those.
And as we have said that will happen hopefully by the later part of this year early part of 2015.
Right.
But before that it seems that you will have difficulty to get more [indiscernible] crude into California to your terminal with Savage come on stream sometime next year.
In the mean time for this year is there any opportunity like what you have done with the rest of your system that you can really phase out ANS which is still relatively expensive? No we are just working on some different opportunities Paul but nothing significant at this point in time really.
And in your Anacortes rail permit that's up to 50 000 barrel per day.
But I think your terminal is actually of the size I presume you can run for 60 000 70 000 barrel per day.
Any plan to issue an application for a higher permit? You are right Paul.
The terminal would have some additional capacity and it is permitted 50 000 barrels per day and at this stage we are working through our whole permitting process for the State of Washington to get -- we have to balance it out with what we are trying to do at the Port of Vancouver.
So we are more focused on the Port of Vancouver right now.
Okay.
And on the port of Vancouver you're saying that you're still pretty confident you will be able to go through the process and receive the application? Where are we or what is the next step or any date or any event in the timeline we should be watching out? I think if you look we filed the permit in August of 2013 and the process is designed to take about one year before they give approval or turn down the permit I guess.
But it takes about one year.
Along that one year timeframe there are many steps that you do to get public comment and filing all of the environmental permits in that.
They are really -- there won't be milestones that are visible to anyone as we walk our way through that to get to the final permit.
But there is a tremendous amount of work that goes on to position the successful gaining of the permit there that we will see.
But there won't be any significant things that you will see to know whether it's going to happen or not.
A final one.
I don't know whether it's a fair comparison I understand why California may end up that the margin capture rate was weak because of the turnaround.
In your mid-con system seems to me you're running pretty flat out without any problem.
And if we look at two of your competitors that they have reports Valero and Phillips 66 in their mid-con or their middle corridor system they have a tremendous improvement sequentially from the third to the fourth quarter.
And if we're looking at that even after we adjust for the TLLP you didn't really have the improvement.
So the question is that is there anything specific to your system why you have not been able to capture the same kind of improvement as your competitor in this quarter? You know Paul I haven't looked at the two companies you are talking about.
I don’t study their results that way to see what they did quarter-to-quarter.
So relative to their performance I can't comment on that.
From our standpoint our run rate and how we are pricing our crude oil and everything nothing has changed and it's been performing extremely well.
But I don’t know on a relative basis I just can't answer that question.
So there's nothing that you can cite maybe somewhat [indiscernible] extraordinary happened in the fourth quarter for you in the mid-con system? No.
There is not -- I mean the system other than little bit of an operating problem when we lost power in Salt Lake City for a short period of time but we are running strong and the crude's pricing in attractively.
So I don’t know I just don’t know how to compare to the other two companies.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Please proceed.
My question is with regard to product exports out of the West Coast.
Some of the tanker data indicated an increased in product exports out of the West Coast in the second half of '13 and some further increases early this year.
Would you share your views on West Coast product export activity? What do you think the major drivers are? Are they sustainable or transitory? Are they being impacted by Pacific Basin refining rationalization? Could you help me with that topic? Yes.
It's a good point Jeff.
Our view is is that for the 2013 total West Coast product exports were about 160 000 barrels a day with a period of time where they peaked at about 240 000 barrels a day.
And you are exactly right as to your comment about going to the Pacific.
We did observe that during the later part of 2013 that cargos of refined products were sent to Asia.
We believe it went to places like Australia New Zealand and Singapore which is something that hasn’t happened very often.
So that was a change from what we have seen.
But the exports continue to be strong off of the West Coast.
The normal flow of products off the West Coast into Mexico and into the West Coast of South America is somewhat limited so we don’t see tremendous upside growth in that.
However depending upon how the arbitrage opens up to the countries that I mentioned that could provide some upside opportunity on a go forward basis.
Good.
Thank you.
Secondly in your press release you talked about the turnaround expenses for the full year 2013 were at $360 million and '14 $205 million.
Those numbers are lower than what was in the December analyst day presentation.
And I wonder if they were apples to apples comparison and you've lowered turnaround expenditures or if perhaps there were other items that were included in the December numbers? You are exactly right Jeff.
In our December number we had two items in there in what we call turnaround.
We had turnaround in some marketing costs that are deferred marketing costs in support of our dealer network in California.
So the number that Scott provided this morning the projection of $205 million for 2014 is just refining turnaround expense.
There are no changes to our plans regarding turnaround.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler Imperial Capital.
Please proceed.
My question is in regards to -- my understanding is that Koch Industries is going to end production in their Flint Hills refinery in Alaska of gasoline and jet fuel as they move into the second quarter.
Are there opportunities for you in that and do you think that that facility will I know that it had a number of issues over the last several years but what opportunities do you think if there are any for you as a result of that? Yes.
We are aware that Flint Hills has announced that they will be shutting down their refinery in Alaska.
Tesoro and Flint Hills have had a long term supply relationship where we supply some products to Flint Hills to meet their requirements in the State of Alaska and that’s worked out extremely well.
We suspect that on a go-forward basis that we will have to be able to continue that relationship and meet their supply requirements in Alaska as they go through their process to shut the refinery down.
So it does have some opportunity.
So there is possible opportunity that you could be able to run that facility a little bit harder? Our Kenai facility? Yes.
That could be.
That is very likely.
And how about any update on the potential crude pipeline to that facility? Yes we are in the final stages.
We will make a decision here on the pipeline to move crude oil in Cook Inlet across into the Kenai.
That project is progressing well and we will probably be able to report more fully on that sometime in the second half of 2014.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow Macquarie Capital.
Please proceed.
I want to ask you about California the product yield out there.
The light product yields didn't seem to improve in 2013 even with the addition of Carson which I think you previously mentioned that actually had higher yields than your existing system previous system.
Can you talk about what we can expect on the yields out of the system out there in 2014? You know I think I will have to look at that more closely.
Our yields aren't anything different than we have said.
Only as they were impacted by very extensive turnaround activity that we had in California.
Because most of the -- we had a significant turnaround activity in 2013.
But our projections on yields Chi aren't any different and we are driving to change our yield structure to be able to produce more diesel fuel.
But that’s going to take us a little bit of time.
But I actually don’t have an explanation of what you are looking at to see any difference in yields other than as a result of turnaround activity.
But you are expecting higher diesel with Carson...? Yes.
All things being equal on operations? Right.
Okay.
I guess in sort of follow-up on Ann's question there is another change coming in industry capacity in the North Dakota region.
There is a new refinery being built there.
Can you talk about the potential change to market dynamics when that plant does come online? Yes.
It's our understanding that that facility will produce diesel fuel to meet the strong demand in North Dakota for diesel fuel as a result of all the drilling activity.
So that area -- if you just look at that the Bakken area in that that area is significantly short of diesel fuel.
Our estimates are that it's short somewhere between 40 000 to 60 000 barrels a day of diesel fuel.
And partly that’s why we changed our yields at the refinery in that.
But that production when it comes online should be able to meet some of that supply of diesel fuel relative to the requirements for the drilling activity.
But you still figure...
I think it's like about 20 000 barrels a day or so [indiscernible] to make.
So there is a significant shortage in that area for that.
Okay.
So you still think it's going to be a short market then going forward even with the addition? Yes.
Yes.
We don’t see any changes in the drilling activity in that so we don’t see any changes there.
Okay.
And any updates on the Uinta pipeline project? Still in design and engineering work.
We are working with the state for permitting in that but it will be sometime later this year as we progress that development.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Just a couple of questions.
On the projected synergies for this year California the $205 million EBITDA.
I think you've mentioned some of this before but can you just remind us what's the breakdown of that $205 million in terms of operating costs I guess product improvement and crude acquisition costs? Just to kind of give us an expectation of what we should look for during the course of the year.
Yes Faisel you are right.
The breakdown of those synergies were in buckets.
One was feedstock supply some production efficiencies the third was around the distribution system and some operating cost.
Unfortunately I don’t have those numbers available with me right now.
I will have to go back.
I think they were -- well we have them laid out in our analyst presentation very clearly on the '14 and '15 numbers.
I don’t have them handy.
But if you go back to our analyst presentation they are clearly spelled out.
Okay.
I'll take a look at that.
And they haven't changed.
So you're saying it will be back-end loaded so you'll see it in operating costs and in the margin number during the course of the year? Yes as we bring out -- everything is in progress in that.
It will be more towards the second half of 2014.
That’s correct.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
And then just on the looking at the gasoline price in the West Coast in the fourth quarter with ANS trading kind of below Brent what's your view on whether gas in the West Coast should trade off of ANS or whether it should trade off of global benchmarks? How much risk is there that as more of the domestic crude floods the West Coast that some of the gasoline pricing starts to mark itself off of an ANS or some other marker versus sort of an international marker? Yes.
We have not seen any real fundamental changes which say that the price of gasoline was going to priced any differently than it has to price off of Brent.
So we see that holding up.
Our view is which has always been is that like you see LA crack spread as a reference point which over the last few years has been around $14.50 a barrel or so.
We see only a little bit of improvement in the LA crack spread primarily with the weakening of ANS differentials and we expect to be able -- we think that that will be retained without passing it on in the marketplace just looking at the overall supply demand.
Okay.
Got it.
And I understand you guys are certainly moving forward with your plans to move crude to the Vancouver facility.
But I'm wondering are you also contemplating any plans to move crude through these hybrid pipeline rail systems from the east to the west.
Whether it's a southern trails sort of system or something like it or similar? I know the Freedom pipeline that Kinder was proposing was a little bit oversized.
And I'm wondering if you're considering any other options to move any sort of pipeline options to move crude into the state? You know we are looking at different things but we don’t see anything that is that encouraging at this point in time to be able to do that.
There is a possibility on a opportunistic basis you could move crude from the Permian in that by rail into California which we have taken some very small amount of that but we don’t see from a pipeline standpoint today.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeida and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions and the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
I will review the earnings release and some highlights of our results and then provide guidance before handing the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported first quarter 2014 net income from continuing operations of $78 million or $0.58 per diluted share compared to $93 million or $0.67 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
Results include a onetime after-tax expense of $0.14 per diluted share related to the redemption of Tesoro's 9 3/4% senior notes due in 2019.
Results also include a onetime gain of $0.02 per diluted share from the sale of the Tesoro Logistics Boise Idaho terminal.
Excluding these special items the company reported net income from continuing operations of $95 million or $0.71 per diluted share compared to net income from continuing operations of $103 million or $0.74 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
Despite a challenging margin environment we are making solid progress on delivering the earnings improvements we have targeted for this year.
That progress is reflected in these results and our strong first quarter margin capture rate.
The Tesoro Index was $8.86 per barrel for the first quarter with a realized gross margin of $10.80 per barrel or 122% capture of the Tesoro Index.
A year ago the Tesoro Index was $12.33 per barrel for the quarter with a realized gross margin of $14.14 per barrel or 115% capture of the Tesoro Index.
Total refining throughput was 817 000 barrels per day or 96% utilization.
Higher natural gas prices increased manufacturing cost to $5.61 per barrel an increase of $0.22 per barrel from the last quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes were higher by about 128% year-over-year while retail marketing margins were down relative to the same period last year reflecting the addition of the higher volume lower margin ARCO retail stations as part of the Los Angeles acquisition.
Same-store fuel sales were higher by almost 0.5% versus the first quarter of last year.
Retail fuel margins during the quarter were $0.09 per gallon flat relative to the fourth quarter of last year.
Capital spending was $77 million for Tesoro and $26 million for Tesoro Logistics.
We still anticipated full year 2014 capital spending of about $670 million excluding Tesoro Logistics capital spending of about $160 million.
Turnaround spending was $55 million in the first quarter.
The company continues to expect full year 2014 turnaround expenditures of $205 million.
We repurchased $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the quarter.
Through the end of April we have repurchased an additional $35 million worth of shares.
This brings total purchases under the $1 billion authorization to $635 million.
Since we began repurchasing shares at the beginning of 2012 we repurchased over 14.5 million shares which represents about 10% of the total outstanding shares in 2012.
Our corporate and unallocated costs on a pre-tax basis were $47 million excluding $3 million in corporate depreciation and a benefit of $18 million for non-cash variable stock-based compensation.
This is lower than the original guidance of $60 million primarily as a result of expenses that are expected to be incurred later in 2014.
We ended the quarter with the cash balance of about $800 million.
Sources of cash included adjusted EBITDA of about $370 million.
Uses of cash include changes in working capital and other of about $450 million; capital and turnaround spending of about $160 million; shareholder distributions buybacks and financing costs of about $180 million; and cash and interest -- cash interest and taxes of about $20 million.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of about $2.2 billion on the corporate revolver and $575 million on the Tesoro Logistics LP revolver.
Total debt outstanding was $2.8 billion.
Tesoro Corporation's debt was just under $1.7 billion and Tesoro Logistics' debt was about $1.2 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to total capitalization ratio was 28% at the end of the quarter.
During the quarter we also completed the refinancing of our 9 3/4% senior notes which were due in 2019.
The new 5 1/8% senior notes due in 2024 extend our debt maturities and save the company about $14 million in interest expense payments annually.
The new notes include investment-grade covenants reflecting the market's appreciation for the strength of our financial position.
Turning to that second quarter guidance.
The West Coast market is currently undergoing normal maintenance activities and some refineries have also experienced extended and unplanned downtime.
This is driving inventory levels to near 5-year lows for this time of year.
As a result of these market dynamics we have seen a significant increase in West Coast margins quarter-to-date.
During the month of April Tesoro had both planned and unplanned maintenance at our California refineries that we expect may impact yields and capture rates for the second quarter.
This maintenance is reflected in the following guidance: We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 505 000 to 525 000 barrels per day in the California region; 165 000 to 175 000 in the Pacific Northwest; and 120 000 to 130 000 in the Mid-Con.
We expect manufacturing costs in dollars per barrel to be $6.50 to $6.75 per barrel in the California region; $4.50 to $4.75 in the Pacific Northwest; and $4.05 to $4.30 in the Mid-Con region.
Depreciation for Tesoro refinery is expected to be $105 million and $16 million for Tesoro Logistics.
Additional guidance items included -- or include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $60 million and interest expense before interest income of $41 million.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Thank you Scott.
We are pleased with our progress towards achieving the 5 distinctive performance objectives we discussed with you at our Analyst Conference in December mainly delivering California synergies; enhancing gross margins; improving the base; growing logistics; and maintaining financial discipline.
Let me update you on some of the key projects that underpin these objectives.
We are making good progress on delivering the expected synergies from the California acquisition.
Let me give you 3 clear examples of some of the opportunities that we've realized to date.
We were able to debottleneck the Front Hill recovery unit and increase production capacity by 10 tons per day.
This modification allows us to increase crude flexibility and to finally encapture further synergy.
We optimized our West Coast burrough suite to move efficiently more feedstock and products and improved overall transportation economics.
And during the first quarter turnaround of Los Angeles we were able to avoid the stress [indiscernible] by optimizing feedstock across the Los Angeles facility generating significant synergies.
Meanwhile we are advancing through the engineering phase of the project the shut down of Wilmington's cat cracker and increase the production flexibility at the Los Angeles refinery.
We anticipate starting the permitting process in the third quarter of this year and expect to complete the project in early 2017.
Turning to our initiatives to enhance gross margin.
We are progressing to Port of Vancouver's permit process with Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Committee or EFSEC.
The joint venture has now completed in excess of 80% of the design and engineering work required for the facility.
The total cost for the 360 000-barrel-per-day facility is now expected to be between $150 million and $190 million split 50-50 between the JV partners.
The permitting process is taking longer than we have originally expected.
Nevertheless we expect to receive permit and begin construction in late 2014 or early 2015.
We expect initial volumes to begin moving to its facilities by mid-2015 and expect the full project to be completed about 12 months after construction begins.
Phase II at the Salt Lake City waxy crude oil project is expected to be completed in spring of 2015 bringing total runs of the cost advantage waxy crude to 22 000 to 24 000 barrels per day from today's 17 000 barrels per day.
We have recently revised our final cost estimates for this project and are increasing capital spending by about $16 million primarily related to expanding the gas plant and constructing truck unloading racks.
We now expect total spending on the project to be $335 million with no change in the total projected EBITDA of $100 million per year.
We expect returns on this project to be in the 20% to 25% range.
Further to enhancing the gross margin we expect to close on the acquisition of 15 retail stations in the Salt Lake City area next month.
We have also reasonably extended our right to use the Exxon and Mobil brands to include the states of Utah Arizona and Nevada and plan on rebranding these stations under this new agreement.
Following the announcement by Flint Hills that they will be shutting down their North Pole Alaska refinery we extended and expanded our existing long-term supply agreement to provide finished product to Flint Hills in Alaska.
As a result we expect to improve our base business with high refinery utilization lower cost of barrel and increased margin capture at our Kenai Alaska refinery.
We also continued to make progress on proactively replacing our older crude oil rail fleet and expect to have 100% of our fleet compliance with a post-2011 CPC 1232-design specification by mid-2014.
On the logistics side of the business TLLP had an excellent quarter and operations are running well.
They have made substantial progress on their first open season to expand the High Plains system and more recently commenced another open season to expand the gathering system around Dunn County.
TLLP expects both expansion to deliver a growing stream of committed third-party revenues.
We are clearly focused on our efforts to continuing to grow our Logistics business.
Finally further to our commitment of maintaining strong financial discipline.
We continue repurchasing shares and otherwise returning to our shareholders to our competitive dividend yield.
We also expect to further reduce debt this year to maintain the balance sheet strength still in part of being competitive in this business.
And now we will take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about -- with the rapidly increasing inventories on the Gulf Coast it appears that some of the crudes that have historically served the Gulf Coast market are looking -- or priced attractively to move to the West Coast.
Could you talk about your ability to take incremental crudes that typically serve the Gulf Coast into California your refiners' capability of doing that and your ability to transport those volumes? That's the way our crude supply system is working now Jeff is very limited to be able to do that because of where we source our crude from and that so it's something that's in the short-term that's again to our supply patterns.
We have to really juggle our whole West Coast supply to be able to do that.
And at this point in time we haven't done that.
Research Division</strong> But your refinery capability is there to use alternative crudes it's more the transportation restrictions? Yes.
I think in the past we've actually said we could handle probably around 200 000 barrels a day of the kind of the Mid-Continent light fleet crude in our system in the West Coast if everything works perfectly.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And secondly in the Bakken you are receiving Bakken barrels on the West Coast and advantage -- transportation advantage relative to other regions.
It does appear that the Gulf Coast is not economic at this point for Bakken barrels by rail.
But it appears to me that the marginal Bakken barrel has got to move out of the -- out of the Bakken by rail.
And that perhaps the field's own prices are trading more than the typical $2 a barrel below Clearbrook and Clearbrook's kind of the indicator that we can see.
Are you seeing Bakken fields on pricing trading substantially below Clearbrook? Jeff we don't typically disclose those type of commercial deals because it impacts the way we supply our system.
But you're right Bakken is pricing very attractively to the West Coast which we believe will be the case going forward.
Your next question is coming from the line of Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Greg could you -- because it was quite a weak U.S.
GDP number yesterday but it seems like oil demand is pretty strong.
Could you give us some sort of comparison update on what your same-store sales or equivalent number is year-over-year? Just so we can get an idea for how the margin is looking in your markets.
Yes.
In the first part of the year so far our same-store sales in primarily California are up a little bit less than 0.5%.
And as you know they've continued to be pretty reasonably strong over the last several quarters so they look pretty good Jeff -- Paul sorry.
LLC</strong> So is the 0.5% growth -- isn't that kind of weak? Isn't that kind of weak Greg? Not really I mean it's -- I think if we stay in that less than 1% or so that's not bad.
I think there are probably some timing issues in that that's over short of few months.
So it's not going to be better yet.
But that's okay Paul.
LLC</strong> Yes sure.
And on distillate is there anything to add there? The distillate I think the distillate demand is in kind of above average nothing unusual there from a distillate standpoint.
I think the other thing we are seeing pretty strong exports off of the West Coast so far for the first 4 months of this year they continue to grow.
LLC</strong> Is that -- are you doing that? We're a significant part and we play into the West Coast export market both gasoline and diesel.
LLC</strong> Is that -- so are you saying that you an exporter? Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> One of the ideas Greg that would benefit you guys was that as you put more Bakken crude in another inland crudes that there would be more pressure on the Alaska market.
Is that market shifting the Alaska ANS market? It's what I'm talking about.
Are we seeing shift there of the kind that you anticipated both in terms of price and whether or not the volumes might start having to go over to Asia? Regarding the point on volumes to Asia I don't think that's happened yet and I think they're will have to be more supply in the West Coast.
The ANS differential to Brent had been quite attractively -- right now going into the maintenance season which communication that we receive from the producers is it's going to be a fairly heavy maintenance season in the last October differentials as you can see are turning back a little bit here for this period of time.
But we expect directionally that we move additional supplies of crude oil to the West Coast.
But the ANS differential will price more attractively to Brent.
LLC</strong> And last one for me Greg.
We had PBS saying that they may have some interest in buying California refineries.
Any observations on the asset market for us? Paul I don't really have any comments on that.
I haven't really heard anything or picked up anything in the media so I do not know.
Your next question is coming from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I mean has the EIS been filed? And any additional color on what the delays there or what the key gating item might be in that process? Two things we are in the [indiscernible] when the state will come out with the requirements for the EIS and then we'll comply with that.
So that's what we're waiting for.
So the primary delay is just waiting for the state to come with the EIS requirements but that is sort of somewhere between 6 to 8 weeks behind schedule.
But we're actually in a good position to respond fairly quickly when that comes out.
And that is part of the process it's the only delay that we've experienced so far.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And as you mentioned you can receive cargoes during that construction period which is now a little bit later.
I mean how should we consider the ramp-up of volumes? Or what can you move to the facility during that construction or the 12-month ramp/construction period? It's just a little bit too premature to do that.
I've mentioned that we've completed about 80% of the design and engineering work.
And just give us a little bit more time Evan so we get a better idea of what -- how we'll be able to manage that as time goes on.
I would suspect that some time after summer we'll have a really good indication of how we'll do that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And secondly for me on the synergy capture.
Overall is the $370 million to $430 million 2014 guidance on track? I mean would you consider that a back-end loaded number? Or how would you classify the overall progress and realization of that synergy price? Yes it's an excellent question.
I think first the opportunities we've identified and we've talked about in terms of broad profits are being implemented and we're seeing actually very good success in doing that.
I stated at the end of last year we would be in a position after the second quarter of this year to start sharing the contribution from the synergies and we still intend to do that.
And there's no change to the numbers that we've laid out in our plans both for 2014 and in aggregate for the synergy.
And there -- as we implement the staff they are listing more of the benefits later in the year.
But we're making very good progress and will be glad to share that in our second quarter earnings call.
Research Division</strong> Great I look forward to that.
And just one last one for me.
TLLP had a nice contribution this quarter.
I mean as you consider your retail assets and given some of what was highlighted earlier this week I mean do you see any MLP cash stream or MLP-able cash flow within your retail system? Anything that could be characterized as wholesale? Evan we continue to look at our retail business our focus is -- as everyone knows has been to strengthen our integration and refine the marketing -- and you can tell by my comments we made a small little acquisition in Utah that continue to build out our brand presence in the markets where we are.
So it's something that we continue to look at but have not arrived at any decisions on how we would do that at this point in time.
Your next question is coming from the line of Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess if we could just little bit talk about the Q2 California volume throughput's a little lower the combination of planned and unplanned.
Just wondering because we think some reports in the press is I guess it was the California version of OSHA putting some restrictions on you.
Can you give us an idea how that's gone through? Or is that behind us so it was really the month of April that hit you and the rest of the quarter should be okay? So for the first quarter our California throughput from a crude standpoint were strong including the maintenance that we did in our Los Angeles refinery.
During the month of April we have experienced a couple problems with our -- the 2 cat crackers at our Los Angeles refinery and lost a little bit of gasoline production mainly somewhere between 8% to 10% of production just for the month.
Those have been -- those issues have been corrected and we are back running full.
And we've also had a little bit of downtime on the crude unit at Martinez that will work through the quarter see what that finally turns out to be.
But Brian gave you the guidance for the second quarter for California and you could see the crude rates are still strong.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then as we look at the share repurchase program the last couple of quarters here it's been fairly consistent at $100 million.
And I guess I really should say less maybe 4 quarters.
Is that the right way to think about it? And given where you are through the program not trying to ask you to jump in front of your board but would the expectation be that we would see a further expansion of the program? I mean is that where you want to go with it? First we continue to evaluate each quarter how we want to repurchase shares and so you're exactly right.
We've had a track record here of doing about $100 million a quarter.
And I suspect that that would be a good way to evaluate going forward.
But we may change it if conditions were to change.
Second we've been very clear that our use of excess cash flow -- free cash flow is to be able to look for improvements that we can invest in the business where they reach -- provide high return and then be in the position to return cash to shareholders.
And then finally I think Scott did make the point in his comments that we still have about $400 million of turnaround that we put in place to finance the acquisition last year of the assets in Southern California.
And over the next couple of quarters it's within our intention to repay that term loan with the cash flow -- free cash flow.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First from time to time the permit discount just bear well.
Greg have you guys ever looked at whether economic -- or the better economic to weld from Permian up in the quarter instead of coming from Bakken? And what did you -- may change if you're using a different grade? We have in the past last year on occasion we did move from Permian to Los Angeles and manifest rail cars because of the inability to take high volumes there.
So we continue to look at that all at the time.
It's just we just don't want to go all the way to Anacortes with a crude.
It's just not as efficient as we can with Bakken in that Paul.
But we do continue to evaluate every possibility to move advantaged high-quality crudes from the mid-part of the country to the West Coast.
Research Division</strong> I think in the fourth quarter that you guys are shipping maybe 10 000 barrel per day to California or well over 10 000.
What's their warning in the first quarter? And what do you expect for the remainder of the year? In the first quarter we moved a little bit around 5 000 barrels a day -- 5 000 to 7 000 barrels a day into California.
And we will -- are projecting that we will continue to try to do -- move that amount of crude there.
Our logistical system is somewhat constrained and limits how much we can move there at the present time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So we just assume they would be pretty static say not more than 10 000 barrel per day for the remainder of the year? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in Carson I think before being acquired by you guys that they are running largely -- you said so ANS maybe 100 000 barrel per day and then maybe another 100 000 after Iraqi Basra.
If the crudes -- they have changed now or that you see sensory still about the same crude slate as in the past? It is basically the same.
We are running some different crudes there but not material differences at this point in time.
I think it's in our plan to do that.
So basically what you described is the bulk of the crude supply to 2 sources.
It's what happened in the Los Angeles refinery today.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Great.
How quickly that you think you may start -- be able to change their crudes slate to that? So that's the first thing one of the -- our intentions at the Port of Vancouver is to be able to do that.
So that...
Research Division</strong> So you have to wait until the Savage terminal up and running before you can actually do that? That would allow us to move the most significant volume right now as we do that.
We are looking on other things on an ongoing basis to be able to move crudes there.
So we have a number of things that we're looking at but that is the primary way that we want to be able to improve crude supply across through the Los Angeles facility.
Research Division</strong> And when the southeast -- we assume that your original data will get the permit and this actually will become a reality some time in 2015.
Given the -- you have said in your system you're running smoothly you can process up to 200 000 barrels per day of the light oil.
Is there any reason that you will not take 100% of the Savage wanting that into your own system? Seems like even after you expanded into 280 000 barrel per day including heavy oil and light oil you would be -- have more sufficient capacity refining capacity to absorb it.
Is there any kind of arrangement with your partner that will stop you in taking the entire shipment for yourself? There is no restrictions on how much we choose to move to Vancouver Washington and then supply our West Coast system.
We would just balance it with the financial commitments and our overall supply strategy with continued process of crudes in that of how much we ultimately decide to take.
We have said so far we have committed to take the first 50 000 barrels a day and I think the partnership has worked through with the rest of the supply for that facility we'll be engaged in doing that.
But I think at the same time Paul we need to look at the dynamics of the tightening of other types of crude as we do that.
And I think goes back to Jeff's question earlier that there maybe some other impacts on crude that we'll see how that impacts but will ultimately return on how much could we take up to our West Coast system.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Terreson with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Greg on synergy value and capture pace that you talked about a few minutes ago my question is whether there are any significant differences on how the team is performing versus expectations? Meaning is the team exceeding expectation in some areas and -- but not others meaning have there been any meaningful surprises either way in that area? As of today Doug there have not been really any surprises.
We have such a focused effort and with a good group of leadership in our systems and that are looking at it.
So there have not been any surprises.
And I think the other key thing to point out is as you go through the gaining process of our project work on the projects that one of the outcomes will be to shut down our cat cracker the Wilmington part of the facility.
That work is all progressing well on that.
So we feel very very good about the opportunity that we pushed through and the delivery and the people that are tied in with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then second the capture rate in the mid-continent was pretty strong this quarter.
So the question there is were there some factors that may or may not be recurring that will take that capture rate in the future? And if so what were they? I don't think there's anything significant.
I think the crude disk are down a little bit so far in April versus the first quarter.
But there's nothing that fundamentally we see going to change that would impact the capture rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow with Macquarie Capital.
I know you got the logistics cost still as coming but I was wondering if I could ask on a couple of details on the 1Q results and how that might trend going forward.
I guess in particular in that terminalling and transportation section I see 3 things that kind of stick out this quarter versus the sequential fourth quarter results.
One is the terminalling fee up meaningfully per barrel? Second is the pipeline transportation volumes well up? And third is operating expenses actually coming down sequentially despite the addition of the assets? Can you comment on those 3 items and the impact in 1Q and how that's going to trend going forward here? Yes there's probably 3 points to make that would answer your questions Chi.
First as a result of the top-down that we did in the fourth quarter at the last part of the Los Angeles assets that's working kind of as we planned and that has an impact from the first quarter results.
Across the system volumes for Tesoro Logistics in all areas for the first quarter relative to what we would expect performed extremely well and the things that our logistics team is working on are progressing well in that.
So everything is looking very very positive right now and the outlook is for that to continue to go.
You've seen our announcements on the open season and the success that we've had with that.
On cost there was a tiny issue on some cost in the terminalling system primarily some work that we moved out of the first quarter just from a workload standpoint that will come back later in the year but that's the only real impact.
Okay.
Really so if the terminalling fee is in the volume then we can expect that as a sort of recurring type of levels then? Yes.
They reflect the business with the changes in the portfolio for Tesoro Logistics that you got for the fourth quarter.
Okay good.
And then also on Logistics.
Looks like the coverage ratio for TLLP was over 2x in the quarter.
Can we expect that trend -- how do we expect that trend to go forward here? And do you have a target coverage ratio? So Scott do you mind commenting on that? Sure I'll take that Greg.
The coverage ratio was about 1.7x during the first quarter Chi.
And it really -- part of it is it includes $9.7 million in proceeds from the sale of the Boise Terminal.
So if you backed that out you'll see still a very robust coverage ratio but lower than the 1.7x.
And we target a 1.1x coverage ratio on a forward basis.
And any target on when you will achieve that 1.1x Scott? Well over the longer term is when we expect to achieve that.
But we've been growing the distributions at about 4% a quarter at this point.
So I think we're in a good shape relative to that target coverage ratio.
Okay.
And then a final question Greg.
Can you give us an update on the 2 pipeline projects the Uinta Basin and Cook Inlet and where those stand? First on Cook Inlet.
The work on Cook Inlet the design engineering work and working with a crude suppliers and all that is progressing well.
I think we said in our Analyst Meeting we expected that pipeline to come online in 2015.
And everything so far is on schedule and looking very very encouraging.
And so we'll probably have further updates on Cook Inlet during the -- probably summer time.
Regarding the Uinta express pipeline.
Somewhat similar story only not quite as advanced.
We are actively engaged in a pretty big outreach program with the community where the pipeline will go through informing them of the routing of the pipeline in that and we've had numerous meetings with the authorities out in the state.
The work on the pipeline is also progressing and that our plans to bring that on in 2016 as we've previously stated are also on track to do that right now.
So we've done a lot of work on designing the pipeline and getting very comfortable with the type of crude that we'd be moving on how we would handle that.
So both projects are looking very good.
Okay.
Are you running into any sort of opposition when you're meeting with the communities on the Uinta project? Not a lot about opposition.
I mean as you would expect in some cases there are some concerns when the pipeline goes to certain areas in that.
But nothing that we don't feel like we can't help to continue to help people understand what we're doing and all of the safety precautions and everything that are put in place when the pipeline is installed.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up.
You mentioned there was an extra 6- to 8-week approval process for the Port of Vancouver.
I just didn't quite catch what that was called.
Let me take one step back.
The best set process in the State of Washington the way it's laid out is about a 1-year process that we previously stated.
We used -- and started that process in August of 2013 and you work your way through that process.
We are at a kind of a stage in the process where the state needs to provide us the requirements for the EIS environmental impact study.
And they have not gotten that out to us yet.
And that's what we're waiting for and that is the primary slowdown in our permitting process.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess in I mean in different states but in California this EIS studies have sometimes come with problems in the sense of they ask lots of open-ended questions which are then difficult to nail down.
Can you give us some kind of thoughts around the risks of the EIS requirements causing a further delay from the -- what you've outlined this morning? At this stage we don't have any indication that that would be the case.
But I can tell you that our team in conjunction with Savage have done an extensive work on this.
And we are in a fairly good position to respond to the requirements with the State of Washington but it's just too premature to address that question.
Research Division</strong> This may also be premature but I mean do you think -- what do you think would be the most problematic elements of an EIS in terms of the work that your team has done? We really don't know at this stage yet.
And I think it's just -- I'd only be guessing and it wouldn't provide any benefit to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- obviously you had -- you flagged some of the unplanned downtime in the second quarter.
Obviously as people think about the strong earnings you've had in the first quarter and trying to think about the second quarter.
An opportunity cost if you had it would be very helpful for people to sort of handicap what you do in Q2.
I know you've given good throughput guidance.
Have you done any work on what the opportunity cost is so far? No not at this stage.
We've been bringing the -- we've got the issues corrected and they're back up and running.
And in some cases it will depend on how much make up we can do as we now run in the second quarter.
But our maintenance activity is relatively low during Q2.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay so early enough that there could be some catch-up? Yes.
Too early to comment on that yes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of things for me.
If I could just jump back to the cash balance question for a second Greg.
It looks like obviously there's a fairly punchy work in California this quarter.
Is that something that impacts your buyback pace? Do you expect that to reverse back out again? Just how are you thinking about that? Obviously the authorization is now a whole lot bigger than where we are today.
So if I could just ask you to revisit that issue very quickly.
Yes.
There's no question that if you look at our working capital it bounces around quite a bit as we supply primarily the Southern California system with crude oil.
And so -- but we continue to work to look at how we supply the system longer term and so that could change a little bit.
But it does have a little bit of an impact on our repurchase program and we look at the use of working capital and our desire to maintain a cash balance that we've said before of around of 3/4 of $1 billion plus or minus a little bit on either side of that.
So it does have a minor impact but we're pretty comfortable with the program we have in place and how we do our buyback right now as we've managed the cash position of the company.
Research Division</strong> A kind of related question to the cash flow.
The capital expenditure is pretty light in the first quarter relative to your guidance.
What -- is it just a pacing issue? Or can you help us with how the run rate will balance through the year? Yes it's primarily just pacing issues we've gone through the year in that.
So as Scott stated in his our guidance what all of our projections right now show is pretty much being on target with our capital plans for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And final from me is Bakken differential is obviously tightened up fairly aggressively in the first quarter.
I guess it's kind of squared fairly tight.
What does do to your economics around Anacortes? Do you continue to see -- I guess something about the yield uplift as well as the operating cost but do you continue to see that as economic under your current market? Yes absolutely.
Yes.
There was -- the differential is used -- sided in the market today it is still the right supply for Shell oil refinery.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Brian Randecker for any closing remarks.
Then thank you everybody and talk to you next quarter.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Q2 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I'll be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I'd now like to hand the call over to Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our second quarter 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosures and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the security act as there are many factors which could result or which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
I'll review the earnings release and some highlights of our results and provide guidance then hand the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported second quarter 2014 net income from continuing operations of $224 million or $1.70 per diluted share compared to $227 million or $1.64 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2013.
Results from continuing operations were $1.70 per diluted share in this quarter compared to $1.56 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2013 excluding special items.
Special items in the year-ago quarter include after-tax transaction and integration costs of $0.08 per share and an after-tax California pipeline settlement benefit of $0.24 per share.
We're pleased with our second quarter results.
Our results from continuing operations for the quarter are up meaningfully over last year reflecting the addition of the Los Angeles refining marketing and logistics assets and delivery of $200 million of EBITDA improvements through a combination of synergy capture and other business improvements.
As Greg noted in the press release this is especially important when you consider that the Tesoro Index is down over $2 per barrel from a year ago.
And our stock-based compensation expense is up $0.14 per share from a year ago.
The refining segment's operating income was $372 million for the quarter compared to $375 million last year.
The Tesoro Index was $12.99 per barrel for the quarter which was down over $2 per barrel compared to $15 per barrel for the second quarter of last year.
The overall gross margin for the quarter was $13.35 or 103% of the Tesoro Index compared to $14.75 per barrel or 98% of the Tesoro Index last year.
During the second quarter we recorded a $76 million pretax loss related to hedging activities.
Most of this loss occurred late in the quarter as crude prices moved higher on geopolitical uncertainty.
With crude prices declining early in the third quarter we expect to see much of these losses reversed.
Throughput for the quarter was 816 000 barrels per day or 96% utilization.
Direct manufacturing costs per barrel were up $0.23 per barrel to $5.88 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Operating income in the logistics segment was $50 million up $30 million or 150% from the second quarter of 2013.
The significant growth has been driven by the acquisition of the Los Angeles Logistics Assets and the Northwest Products System.
Tesoro currently owns 35% of the outstanding common units and 100% of the general partner of Tesoro Logistics.
The 19.5 million TLLP common units Tesoro currently owns are valued at over $1.4 billion based on the market price as of June 30.
The general partner received $8.3 million in distributions for the quarter or $33 million annualized.
This is 380% higher than the second quarter of 2013.
We anticipate these distributions will continue to grow as we remain focused on growing third-party EBITDA streams at TLLP.
The retail segment's operating income was $72 million a significant improvement from $25 million in the second quarter of last year driven by the Los Angeles acquisition and improved retail margins.
Same-store fuel sales were higher during the quarter by nearly a 0.5 percentage point versus second quarter last year.
Total retail fuel volumes were up over 60% year-over-year driven by the addition of approximately 835 dealer-operated ARCO retail stations on June 1 last year as part of the Los Angeles acquisition.
We're pleased with our West Coast presence and performance and the opportunities for continued EBITDA growth.
Unemployment in California continues to improve falling below 7.6% in May.
Total vehicle miles traveled as estimated by the California Department of Transportation is up 2.5% year-over-year for the period of January 14 through May 14 -- January 2014 through May 2014 the highest total on record.
And this is reflected in the Department of Energy statistics which show PADD V gasoline demand at or above the 5-year range for the majority of 2014 while inventory for gasoline is below the 5-year average.
And distillates are at 5-year lows.
Capital spending was $119 million for Tesoro during the quarter and $48 million for Tesoro Logistics.
We anticipate slightly lower full year 2014 capital spending of approximately $625 million.
This is before Tesoro Logistics capital spending which has grown 25% to approximately $200 million reflecting expected spending related to the construction of the Connolly Gathering System and the Anacortes Washington truck rack which is funded by TLLP from excess cash flows and the use of its own balance sheet.
Turnaround spending was $19 million for the quarter.
The company now expects full year 2014 turnaround expenditures of $195 million.
Full year 2014 deferred retail branding costs are now expected to be $25 million a 50% reduction from prior guidance.
Yesterday we announced that the Board of Directors approved a new $1 billion share repurchase program to become effective upon the full completion of the company's current $1 billion share repurchase program expected by the end of 2014.
We purchased $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the second quarter.
Through the end of July we have purchased an additional $50 million worth of shares.
This brings total purchases under the current $1 billion authorization to $750 million.
Tesoro Corporation today also announced that the Board of Directors has approved an increase in the regular quarterly dividend by 20% and declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
Our corporate and unallocated costs on a pre-tax basis were $67 million excluding $4 million in corporate depreciation and $26 million from stock-based compensation expense.
The noncash variable portion of the stock-based comp expense was $13 million for the quarter compared to a benefit of $15 million in the second quarter of last year.
The nearly $30 million swing in expense is a result of the stock increasing $8 per share this quarter compared to a decrease of $6 per share last year during the quarter.
The impact for $1 share movement -- $1 movement in the share price from this legacy stock compensation program has declined by 40% since last year to just now $1.5 million.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of about $1.2 billion.
Sources of cash include adjusted EBITDA of about $548 million changes in working capital and other of about $185 million and changes in debt of about $230 million.
Uses of cash include acquisition capital and turnaround spending of about $205 million shareholder distributions and buybacks of about $175 million and cash interest and taxes of about $130 million.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of approximately $2.3 billion on the corporate revolver and $347 million on the TLLP revolver.
Total consolidated debt was $3.1 billion.
Tesoro's portfolio was just under $1.7 billion and TLLP's was about $1.4 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to total capitalization ratio was 28%.
Turning to the third quarter guidance.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 505 000 to 525 000 in the California region 175 000 to 185 000 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 000 to 130 000 barrels per day in the Mid-Con.
We expect manufacturing costs in dollars per barrel to be $6.45 to $6.70 in the California region $3.95 to $4.20 in the Pacific Northwest and $4.10 to $4.35 per barrel in the Mid-Con.
Depreciation for Tesoro refining is expected to be $105 million and $16 million for Tesoro Logistics.
Additional guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $60 million and interest expense before interest income of $43 million.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Scott.
We are pleased with our progress towards achieving the 5 distinctive performance objectives discussed at our Analyst Conference last December: first delivering the California synergies; second enhancing our gross margin; third driving other business improvements across our system; fourth further growing our Logistics business through TLLP; and finally maintaining strong financial discipline.
During the first half of 2014 we delivered $200 million of EBITDA toward our synergy and business improvement objectives and are on track to deliver fully on these commitments.
This year we expect to deliver $160 million to $180 million of EBITDA improvements related to the California synergies $140 million to $160 million of improvements related to our efforts to enhance gross margins and $70 million to $90 million of improvements related to improving our base business.
Through June we have delivered approximately $100 million of EBITDA improvements related to the California synergies $75 million of improvements related to our efforts to enhance gross margins elsewhere across our system and $25 million of improvements related to improving our base business.
We are very pleased with the California synergies we are delivering.
The improvements are clearly visible when you compare our capture rates during the second half of 2013 with the first half of 2014.
The overall capture rate increased from 99% to 104% of the Tesoro Index while the Index increased from $6.46 to $9.89 per barrel.
This is equally impressive when you consider we completed the $650 million sale of the Los Angeles Logistics Assets to TLLP in December which moved an estimated $60 million to $65 million of EBITDA to Logistics.
In addition the first half of this year was also impacted by maintenance activity and the hedging activity Scott mentioned previously.
We are making good progress on the integration of the 2 facilities.
We are off the interim crude oil supply agreement and continue to focus on improving the optimization of the crude oil slate.
We expect to continue to run Basra and ANS but are continuously increasing the variety of crude oil we run.
The Wilmington portion of the facility can now access the Carson inbound crude oil logistics network which improves our flexibility.
During maintenance activity at the Anacortes refinery in the quarter; we were able to move some barrels of Bakken down to our Los Angeles refinery and realized refinery values relative to ANS similar to those that we experienced at Anacortes.
We are integrating the refined products logistics between the 2 refineries and are now moving finished barrels from Wilmington into the new Carson logistics system.
We just completed a connection between the 2 facilities that allows blending and sharing of both the gasoline and jet supplies.
Meanwhile we are advancing through the engineering phase of the project to shut down Wilmington's cat cracker and increase distillate production flexibility at the Los Angeles refinery.
We anticipate starting the permitting process this year and expect to complete the project in early 2017.
The project remains subject to final scoping board approval and permitting.
Efforts to enhance gross margins elsewhere in our system and drive other business improvements are also yielding strong results.
This can clearly be seen in the Mid-Continent region.
We realized a gross margin of $22.79 for the first half of 2014.
This is a 128% capture of the Group 3 crack of $17.79 which is an improvement from the 85% capture of the crack last year.
This improvement is a direct result of the completion of the first phase of the Salt Lake City Waxy Crude expansion Mandan diesel desulfurization unit expansion which will also allow the refinery to run an additional 3 000 barrels a day of total throughput.
These improvements along with some smaller project improved results by approximately $60 million during the period or about $2.50 per barrel.
We've also been focused on enhancing gross margins through further optimizing our marketing portfolio.
We closed on the acquisition of 15 retail stations in the Salt Lake area during the quarter and have added over 80 Exxon and Mobil-branded stations to our portfolio.
Turning to growth in our Logistics business.
TLLP had an excellent quarter and our operations are running well.
With the growth we have seen we have the opportunity to achieve an EBITDA run rate of $450 million to $500 million by the end of 2015.
We completed the sale of the logistics assets in July providing an additional $28 million of estimated annual EBITDA for TLLP and generating an additional $210 million in cash and $30 million in TLLP equity for Tesoro.
We expect the remaining $30 million portion of that drop-down to be completed late this quarter or early in the fourth quarter.
TLLP just raised its distributions per unit by 4% to $0.615 per unit and we expect to continue to increase quarterly distributions in line with our growth expectations.
As Scott said the market value of Tesoro's interest in the common units now exceeds $1.4 billion.
The value and distributions we received from the GP interest continues to grow rapidly.
Today those GP distributions stand at about $33 million annually a nearly fourfold increase from last year.
And given the organic growth we're pursuing we could see those distributions more than double over the next year.
Our strategy to deliver a growing stream of committed third-party revenues is highly differentiated from that of other refining MLPs and will drive significant shareholder value.
We are making substantial progress on our organic growth projects as we expect to spend $200 million in capital within TLLP this year.
Tesoro has additional legacy logistic assets as well as multiple projects under development which assures a rateable flow of drop-downs to TLLP over the next few years.
We are clearly focused on growing our Logistics business and our goal over the next 5 years is to increase third-party revenue to 50% of total logistics revenue.
Finally to support our commitment of maintaining strong financial discipline we have increased our dividend by 20% and announced a new $1 billion share repurchase program.
We have purchased $750 million through July under the existing $1 billion program and expect to complete the first $1 billion authorization by the end of this year.
We continue to focus on maintaining the balance sheet.
The permitting process for the 360 000 barrel per day Vancouver Energy project is progressing.
Despite some strong headwinds and a thorough Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC process we have taken several positive steps forward in the EFSEC process.
EFSEC issued the environmental impact study or EIS scoping report.
We have already submitted the majority of the preliminary draft environmental impact study to EFSEC and expect to submit the remaining portion in August.
The EFSEC approved the land use consistency which means the facility uses in line with city zoning requirements.
And the governor of Washington Governor Inslee has directed state agencies to issue a report on rail safety to be completed by October 1.
Once the EIS is submitted we expect to begin the adjudicated phase shortly thereafter which is the final stage before the recommendation is submitted to the governor.
We expect the facility will be operational in 2015.
At this point we have also completed upgrading our crude oil railcars and have 100% of our fleet compliant with the post-2011 CPC 1232 design specifications.
We are excited to unveil the new project to construct a mixed xylene extracting -- extraction unit in Anacortes Washington which will be supplied primarily with reformate from our Martinez and Anacortes facilities.
This is another example of our continuing efforts to enhance gross margins by improving yields to produce higher valued products.
We expect the 15 000 barrel per day project will cost around $400 million and be completed in 2017 pending permitting and other approvals.
We expect this to generate competitive returns similar to other large capital projects we had delivered over the last few years.
The market for xylene is expected to grow 5% to 7% annually driven by -- primarily by Asia.
And we are well-positioned to compete in this global market with our existing operating cost and logistics advantages.
This is just another example of what we are doing to drive value for our shareholders while focusing on execution and improving our base business.
Tesoro continues to perform well.
We remain committed to driving shareholder value as we achieve the synergies and other business improvement targets we've set and focus on growing our Logistics business.
And we remain confident in our future free cash flows and the long-term value of Tesoro as we expand our stock buyback program and maintain a competitive dividend.
And now we'll be glad to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> And there was -- just a very quick clarification.
You said the hedge loss was how much in Q2? I think it was -- go ahead Scott.
It was $78 million.
Research Division</strong> $78 million which was -- and so it wasn't shouted out in terms of when you think about the EBITDA that you reported last night? No it wasn't.
It was $76 million Ed I apologize.
Research Division</strong> Right okay okay.
And then a more strategic question for Greg.
The -- investing $400 million in pet chems and obviously I'd love to hear some thoughts as to what type of ROI you have on that project.
But -- and I guess you have choices.
I'm just intrigued in the thought process of why $400 million into that type of a project versus say trying to find $400 million of logistics projects or potential acquisitions that you could've done to drive value in the GP and LP harder? Yes we would do the latter.
Ed we would look for $400 million of investments in logistics and that also.
On the other hand as we look at our production of gasoline on the West Coast and we're looking ways to get the highest value for the gasoline off the West Coast we see the xylene market in Asia as a very attractive option on how we can optimize the West Coast system and make the mixed xylenes.
And so as we advance that project we see very attractive returns like I said returns comparable to what we've delivered on some of our other high return capital projects.
Research Division</strong> I guess to push you a little bit on that what sort of xylene prices have you used like a historical average or a view forward? Because obviously there's a lot of investments in xylene capacity as naphtha becomes more globally oversupplied.
Yes we've got -- we've done a very thorough analysis of prices to both produce and look at what xylene will sell for coming from the Gulf Coast West Coast Japan and Adam [ph].
So we have done -- looked at it very very thoroughly and particularly feel like our cost to supply gives us an advantage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then very quickly sir on the hedge loss how much was realized and unrealized? Actually Ed $78 million was realized and there was some unrealized that was positive.
So the net was $76 million and you'll see that in our 10-Q.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate some of the detailed discussion on the California synergy enhancement.
Of the $100 million that you've captured already what -- how would you break that down into the feedstock advantages logistics? It sounded like you were shifting some of the feedstock around and getting some integration and blending.
Were those the biggest 2 components of the $100 million? Yes.
The -- off of our target it's about half of what our target was for those categories that you talked about.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- you highlighted and confirmed the guidance that you had provided for 2014.
Is there any change to the 2015 numbers that you presented in your Analyst Day presentation? Actually Jeff 2015 is looking very solid also from our guidance.
Research Division</strong> And within the California synergies for 2015 how much of that is dependent on the Port of Vancouver project? Zero for California.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that's Port of Vancouver is all in a separate category? Yes that's right.
Yes.
Next question comes from Sam Margolin from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about retail.
I think generally we're sort of used to the pattern that when commodity prices are rising retail margins go lower.
It seemed to reverse this quarter.
Can you talk about the dynamics there? $73 million is sort of a lot of money in operating income.
It implies a lot of value for the system.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether it's recurring or if there was some unique components to the quarter? Yes.
The -- I mean the crude prices were volatile during the quarter.
And so on the early part of that quarter retail profitability was stronger than at the end of the quarter as crude prices moved up.
So the change isn't any different than what you've talked about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's kind of broadly sustainable then just given the expansion of the system.
And was it more related to strategic? Yes and early indications are the 3Q is running very favorable also.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on Vancouver it sounds like you're making a lot of progress there.
There's some competing applications I think for some similar types of projects in the region.
And there've been some I guess sentiment or headwinds against all of these projects kind of going through the application projects in a speedy way.
Do you think that you have an advantage because of your existing operational track record in the state and the Anacortes facility performing well and that might give you sort of a leg-up in this process against some of the other applicants out there? Probably it's worth clarifying Sam that there's 2 different processes.
Our process requires us to go through the EFSEC process that we've talked about on many occasions.
To my knowledge there are no other facilities being developed in the State of Washington that will go through the EFSEC process primarily because they're all smaller.
I think there's a 50 000 barrel per day threshold if you go to move the crude oil onto the water.
And so I don't know of any other facilities.
There may be but we're not aware of any facilities that are over 50 000 barrels a day.
And the last answer to your question is we absolutely think we have advantages by the way we operate in Anacortes and the steps that we're taking to permit the facility.
Next question from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Greg I wonder if I could go back to the petrochemical project? When we were with you out in California a month or so ago one of issues that was topical was how you can -- the steps that Tesoro can perhaps actually take to tighten up the gasoline markets in the West Coast.
It seems this is a very interesting first step but could you speak more specifically to how the same strategy may apply to the L.A.
complex? And if you could kind of talk what you think your timeline and ultimately the broader outlook for the market could be over the next several years when you take the cat cracker into account as well? I've got a follow-up please.
Yes well let me clarify something Doug.
On the West Coast our focus is to take our production whether it be gasoline or diesel and really find the highest valued market.
So that's our first priority is to take our production off of the facilities off the West Coast and put it in the highest valued market.
Therefore the mixed xylene project that we've talked about is an opportunity for us to take part of our gasoline pool primarily the reformet -- reformate excuse me that we would produce and then further produce that into mixed xylenes which we have targeted the Asian market as the market for that.
And so we have sized that project to fit the reformate that we would have available as we meet all of our gasoline demands on the West Coast so we could further upgrade to mixed xylenes to send to Asia.
So what we as a company have been trying to do is to take and meet the demands of the market through our facilities particularly Anacortes Martinez and now the Los Angeles complex meet all of the demands on the West Coast but at the same time look to take excess production and be able to move it to higher valued markets whether that'd be primary distillates into Mexico and Latin America or in this particular case moving reformate or now mixed xylenes into Asia.
One last point we had just said earlier that the flexibility that we gained in Los Angeles by the project that we're working on that we've talked about many times that flexibility allows us to make all the gasoline that we need to meet the market demands but really swing between distillate in that wherever the value in the market is.
And that was up about 30 000 barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I could ask the question a little differently.
I understand that the trend might devalue blending components.
And perhaps that's how I should've phrased it.
But obviously you looked at reformate production in the L.A.
complex or blending component production.
Do you have or are you looking at similar opportunities to basically recategorize if you like the blending components more towards the petrochemical market? And if so could you give us an idea as to what do you see as the structural length in the California gasoline market today that would perhaps need to be taken out in order to improve the longer-term outlook? That's really what I'm trying to get at.
We see the overall market pretty balanced on the West Coast actually.
So when we look at what the industry is doing to move gasoline into the export market the amount of gasoline relative to total exports off the West Coast is less than 1/3 of the total exports off of there.
So we -- in general the market because of what Scott mentioned with the vehicle amount traveled and the demand we're seeing and the industry is running well with high-utilization rates.
The gasoline market in California is pretty well balanced.
And so we're just looking for ways to optimize our facilities by taking some of these gasoline components and making the xylene that we can sell to Asia.
Research Division</strong> Greg so one final quick one if I may just a subtlety on the Vancouver from mid-2013 to 2015.
Are we thinking more towards the back end of the year or maybe some clarification on timing and your current expectations? And I'll leave it there.
Yes regarding Vancouver I mean we are working very diligently to comply with the requirements of the permitting process and we are dependent upon EFSEC to go through that process.
And although it's been a little bit slower than what we thought we feel very good now that we are getting the environmental impact study submitted.
And we go -- we will go through the next phase.
And we are hoping that by the early part of next year it will go to the governor for approval.
And we are looking at ways to move oil through the facility early that would allow us to do it in 2015.
So it's moving as you would expect when you go through a permitting process.
So there's nothing any different here than most facilities or units that you have to permit.
Next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Several quick questions.
Scott on the hedging I presume that's related to your long-haul crude supply.
Do you use WTI or a brand-based contract to hedge? It's brand.
And yes it is related to our long haul.
Research Division</strong> So those are brand-based? So it's not -- the $78 million the loss is not related to the base's difference? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that maybe just since I got you Scott that just maybe a request if possible.
It's great that you guys gave us the number on the GP cash flow on the call but is it possible that you can also put your tongue into your press release? That would be really helpful especially that the value creation becomes more visible over time.
Thank you Paul.
We'll take that under consideration.
Research Division</strong> And maybe this is for both Scott and Greg.
On designing portion also your announcement 2014 CapEx is being cut by 7%.
How should we view what kind of impact to the 2015 through 2018 CapEx comparing to what you provide from say during the Analyst Meeting? At this point Paul the guidance that we give -- we're in the middle of our budgeting process.
We don't see any material changes yet on our plans for '15 going forward.
So the change was relatively minor that we did on our capital spending for this year partly due to the Anacortes truck rack moving from Tesoro to Tesoro Logistics.
Research Division</strong> So the new way of designing in this $400 million should we automatically assume that that would be on top of whatever that you gave in the Analyst Day should be on top of? I think it's premature to do that Paul until we go through our budgeting process and do an optimization of our capital spend.
So I would just hold off until we reveal what our plans are at the end of this year as we -- you need to let us go through our process to determine how we allocate capital.
We have another question.
This one's from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Greg you kind of seem to be getting it all done here in terms of not only growing the MLP and everything else that you want to do in terms of synergies but also returning cash to shareholders.
I kind of seem to skip this one every quarter but there are again some assets known to be for sale more in the Mid-Con Central region in the U.S.
Can you just describe to us how you see the potential to perhaps diversify your refining base and allocation of capital if some of those would be potentially pretty big deals? So one I personally am not aware of any Mid-Con refining assets for sale.
So you may have to be more specific if you can.
And then secondly we've always been very focused Paul on understanding our market area and if any particular assets that we believe that would be very strategic and fit our business model that could be acquired and be accretive to the company that we would very very seriously look at those.
And we continue to monitor that but I'm not aware.
I mean I've heard of some assets potentially on the West Coast and Gulf Coast but not in the Mid-Continent.
LLC</strong> It's been reported the Venezuelans are looking to exit refining.
Yes I'm not aware of that.
LLC</strong> Fine.
And could you Greg just address what the opposition is to the Vancouver development? And if you can summarize what the problems are and if you like address those concerns? Yes it's a good question.
I think the nature of the facility is probably impacted by 2 things.
One is the concerns that have surfaced as some of the -- as a result of some of the rail incidents that have happened and as people have looked at the rail system and the steps that need to be taken to drive improvements and the rail operations.
So whether it be railcar safety or rail operations I think that is one of the concerns.
And that's something that's being addressed both by the rail industry by shippers by the government by the recent proposed rule-making that the DOT issued I think about a week ago.
So I think one it's all around railcar safety and that's a very reasonable and something that we all need to address.
I think the second issue that we have to deal with is there are parties in the country that aren't supportive of the use of fossil fuels.
And so some of that reaction when someone like ourselves is trying to put in place a facility like this you do encounter some opposition from people who do not favor the use of fossil fuels and that's something that we work through and really try to show the value of this facility because this facility will enable take in crude oil produced in the United States and moving it to refining -- a refining area that can easily take this crude oil because of both the quality of the crude oil and the cost to deliver this crude oil to the West Coast United States and look at this versus alternatives of bringing crude oil in whether it be from Russia or from the Middle East and get more -- get better use of this crude oil.
And so that we find to be very very attractive.
So I hope that answered your questions.
LLC</strong> It does.
I mean it feels like you've kind of been down this road before I'm thinking of L.A.
and you succeeded in getting local political support together there.
You mentioned the mayor here I think.
Is it fair to say that you've got some pretty strong political support for you as well right? Paul we just believe it's extremely important that we engage in the process.
The State of Washington has a very good process through the EFSEC that if we go through that process and provide transparency about the operations and the safety measures that can be taken and the value to the community and to the State of Washington and work that through the process that through that process all of the stakeholders can then evaluate the value that this contributes to well actually to the country and more so to the State of Washington.
So we're very engaged.
It's very important from a stakeholder standpoint.
And we have another question for you.
This one's from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to come back to the xylene project but from maybe a slightly different angle.
Obviously a lot of permitting challenges on the West Coast.
You've talked about the specifics for the project here but what about availability or any restrictions on loading vessels in your California operations to move the reformate up the coast to the Pac Northwest or as you were describing earlier kind of the readjusting what you're doing? Are we talking about making gasoline in California moving that up to the Pac Northwest and then the reformate mostly if not solely come from that area? No the answer to your question about any type of restrictions about moving finished products or feedstocks like reformate along the Western -- West Coast there are no restrictions.
It's just a normal use of the proper ships.
And the advantage that we have of our system today is that we're able to do that continually to optimize our system by moving that around.
So there are no restrictions or changes from that standpoint.
LLC Research Division</strong> And no incremental permitting? I just think about California and all of its challenges every which way.
No the permitting that we were -- we stated is we will be required to permit the facility in the State of Washington to construct it but that's the only permitting requirement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a general question about the performance of the Pac Northwest refining group now you had a competitor close a facility up in Alaska.
And I'd have to admit we were expecting a little better margin performance in the second quarter partly as a result of that.
Didn't really see it.
So I'm just curious.
I know that didn't happen until we were well into the second quarter but as you look at the overall product dynamics in that region now is that something where you would expect to see some improvements or it's really not that big a deal? Just trying to get a little clarity on that.
The first -- the answer to your first question regarding the second quarter was that we had maintenance in Alaska on one of our units and we also had maintenance in Anacortes on another unit.
So during the second quarter we experienced maintenance in both of the 2 facilities there in Alaska.
So that had a negative impact it's a onetime thing on our margins there.
The second answer -- the second question about just the overall supply/demand in that it has an impact that we can easily meet the increased demand as a result of the closure of the facility in Alaska by running at higher rates at our facility and we are positioned to be able to do that.
We have another question for you.
This one's from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A few quick ones for me just a follow-up on Vancouver.
I mean to be clear has your guidance changed on when you expect to reach full capacity in 2015? I know you mentioned the 2015 startup.
And does the October rail report change anything in that regard? So we would -- well we don't know the outcome of the October rail report.
I think it will be a good discovery process regarding safety.
And then our guidance has always been the same that once we begin construction it's about a 9 to 12 months to complete it.
However because of that way we would go about it we would be able to use the facility early on and then ramp up as we went through it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Then how much -- can you break down the MLP EBITDA currently at TSO with and without the Vancouver so that I could be on a different drop-down kind of timeframe? So I'm not -- can you ask that question? Research Division</strong> Sorry your aggregate -- the aggregate EBITDA that's MLP above the Tesoro level.
I know it's inclusive of Vancouver.
So what is the Vancouver MLP EBITDA component within the total MLP EBITDA component at Tesoro? Evan we haven't provided numbers like that.
I mean we've talked about this facility in the range of $1 billion or better.
We haven't provided specific total EBITDA droppable assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could switch gears to -- on the chemicals side.
I know you mentioned competitive returns on chemicals but can you define what the return level has been either -- not for the project but for kind of other major projects that you've -- that you proceed with? We would see the project in the very high teens to low 20%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is the chemicals is it too integrated with refining or do you see any ability or potential to ring-fence some portion of the chemical margin into MLP that? I mean I know it's premature but how do you think about that? It's early on but I mean it's something that could be looked at.
I mean it is a possibility to do something like that by the nature of the investment yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe lastly for me.
I mean the growth rate that you cite is very positive 5% to 7% for xylene market.
I mean that's close to ethylene demand and 1.5x GDP.
I mean can you just help us better not me help us better understand the xylene and the end markets and the depth of that -- of those markets? Because I know it's a bit more of a niche chemical market.
And I'll leave it at that.
Yes our analysis is we've done a very comprehensive look at all the customers throughout Asia and with more of a focus on the northern part of Asia and looked at current and future demand and also where current supplies are coming from and see a lot of potential.
I mean we've been working on this for a year.
So it's -- we see a lot of potential opportunity there.
And it's really kind of -- it'll be too premature to talk about the commercial-type arrangements we would put in place to support the project.
[Operator Instructions] We have another question for you.
This one's from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up on xylene this project what kind of permit there do you need? From what state? Paul the mixed xylene project would be constructed at the Anacortes Washington facility.
And primarily not only they would be the permits local permits as well as their permits.
Research Division</strong> So Greg does that mean that because you are pulling the reformate from I believe from Carson and Wilmington right or...
No we would -- we plan to use reformate from Martinez and Anacortes and build an extraction unit at Anacortes to process those streams there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that means that you need to pull out from those 2 facilities in California.
Do you need any air permit or any kind of environmental permit or anything from California or from the local county? No we do not.
And just to clarify one more time Paul it's just the Martinez facility.
We do not...
Research Division</strong> Just the Martinez? At this point in time we do not plan to use any reformate from the Carson facility.
So it's the local reformate at Anacortes and then we will bring in reformate by ship from Martinez to Anacortes.
And the only permitting required will be at the facility in Anacortes.
We have another question for you.
This one's from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just another point of clarification and another strategic question.
Just on the synergies that sort of $200 million or so slightly above is that a run rate of what you actually achieved in terms of the EBITDA contribution in the first half of the year? Or is that sort of a run rate that you feel you've hit say at some point in the second quarter? Ed the $200 million is what we have achieved through June 30.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so the bias is probably more second quarter versus first quarter just in terms of how that builds out? Yes it's been building up.
Yes correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then strategically I mean you've -- you obviously you have spoken about your appetite to drive towards a much higher level of EBITDA in the logistics aspect now thinking less TLLP but more Tesoro overall.
Maybe just give us an update on where you think you could get to and how you'd have to get there? Well we have -- I mean we've talked about a number of opportunities that are in different stages of development.
And so one the Port of Vancouver is one.
The Uinta Pipeline in Utah is another.
The Trans-Foreland Pipeline in Alaska is another.
So we have a portfolio of logistics projects as well as a pretty extensive amount of work going on in North Dakota to build out our pipeline and storage system up there.
One -- I mean one of the things you just heard us mention is that we intend to spend $200 million in TLLP this year to build out that system.
So there's a number of things we have going on.
Research Division</strong> And presumably you wouldn't be averse if the right opportunity came up to use the TLLP equity backed by Tesoro's C corp ability to borrow to even consolidate presumably if the right opportunity was out there? We would look for opportunities for Tesoro Logistics to acquire strategic assets that fit into our footprint absolutely.
Without using Tesoro we would do it on a standalone basis for Tesoro Logistics.
Thank you for your questions.
We have no more questions for you.
So ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for joining today's conference call.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mina and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our third quarter 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
And Tesoro Logistics will be holding a joint Analyst Day and Investor Day in New York on December 9 at 9 a.m.
The registration instructions are detailed in the third quarter earnings press release.
Starting with the 4Q and full year 2014 earnings results we will begin to post an audio file on our website in connection with each quarterly earnings press release.
This audio file will contain the scripted portion of our quarterly call and we will only cover highlights on the live call to allow more time for Q&amp;A.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Brian.
I'll review some highlights of our results talk about our outlook and then hand the call over to Greg.
We're very pleased with the results of all segments of our business during the third quarter.
We achieved 126% capture rate of the Tesoro Index realized record retail results and continued to grow logistics.
This resulted in net income of $396 million or $3.05 per diluted share.
EBITDA was $840 million a record quarterly result.
Let's review each of the segments starting with refining.
Operating income was $578 million for the quarter compared to $128 million last year.
Throughput for the quarter was 858 000 barrels a day or 101% utilization.
The favorable margin environment increased retail demand from our integrated network and our excellent operating performance allowed us to run our facilities at higher utilization than originally planned.
Direct manufacturing costs per barrel were down $0.46 per barrel to $5.42 compared to the second quarter 2014.
The Tesoro Index was $12.32 per barrel for the quarter.
The overall gross margin for the quarter was $15.49 per barrel or 126% of the Tesoro Index.
During the quarter Brent crude oil declined by $18 per barrel and WTI declined by $14 per barrel.
During our second quarter call we highlighted the $74 million loss on mark-to-market and the majority of that reversed at the beginning of the third quarter.
Operating income in logistics segment was $61 million up $48 million or 369% from the third quarter of last year.
The substantial growth has been driven by increased throughput volume from the High Plains system in North Dakota the Los Angeles Logistics Assets and contribution from the West Coast Logistics Assets.
The retail segment's operating income was $138 million.
We experienced higher same-store fuel sales during the quarter of 1.4% versus the third quarter last year.
Strong sales from our ARCO network are expanding Exxon and Mobil retail branding program and favorable market conditions resulting from strong demand and declining crude oil prices results in record level retail segment performance.
Let's now focus on cash and capital structure.
Consolidated sources of cash included quarterly record EBITDA of $840 million and changes in working capital and other of about $60 million.
Uses of cash include capital and turnaround spending of about $220 million changes in debt of about $115 million shareholder distribution and buybacks of about $210 million and cash interest and taxes of about $60 million.
We ended the third quarter with a strong cash balance of over $1.5 billion.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of approximately $2.2 billion on the corporate revolver and $332 million on the TLLP revolver.
Total consolidated debt was $2.9 billion.
Tesoro's portion was under $1.7 billion and TLLP's was under $1.3 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to capitalization ratio was 27%.
We purchased 150 million worth of Tesoro's shares during the third quarter.
Through the end of October we have already purchased an additional 50 million in shares.
This brings total purchases under the current $1 billion authorization to $900 million.
We expect to begin utilizing the new $1 billion share repurchase authorization program in 2015.
Tesoro Corporation today also announced that the Board of Directors has declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share.
Turning to the fourth quarter outlook.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 495 to 515 on the California region; 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest; and 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent.
We expect manufacturing costs in dollars per barrel to be $605 to $630 in California region; $445 to $470 in the Pacific Northwest; and $380 to $405 in the Mid-Continent.
Depreciation for Tesoro refining was expected to be $105 million and $10 million for Tesoro Logistics.
Additionally we expect corporate expenses excluding depreciation to be $60 million and the interest expense before interest income of about $56 million.
Interest expense will also include approximately $30 million of additional expense during the fourth quarter related to TLLP's financing and acquisition of QEP Field Services.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Steven.
We are pleased with our progress towards achieving the 5 distinctive performance objectives discussed at our Analyst Meeting last December.
First delivering California synergies; second enhancing our gross margin; third driving other business improvements across our system of assets; fourth growing our Logistics business through TLLP; and finally doing this and maintaining strong financial discipline.
Through the end of the third quarter we delivered $390 million toward our ongoing California synergy and business improvement objectives.
We expect to exceed our commitments this year and we'll provide an updated outlook for 2014 and 2015 at our Analyst and Investor Day in December.
This year we committed to delivering $160 million to $180 million of improvements related to the California synergies.
Through September we have delivered approximately $165 million of these improvements.
We also committed $140 million to $160 million of improvements related to our efforts to enhance gross margins.
We have delivered $135 million of these improvements related to our efforts to date this year.
And finally we committed to $70 million to $90 million improvements related to improving our base business.
Through September we have delivered $90 of these improvements.
We're very pleased with the delivery of the California synergies.
The improvements are clearly visible when you compare our capture rate versus the Tesoro Index this year.
The third quarter gross margin capture rate was 117% or nearly $2 per barrel over the Tesoro California index of $11.12 per barrel.
We continue to make good progress on the integration of the 2 facilities.
We have run over 20 different types of crude oil in Los Angeles this year and are continuing to focus on improving the optimization of the combined crude oil slate.
The Wilmington facility has started to realize benefits from accessing the Carson inbound crude oil logistics network which has improved our flexibility.
Meanwhile we are advancing through the engineering phase of the project to shut down Wilmington's FCC or cat cracker and increase distillate production flexibility at the Los Angeles refinery.
We have started and submitted the initial permitting and expect to complete the project in early 2017.
The project remains subject to final scoping board approval and permitting.
Efforts to enhance gross margins elsewhere in our system and drive other business improvements are continuing to yield strong results.
This can clearly be seen in the Mid-Continent region.
Year-to-date we realized a gross margin of $23.62.
This is a 135% capture of the Group 3 crack of $17.39 which is an improvement from the 92% capture of the crack over the same period last year.
This improvement is a direct result of the projects we completed last year and we look forward to the added benefits we'll receive with the Phase 2 expansion at Salt Lake City next spring.
Our Pacific Northwest region had utilization of over 97% in the third quarter which has not been achieved since 2007.
Year-to-date utilization in the Pacific Northwest has increased to 90% over a 10% increase compared to the same period last year.
We've also been focused on enhancing gross margins through further optimizing our marketing portfolio.
We now have approximately 110 Exxon and Mobil-branded stations in our portfolio up from 80 at the end of the second quarter and 0 1 year ago.
Turning to growth in our Logistics business.
TLLP has once again had an excellent quarter and operations are running well.
We expect annual 2015 EBITDA from our existing business to grow $75 million to $100 million over 2014 primarily as a result of our organic growth programs and the full year benefit from the acquisition of the West Coast Logistics Assets.
With the announced acquisition of QEP Field Services we expect to generate additional consolidated EBITDA inclusive of 100% of QEPM of approximately $250 million to $275 million before integration expense.
With the additional $500 million investment in TLLP common units as part of the financing of the acquisition Tesoro now owns approximately 28.2 million units or 35% of the outstanding units.
We also completed the $270 million sale of logistics assets to TLLP during the quarter.
The value and distributions we receive from our GP interest continues to grow rapidly.
The third quarter GP distributions are expected to be around $14.3 million or $57 million annualized.
This is over a 70% increase from what our GP distributions were just last quarter and we expect the total distributions from TLLP to Tesoro in 2015 will exceed $150 million.
Tesoro has been utilizing TLLP to execute a very distinctive strategy and support our growth objectives.
With the QEP Field Services acquisition we are now entering a new era for TLLP.
As we have a platform for robust growth across the crude oil and natural gas basins in Tesoro's strategic footprint we remain focused on growing our string of committed third-party revenues which highly differentiates from the other refining MLPs.
Tesoro intends to remain -- maintain robust growth within our logistics through a host of activities that include higher utilization organic expansion and strategic growth through acquisitions as well as a ratable flow of accretive asset sales to TLLP over the next few years.
Our strategy around logistics has been consistent from the start and we are committed to delivering stable cash flows and driving a high level of growth through our Logistics business which should continue to generate significant value for all of our investors.
As the largest unitholder of TLLP we're determined to execute our growth plans and continue to deliver exceptional distribution growth to the unitholders.
Finally to support our commitment of maintaining strong financial discipline we have continued our share repurchase program.
We expect to complete the first billion dollar authorization by the end of this year.
With only $100 million remaining as of today we are on track to accomplish $500 million of total repurchases in 2014.
We continue to focus on maintaining the balance sheet strength so important to being competitive in this business.
The permitting process for the 360 000-barrel per day Vancouver Energy project is progressing.
The state of Washington issued a preliminary report on rail and marine safety which is currently in the comment period with the final report to be issued March 1 2015.
During the third quarter we submitted the complete Preliminary Draft Environmental Impact Study to the Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC.
We expect EFSEC to release the draft environmental impact study for public comment and begin the adjudicative phase shortly which is the last stage prior to a recommendation being submitted to the governor of Washington.
The joint venture will begin construction of the facilities upon governor approval of the project and the issuance of permits.
Project construction is estimated to take 9 next 12 months.
However initial operations are expected to begin within a few months of construction start.
During the third quarter we submitted the initial permits for the Los Angeles integration project which is designed to improve the flexibility of gasoline and diesel yields and reduce emissions at the Los Angeles refinery.
We expect the project which is still subject to final regulatory and board approval to be completed in early 2017.
We are also progressing forward with a review and commercialization efforts around our projects to construct a mixed xylene extraction unit in Anacortes which will be supplied primarily with reformate from our Martinez and Anacortes facilities.
This is another example of our continuing efforts to enhance gross margins by improving yields to produce higher valued products.
We expect to make a final investment decision in early 2015 around a 15 000-barrel per day project which will cost around $400 million and be completed in 2017 pending permitting and other approvals.
Tesoro continues to perform well.
We remain committed to driving shareholder value creation as we achieve the synergies and other business improvement targets we've set and focus on growing our Logistics business.
We remain confident in our future free cash flows and the long-term value of Tesoro.
And now we'll take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] [Audio Gap] Just a follow-up so the Pacific Northwest and I guess I jumped the gun on this the last quarter asking the questions surprised that the margins weren't better given some of the competitive changes up there.
But this quarter you definitely saw it.
Were there any unusual items in the Pac Northwest Alaska that we should think about or was it this is really probably the way this market should run in these conditions? There were no unusual conditions during the third quarter.
We ran extremely well as we stated and no other changes.
Okay.
And then onto the Port Vancouver can you give us an idea of maybe any milestones we need to watch here in the permitting process a comment from the government any sort of legal process that we have to focus on signature by the governor or a commission board or anything like that? There are no specific milestones that will be visible.
We go through the adjudicative process which is the opportunity for different public parties to engage in the process.
And then they make their recommendation to the governor and as we've said in the past the governor then has 60 days to act on it.
But there are no specific milestones that will be visible.
And any dates we should think about with those various commissions and boards? Is anyone facing any particular deadlines or anything like that? Well the deadline passed a long time ago.
It was supposedly a 1-year process but it's -- everything has been put forward being addressed by the EFSEC and the ball's really in their court to progress things through the adjudicative process.
Your next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys -- if you could share any -- maybe inside the sense assets that could add to your MLP asset base? And whether you believe that your MLP-able figures are apples-to-apples versus some of your refinery -- refining peers? Yes our assets that we've talked about are not probably apples-to-apples as best we can tell from what we read about what they look at.
We are looking at all of our assets and will determine what we will do in the future.
But I think the best thing Evan is that we're committed to over the next few years to continue to do drop-downs in the $300 million to $500 million range each year over the next several years.
That's our plans right now partly because we have other things we're trying to do as we grow the logistics business.
Research Division</strong> No -- I mean for sure.
Is there -- yes is there something we may hear an update on at the Analyst Day I mean particularly given some of the recent negative performance at TLLP given that would clearly augment the duration of that growth story? Yes I mean we'll share more of what our plans are.
We've actually been pretty clear that our -- one of our key priorities is to grow the third-party business for TLLP versus being dependent upon all of the drop-downs.
So we're going to complement drop-downs with third-party growth just as we did with QEP that acquisition.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then maybe secondly for me.
Synergies are clearly doing well.
I mean can you discuss specifically where are you seeing the upside in the different buckets you provided in 2Q or is that something you're going to do more like maybe a longer duration timeframe before you can update there? Yes no we plan to lay out kind of build upon what we laid out last year at the December meeting and we'll do more of that.
But really across-the-board if you look at the 4 big buckets that we talked about around feedstock cost around the use of the logistics system production improvements and then just cost.
If you look at those 4 buckets then totaled up to be the total synergies.
In every area we're delivering and in some areas we've found other opportunities.
So it's a very encouraging story and the outlook is very positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Sam Margolin from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just want to circle back to QEP for a minute.
It seems like it opens up to a myriad of commercial opportunities probably more than we can go over on this call.
But I was wondering if there's any potential synergies with the Washington State rail facility if there's NGL export potential out of those terminals as well? Or if those are specifically Jones Act qualified and need to go to California on any kind of waterborne trade? I'm talking about some of the fractionation output from the QEPM? It's too premature for us to address that.
We know how it works today how the system works today and we haven't got into that point where we would try to find any changes.
We think there are opportunities with that refining system with some of the NGLs and that but we're not in advance enough understanding of the assets to determine that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with retail I thought -- I think we all thought 2Q was a blowout quarter and then third quarter comes in even higher.
Just to circle back strategically those types of assets seem to be garnering higher and higher valuations by the day.
Are there any considerations for moving it into TLLP or potentially another vehicle for it as you sort of consistently build EBITDA there? I know it's important with RINs within the system but just if it's scaled now for anything strategic? Yes our first priority is to continue to build out a strong system to support our refining business.
As we said all along we want a very highly high-quality integrated system and we continue to make good progress like I mentioned in the call with growth in the branding of the Exxon and Mobil brands.
So we're -- that's our first priority.
At the same time we will look at ways to see where is the best value to be captured in that and we're not just at a stage where we're going to make any commitments on what we're going to do that yet.
But we're very aware of the value of the marketing business and the different options.
But we really want to stay focused on growing that value right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I was just thinking about [Technical Difficulty] So it's Mr.
Brad Heffern from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just take a second to sort of walk through the dynamics you're seeing in the ANS market currently.
Obviously we had the first cargo of crude being exported there since 2000 recently.
So do you think that's sort of a one-off event or something we're going to be seeing more of? Well we don't control the export of ANS crude oil.
So we were aware that there was a cargo that was exported.
But the competition for ANS pricing has picked up as everyone's saying throughout the year and now you can see where the differentials are for ANS.
So the market looks to us to be pricing fairly from a refining standpoint relative to our other alternatives in that and it's kind of like we've expected to develop over time.
But the exports is a whole different story.
You'd have to have the people who produce and what they're going to do with it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then I think you mentioned on Salt Lake City we were expecting it to come on in the spring.
Am I to assume that everything is on schedule there and we're on budget? Yes Salt Lake City is progressing extremely well.
Sometime at the end of the first quarter very beginning of the second quarter the project will be completed and we'll be ramping up to the higher levels of the waxy crude and increased production capacity a little bit.
So we're in good shape.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay then last one for me.
I assume that and part of the reason that you announced some xylene project and you did was to sort of see what the market response to it was.
Can you talk through what the response has been that you've seen thus far? Well we announced some xylene project because that's what we intend to build the mixed xylene plant is why we announced it and the market response has been extremely favorable from key customers that we have targeted in Asia.
Mr.
Paul Sankey's back and so you've got questions from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Greg a few couple of years maybe longer ago you used to have a line that you thought you could make I think it was $250 million of EBITDA at a given margin I can't even remember what we used.
Obviously a lot of stuff has changed since then.
Do you have a similar rule of thumb now because we do struggle with the volatility of the earnings that you get in California? But obviously on a kind of through the cycle basis it would be helpful if you had something that could just indicate what you think you can make on an annualized run rate.
You're talking about California? LLC</strong> Well I think it was California that you said but it might have been Tesoro-wide actually now that I think about it.
I think it was like at the Analyst Meeting 2 or 3 years ago you told me I think it was $250 million of EBITDA or $15 California crack is what I seem to remember.
Well I'm not 100% certain I know what you're talking about but I can tell you that when we were in the process of acquiring that business from BP in Southern California at that point in time at around $14 or $15 LA crack spread.
The Tesoro business made about $0.5 billion and the economics on the -- for the acquisition was about $0.5 billion.
So the combined system before we could get in and drive all the improvements and that under those market conditions could make about $1 billion of EBITDA.
I think that's what we talked about.
LLC</strong> Right.
And so keep going then.
So basically what I'm trying to capture is how that's changed given all the moving parts that we've seen since then.
Where do you think that level is now? So as we have driven the synergies and all the improvements in the business in California it's definitely gone to a lot higher level.
And I think you'll see that unfold in the results.
Off the top of my head I don't know what our California results are year-to-date for the region what we have reported but that plus when you see the plants come out for next year you'll see that $1 billion that we talked about grow pretty significantly.
LLC</strong> Yes I guess what we struggled with over the years has been California and how to think about it through the cycle.
And maybe it will be something for the analyst meeting if we could get an idea of what that base will be aligned for all of the changes that have occurred and will occur because obviously the Bakken stuff is kind of somewhat easier to get comfortable with but the level of volatility that we're seeing in California has always been something that we struggle with.
Yes yes we can talk more about that at the analyst meeting.
I'd be glad too.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ryan Todd and he's from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on Port of Vancouver.
You mentioned the potential to get barrels moving a couple of months after the permitting process but long before the port facility was constructed.
Can you remind us the throughput volume that you think you can achieve in the meantime? We haven't talked about the throughput volume but we have -- we've designed some ways that allow us to come into the facility while the tanks are being constructed and load directly on the ships.
So we haven't stated the volumes to start with.
But we have -- we can deliver 2 unit trains a day into their startup.
So it just depends on how it works out.
It's probably a little bit too early to talk about those volumes but they would be probably less than 50 000 barrels a day I would guess.
Research Division</strong> I guess it's still a relatively meaningful number in the interim? Yes yes could be.
Research Division</strong> And just on the West Coast market in general.
I mean obviously the arrival of the rail volumes to the West Coast is going to have a significant impact on general West Coast crude dynamics.
And then from what you can see right now are you seeing any signs of change in the market on the West Coast in anticipation of this or is this something that we think plays out once we start to see more meaningful volumes ramp up over the course of 2015? I think over this year you've seen ANS pricing behave a little bit differently relative to Brent than it has in the years past as additional volumes from a number companies have come on to the West Coast and it will continue to change.
And then I think not just from the Bakken but also you'll see changes with SJV with the heavy crudes coming on.
So we'll be delivering heavy crude into California from our rail system in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe one final one.
Just can you talk about what you're seeing demand-wise across your entire system and in California in terms of gasoline and distillate demand? I can't remember if you mentioned that in the comments earlier or not.
Yes I think that Steven said demand was up about 1.4% and demand continues on a year-on-year basis to look good.
I think last call or sometime we stated that the vehicle miles traveled in California are up at all-time highs.
We'll then move on to the next question which comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Greg in the second quarter that you have debt hedging north because of the crude oil price increased sharply at around the quarter end.
And in this quarter that it actually declined pretty sharply.
In addition to the reversal of whatever that you lost do we actually have any hedging gain or any inventory gain in the quarter? You're exactly right Paul.
During the end of the second quarter as Steven mentioned earlier in his comments the last 2 weeks of the second quarter we saw crude prices run up and we reported that we were impacted on our derivatives by about $77 million as a result of that run up.
There wasn't the same change in prices at the end of the third quarter.
So there are no significant impacts at the end of the third quarter of this year.
But during the quarter I mean you're aware of the dramatic fall in crude oil prices and we hedge our crude with derivatives.
So we match up our physical and the derivatives and that.
So we had additional derivatives gains during the third quarter but they're tied back to the loss on the physical barrels.
And there was no inventory impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay so yes not like that.
That's fine.
I understand.
And the second question on the self-help initiative.
Year-to-date your set rate [ph] is much higher than the run rate of the 2014 target.
Should we look at it as just seeing acceleration of the benefit from future year or this is add to the overall expected benefit? Our improvements are relative to what we said we were going to do this year.
It's not an acceleration.
It's exceeding what we said we were going to do Paul.
And as I mentioned briefly earlier that we're pretty positive on other opportunities that we have seen and I'd like to take the opportunity at our analyst call to lay out a similar plan like we did last year what we see on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> So we should assume that the overall expectation over the next 2 or 3 years you thought that $400 million -- I think $450 million or $440 million is going to be higher? Yes has the potential to be higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the xylene project it seems to me you're going to go ahead with that.
Should we assume that that $400 million investment is going to be on top of the previous CapEx that you had laid out for the company? Or that you're going to try to live within whatever that you have previously set and trying to trim CapEx from other areas? So right at the end of this year we'll lay out our capital plan for the next couple of years and talk about how we're allocating capital to the -- especially to the high-return capital projects that will balance out with the opportunities that we have because -- you heard me speak earlier we also have the Los Angeles integration project to do also but we'll lay out a very clear plan of how we're going to allocate capital very effectively over the next couple of years in December.
Research Division</strong> A final one.
You mentioned that QEP acquisition your expected contribution is $250 million to $275 million EBITDA.
Just want to....
In '15.
Research Division</strong> 2015.
That is from Day 1 the run rate or that is the year-end run rate? No that's the contribution for 2015.
It's Day 1.
Research Division</strong> So yes for the actual contribution for 2015 that's what you expect to receive? That is correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the release you had TLLP I think $250 million to $275 million and I think that was a lot higher than the recent run rate.
This is for that QEPFS acquisition.
So I'm just wondering some color on what the quick hits are that get you there so quickly? This is Steven.
So the $250 million to $275 million if you look at QEPFS their 2013 results were about $233 million.
If you get to the bottom end of the range you've got the synergy costs which are basically just the some costs that were in that business that will cease once we absorb it into our business.
And then there's some expectation based upon the projects that have been put in place and the growth within those basins to see some top line growth in the business as well and that gets you to the top end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And when I think about cost and what you did well with costs and it was an asset which BPA looked after perhaps but had not loved as much.
I mean is this your same expectation for the quality of the assets that you have at QEPFS? No the -- we are very very impressed with the quality of the assets.
We've had a good opportunity to go over the assets and the people who run those assets.
So actually very similar to Carson.
The quality of the assets in Carson and the caliber of people they're probably very comparable.
And so we believe that there's a very strong foundation of good business there.
There's good growth potential by working with the current producers who use the system.
But more importantly because we are a third-party provider that we can go out and bring on additional business on to the system in the Uinta basin and -- to enhance that system.
And then secondly it gives us an important platform to be able to go into North Dakota and expand our crude oil gathering pipelines storage operations and include the natural gas business there.
So that's kind of how we look at it for -- on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then switching topics I mean obviously we've got the Analyst Day coming up so maybe you're saving a lot for that.
But I mean it still feels like you've got a big plan of what you have to do in refining today when you think about cost and you think about Golden Eagle Mandan Salt Lake City and Kenai and some of that's coming through but it feels like there's also -- so maybe a little bit of color of what innings are we in do you think in terms of improving your overall refining footprint? I think we're making -- we're continuing to make very good progress.
Our -- probably the thing that is absolutely the most critical is our focus on our environmental health and safety performance which we've always said translates into higher reliability.
We're targeting to get to World Cup class reliability and I think if you look at the third quarter the third quarter is an excellent example of running extremely well which doesn't always happen but we've performed extraordinarily well.
And so I think across the system we have opportunities to continue to drive those type of improvements that we'll translate into an improved performance of the business in addition to the capital investments that we are making and that we have planned to make that will strengthen the performance of that business either by lowering the feedstock cost or enhancing yield and to a lesser extent improving the operating costs.
So I didn't answer your exact question on which inning but I think the point is we've made a lot of progress and there are still opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And then obviously we've got the transition to the low carbon fuel standard I think beginning Jan 1 next year.
Obviously oil prices being lower probably helps the market absorb the extra costs.
But maybe just an update on how this will affect your business in 2015? Yes so it's not as much the low carbon fuel standard.
I mean that's been in place here for a couple of years now but what happens in 2015 is as part of the AB32 is fuels under the cap where there is a fee collected from the motorists and given to the government and that fee based upon carbon prices right now would translate into about a $0.10 to $0.15 per gallon additional charge for the consumers.
And we've been very clear that we will add that fee on to the bills and pass it directly back on to the government and we don't see a lot of impact on demand in the short term and it's probably improved like you just said because of lower crude oil prices.
But we don't see a lot of impact on demand in the short term because of that fee.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jason Smith on for Doug.
Greg I might have missed this in your prepared remarks but the $75 million in CapEx that you guys pushed up this year what's driving that? And is that something we should expect to show up again in '15? It's timing of just execution of the projects and some of the stuff we have committed to towards the end of the year that's just going to fall into 2015.
So what we'll do Jason is we'll lay out a clear capital budget plan at the Analyst Meeting that we'll take into consideration the changes this year and then what we want to do in the next couple of years on a go-forward basis.
It does not have an impact on any part of our business that change.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And you mentioned I think in answer to Ed's question about running well in an environment where I think a lot of your peers were down.
What are you guys seeing in terms of industry downtime on the West Coast in the next few months? Everything that we've seen between now and the end of the year that the downtime is relatively light.
Research Division</strong> And maybe into the beginning of next year? I don't know if that's too far out at this point but...
Well it's not strong as a downtime it's also relatively light into the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one for me is I think you mentioned earlier in talking about ANS we've seen ANS Bakken narrow quite a bit.
I think it's about $9 right now and of your transport cost I think you also talked about $9.50.
Has that impacted your views on running Bakken crude oil at Anacortes? It has not over time no.
Research Division</strong> And so the third thing I mean you guys -- is it because you guys are really paying less than the crude price we're seeing on the screen or is it because of the product uplift you guys are getting? I mean we have a system that gathers right from the wellheads.
So we collect value all the way along from what we buy from the producers.
So we do have a little bit different position because of our logistical system in North Dakota.
Your next question comes from the line of Cory Garcia from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So taking a look at the Uinta oil pipeline project and recognizing you guys are still in sort of the engineering feasibility stage of that so more I guess from a conceptual point of view with December Analyst Day sort of coming up do you feel with TLLP with this recently closed or soon to close acquisition are we at a point where logistics company has the scale in your eyes to actually co-invest on a project of that scale and on sort of a meaningful amount? I mean that's -- yes we do think that's a possibility.
We haven't determined how we'll go forward with that but that is definitely an option.
But it could be done either through Tesoro or Tesoro Logistics.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And I guess we've also heard sort of changing topics here.
Some of your competitors have said sort of the Gulf Coast heavy market particularly Maya has been retired in recent months and arguably Maya has its own sort of independent dynamics.
But any color on the LATAM? Heavy or medium barrels in north end sort of a much lighter crude slate across your West Coast system.
Is that really simply a function of filling in some top-ins in light of stronger gas cracks you guys have seen or is there something on the crude side that is pushing you more toward a lighter barrel.
No the crude distillate on the West Coast haven't changed a lot for the crudes that you're talking about and -- but if you recall I did mention we have -- we're having good success in trying some different crudes there.
I think I mentioned we've run over 20 different crudes just this year in Los Angeles as we look forward for the crude position.
Then we also intend to deliver Canadian heavy into California by rail this quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from that line of Mr.
Mohit Bhardwaj from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Greg just the first one on QEPM.
If you look at the synergy expenses do we have an idea how much those might be? You said -- the integration expenses I'm sorry? Around $20 million.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the $250 million to $275 million number how much of that is because you guys would be resigning the keep hold [ph] contracts with QEPFS and because of that the fee would increase for QEPM but Tesoro would have to take the commodity exposure to that? Well there are no changes in the contracts.
We inherent the existing contracts the way they are.
So that part does not change.
We have stated that we intend to do a contract with Tesoro and the commodity exposure will -- from this QEP Field Service acquisition will move from Tesoro Logistics to Tesoro as part of the transaction.
We want to manage that within our portfolio of commodities.
Mohit just one clarification the $20 million is the synergy savings that we'll get as part of the acquisition as we got closer to Day 1 close which will probably -- we have a chance of getting that done.
At the Analyst Day we'll talk to you about integration process and what this cost will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And just on California synergies so Carson City has been running through the system for 5 full quarters now and if you were just trying to match up some of the numbers that you gave us on a per barrel basis unit cost if you compare for the last 2 quarters of 2013 versus the first 3 quarters here they've actually gone up.
And on the capture side if I compare with Tesoro Index it was close to 100% for the last 6 months and last year and today it is for the first 9 months around 110%.
So you do see the 10% uplift.
Is that the right way to look at it? Or how should we think about just matching up some of the numbers that you provided us? Yes the way you looked at it is fine.
The big change in costs though is attributable to natural gas prices.
And you talked about the higher cost it's due to natural gas.
Research Division</strong> Very well.
And final one for me energy transfer and we're looking at the pipeline.
DAPL and energy transport crude pipeline it will start from the Bakken.
Does it provide additional opportunities for Bakken area storage hub and what might that look like? Yes it potentially does.
It's too early to know for sure about that but it definitely because of our position there it has some potential opportunity with what they're trying to do.
There are no further questions.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Nigel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO; and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which were filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosures and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Brian.
I'll review some highlights of our results talk about our outlook and then hand the call over to Greg.
We are pleased to report our 2014 results which represent our record level of earnings for Tesoro.
Net income from continuing operations was $872 million or $6.67 per diluted share versus $392 million or $2.85 per diluted share for the full year 2013.
Excluding special items we delivered $887 million or $6.79 per diluted share versus last year's $383 million or $2.79 per diluted share.
This translated to adjusted EBITDA of $2.29 billion.
For the full year 2014 the results from discontinued operations included a loss of $29 million versus income of $20 million for the full year 2013.
The results shown in discontinued operations related to our Hawaii business.
In the fourth quarter of this year we incurred a charge for expected regulatory maintenance work as required by the sales agreement.
For the fourth quarter 2014 we reported earnings from continuing operations of $172 million or $1.34 per diluted share that compares to a net loss from continuing operations in the fourth quarter last year of $4 million or negative $0.03 per diluted share.
Excluding special items the company earned a $187 million or $0.46 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
This adjusted EPS for the $1.46 excludes $0.12 related to a few special items.
These are primarily related to an expense of $0.09 per diluted share related to integration cost associated with the completion of TLLPs $2.5 billion 2014 Rockies Natural Gas business acquisition and the inventory charge due to the lower of cost-to-market valuation of $0.20 per diluted share this is a result of the significant decline in crude oil and product prices.
$0.03 per share for throughput efficiency receivables from the Rockies Natural Gas business and finally we excluded the benefit of $0.20 per diluted share related to a legal settlement.
As you look at our performance this quarter there are couple of additional items that affected results but were not part of our initial guidance for the quarter nor were they adjusted out of the EPS.
The following two items had a negative impact of $0.37 per diluted share.
These items included $69 million of compensation related expenses for Tesoro and $17 million environmental accrual in our logistics business.
The compensation related expenses represent approximately $37 million of annual incentive compensation expenses which were crude in Q4 based on our strong 2014 earnings performance.
The results were $32 million of variable based stock compensation expenses related to the significant upward movement in our share price in the quarter.
And finally the Tesoro Logistics environmental accrual for approximately $17 million related for the August 2013 crude oil pipeline release at Tioga North Dakota.
This represents an increase in the remediation cost associated with that release expected to be spent over multiple years.
Let’s review each of the segments starting with refining.
Operating income was $151 million for the quarter compared to $107 million last year.
2014 full year operating income was $1.29 billion compared to $873 million in 2013.
Throughput for the quarter was 808 000 barrels per day or 95% utilization.
Total throughput for 2014 was 825 000 barrels per day or 97% utilization.
This was a record daily production level for Tesoro and was a direct result of our operational excellence and safety improvement focus.
Direct manufacturing in the fourth quarter of 2014 relative to the third quarter were up $0.12 per barrel to $5.44 a barrel.
The Tesoro Index was $9.45 per barrel for the quarter.
The overall gross margin for the quarter was $11.08 per barrel or 117% of the Tesoro Index.
The 2014 operating income improvements have been achieved under a flat Tesoro Index which averaged $10.90 per barrel in 2014 and $10.85 per barrel in 2013.
Operating income in logistics segment was $37 million up $16 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
The substantial growth has been driven by increased throughput volume in the High Plains system in North Dakota and significant growth from the Southern California distribution system.
On December 2 2014 TLLP completed the $2.5 billion acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas business marking a significant step towards our vision of creating a full service integrated logistics company.
As part of this transition Tesoro acquired an additional $500 million of TLLP units which brings our total ownership to 28.2 million units or 36% of the outstanding LP units.
The declared fourth quarter GP distributions are expected to be around $16 million or $65 million annualized.
This is a 15% increase from what our GP distributions were last quarter.
The retail segment's record operating income was $195 million for the quarter.
We experienced higher same-store fuel sales during the quarter of 1.5% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
The retail segments record operating income in the fourth quarter was the result of favorable market conditions resulting from strong demand and decreasing crude oil prices.
Lower retail prices have resulted in strong consumer demand and sales from our ARCO Shell and our expanded Exxon and Mobil retail networks.
2014 was a record full year for our retail segment with $424 million of segment operating income.
These outstanding results demonstrate the strategic value of our integrated business model.
Corporate and non-allocated cost were $101 million including $4 million of corporate depreciation.
This is higher than our guidance and run rate of $60 million due to higher compensation related costs that I mentioned a moment ago.
Let's now focus on cash and capital structure.
Consolidated sources of cash included a quarterly EBITDA of $489 million and changes in working capital and other items of about $270 million as well as TLLPs debt and equity proceeds of $2.1 billion to fund the acquisition.
Uses of cash include the $2.5 billion acquisition cost capital and turnaround spending of about $420 million Tesoro and TLLP shareholder distributions and buybacks of about $220 million and cash interest and taxes of about $240 million.
Even after investing $400 million in income capital projects $500 million in TLLP and returning $500 million to investors in the form of share repurchases we ended the year with a strong cash balance of $1 billion.
Total consolidated debt was $4.3 billion Tesoro's portion was under $1.7 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to capitalization ratio was 27%.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of approximately $2.2 billion on a corporate revolver.
During the fourth quarter Tesoro returned about $187 million to shareholders through the purchase of nearly 2.2 million shares for $150 million as well as regular quarterly dividend of $37 million.
Tesoro completed the previously existing $1 billion share repurchase program during 2014.
Based upon the substantial business improvements made and the resulting improvements in cash generation we also announced today the Board of Directors has approved an increase in the regular quarterly dividend by 40% to $0.425 per share.
Turning now to the first quarter outlook.
Please see the PowerPoint slides posted on our website for Q1 outlook on production levels cost per barrel depreciation and other items.
This guidance assumes the strike continues on through the end of the first quarter as we are prepared to continue safely operating our facilities.
The throughput and manufacturing cost assume our Martinez facility will remain terminal operations until the end of the strike moreover we are in a process of developing plans to restart the facility the guidance figures may change if the strike concludes prior to the end of the first quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Steven.
2014 was a very successful year for the company.
We continue to build upon the foundation by focusing on our strategic priorities and the company is well positioned to continue creating significant value.
We exceeded the distinctive performance objectives we laid out for the company and have continued to transform Tesoro with a $2.5 billion acquisition of the Natural Gas Business within Tesoro Logistics.
Not only did we achieve record financial results last year in nearly every business segment but also had excellent safety and operational performance.
Our continued focus on those objectives has led to 2014 being the safest year in Tesoro’s history and has allowed us our refining assets to run over 98% availability.
In 2014 we returned over $600 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases and invested an additional $500 million in Tesoro Logistics maintaining our 36% ownership of TLLP.
We are very pleased with the results of all segments of our business during the fourth quarter.
We achieved a 117% capture rate of the Tesoro Index realized record retail results and continue to grow logistics with the closing of the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas business.
We have a few strategic updates since our Analyst Day in December.
As you are well aware the United Steel Workers Union has not reached a contract agreement and has declared a strike at several locations across the country.
We were notified late on January 31 at the USW Represented Employees at our Anacortes Washington Refinery the Carson Portion of our Los Angeles California Refinery; and our Martinez Refinery filed notices of intent to strike affective February 1.
Our comprehensive contingency planning has prepared us to safely operate our facilities.
We successfully completed the transitions and are operating the Carson Portion of our Los Angeles Refinery and our Anacortes Refinery.
Given the USW decision to strike during planned ongoing maintenance at our Martinez Refinery the safest operating option at the time was to safely idol the remaining process units.
At Tesoro safety is a core value and it is evident in everything we do from operations in our refineries to managing our logistics assets to day to day activities on our headquarters and other location.
Within our refineries we have proactive and progressive personal safety and process safety programs.
Because of the unknown duration of the work stoppage and nature of our business we won’t speculate on the financial impact that this will have on our business.
Our first quarter guidance does take into account the impact on throughout and per barrel operating cost.
The permit process for the Vancouver Energy Project to construct 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail to marine terminal is continuing to progress with Washington State’s Energy Facility Site Evaluation Committee or EFSEC.
EFSEC has begun the adjudicative phase and based on the schedule it's laid out is expected to release the draft environmental impact statement in May of this year.
We still expect EFSEC will submit its recommendation to the Governor of Washington once it completes the adjudicative phase.
We are very pleased with our progress in execution of our goals in 2014.
We delivered $560 million towards the five distinct key performance objectives we laid out.
First delivering the California synergies; second enhancing our gross margin; third driving other business improvements across our system of assets; fourth further growing our logistics business for TLLP; and finally we did all of this while maintaining strong financial discipline.
We exceeded the original targets we laid out back in December of 2013 by 30% or $130 million.
The execution around these goals has led to superior financial results but also leading shareholder results.
Tesoro clearly outperformed the market last year as the best performing energy stock in the S&amp;P500.
Even with the major successes we had in executing and delivering results in 2014 I am truly excited that we have the opportunity to exceed the 2014 improvements this year.
Looking forward we committed to delivering an additional $550 million to $670 million of improvements in 2015.
We expect to deliver $95 million to $125 million towards West Coast improvements a $130 million to $170 towards capturing margin improvements and $325 million to $375 million towards growing logistics.
Achieving these goals along with our 2014 accomplishments we expect to improve Tesoro’s results by over $1 billion in this two year period.
As evidenced through all we have accomplished we continue to drive significant value from our existing asset base and the optimization of our portfolio of assets.
We are continuously looking forward at identifying new ways to grow the value of our business.
We are focused on our commitment to our strategic priorities and maintaining and improving the competitive position of our assets.
We are also committed to drive continuing improvements in our personal and process safety in environmental performance.
And now we will take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning Greg and Steve.
Good morning Neil.
So today we start off on the union negotiations here can you just talk about the timelines recognizing that there are lot of parties involved in leading the negotiations.
And then also you made a comment that you theoretically could restart Martinez even if the strike persist under - how would you approach doing that? So the first answer to question the negotiations at a national level are being conducted by Shell like you're probably aware and so Shell represents the industry to get national negotiations and those discussions are ongoing as we speak.
At a local level we have negotiated with all of our local market units and are actually in a very good place locally so we are very comfortable where we stand with the local level.
And then finally Martinez I think it's important that we were in that process of a major maintenance effort to refinery when the USW the international elected to call a strike and we were just a few days away from turning the process units over from maintenance to the operating groups so that they could began the start-up process.
Because of the timing of the strike we made the decision that it was in our best interest to be very responsible and just shut down the remaining units because one of the most critical things is the restart of the refinery after it's been down for maintenance.
So since that time we are now developing plans to go back and restart the refinery and get it up into an operating condition and that's what we're working on right now and we'll continue to do that so we can do it in a very safe and efficient manner.
Thanks Greg.
And then on the Pacific Northwest you had a terrific quarter last quarter it was a little softer here in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about sequentially anything that might have changed 4Q versus 3Q in the Northwest? The Balkan discs were just little bit weaker in the fourth quarter because of the movement in the crude oil prices versus the prior quarter.
We're still moving the same we're still moving about the same amount of Balkan crude oil to the Pacific Northwest but the differentials were just weaker.
And - last question for me Greg just a relative split between buybacks and dividends as you go forward here nice 40% dividend raise but just as you think about - how you think about allocating capital to the buyback versus the dividend any color there would be appreciated.
Neil our approach regarding dividend is to maintain a competitive dividend relative to our peer so we look at yield and we look at the payout ratio and that's always been our intent to do that.
The dividend the stock buyback as here Steven - maybe both Steven and I mentioned in our comments that we completed the $1 billion buyback that was authorized by the Board in this year will just begin our buyback of the next $1 billion that was authorized in the summer of 2014.
So it's really that's how we look at the allocation between the two.
Thank you very much Greg.
Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Phil Gresh JP Morgan.
Good morning.
Good morning Phil.
First question just a follow-up on the strike should we think that there might be any impact just in the near term cost of synergy capture projects in terms of - kind of the ability to execute on that in the first quarter or how do you think about that? Not at this time Phil as we have our plans and we had contingency plans developed in the event of any type of work stoppage and at the same time we have our plans that are really build out around all of the operations to drive the improvements across the businesses I just talked about.
So we do not see any issues with delivering those today.
Got it okay.
And the guidance on the throughput outside of California was a bit lower than what I was thinking.
Is it having our maintenance quarter just maybe how to think about that first quarter maybe versus what the full year might look like for the other regions relative to 2014? Yes the guidance - we had Martinez down for maintenance which was planned maintenance as we just spoke about we also have - towards the end of the first quarter we have Salt Lake City going down for our completion of the conversion project that we have been working on now for about three years which allows us to process higher levels of waxing crude and increase the yield improve the yield that's going down and then we also have Anacortes towards the end of the first quarter going down for planned maintenance also.
Got it okay so maybe the full year should still be fairly similar in terms of operating rates outside of California? Yes it will be.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the dividend buyback question obviously you are talking about competing on a yield as well as payout ratio nice problem to have with your stock going up so much but your yield with this huge increases around 2% some of your peers are actually now targeting something in the 3% range.
So I'm just curious how you're thinking about that? Yes I feel at this stage we knew the 2% is a competitive yield considering the dynamics of stock movements and appreciation and we also look at the total return so not only we look at the yield we also look at the total shareholder return against we compare that.
So I would say some moving - it kind of moves what I understand.
Sure okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Thanks.
Good morning Greg.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Greg I guess the strike is probably not something you're feeling particularly good about right now given the pipeline under the system but obviously it's had a big impact on margins and the region.
I'm just wondering if you can help frame for us what - how you see the prognosis for the West Coast generally assuming that things come back to normal.
Do we end up with kind of more structural tightening for the whole of 2015 as a result of the shortages or is there a fix that brings back - buy things where I can take it normal [ph]? As you would call in the past Doug as we've kind of laid out the basic fundamentals of the West Coast market when we look at supply demand inventory levels refinery utilization all of those factors have indicated; first time from a gasoline standpoint that - hope you looked at the last period of time of operating a relatively balanced market slightly on gasoline which is being exported and then a little bit longer on diesel but a very high utilization rates for the industry and so as we see going now into 2015 we already - the impact of the downtime Martinez was already felt by the market because it had been down before the disruption and it's only been a few days since that's happened that we shut down the rest of the processing unit and we'll develop our plan to be able to restart the refining but at the same time you also have a number of other maintenance activities going on across the regions that will continue to have an impact on supply and demand.
So our overall outlook as we've stated in the past is that the fundamentals of the West Coast market are very supportive to the margin outlook in that so we see versus historical margin after West Coast being very attractive.
I don't know if you would be able to answer this one but it's - when these kinds of things happen one of the things I struggled with is the relative profitability of the LA Complex relative to Martinez.
So just - qualitatively can you frame for us which of the two refinery is really the bigger driver of margin debt or are they both kind of more or less the same? On a relative basis the Los Angeles Complex has a higher profitability contribution to the company than Martinez.
It's helpful thanks a lot.
Last one from me is I think in Steven’s prepared remarks he talked about identifying or noting strong demand as a result of the lower oil price on your retail business I am just wondering if you could put some numbers around that because obviously same-store demand - is something we're all watching in terms of various tangible impacts so any color on that? Thank you.
Yes probably two points Doug one is year-on-year 14% versus 13% up around about 1.5% for us on same-store sales.
And in the first few weeks of this year we're up slightly so far but not anything significant but it's real early in this time of the year when we already had a pretty strong January of 2013.
Great really helpful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake Credit Suisse.
Yes good morning.
Just a small question on the USW impact on Martinez is there going to be some big sort of - I guess product import or cost as well as the cost of not having the refinery run just as you're trying to adjust the systems and meet your retail demand? We're very confident that we have plans in place to be able to meet all of our supply requirements for all of our customers across the system.
And so as we look out overtime we feel - I can provide that we will be able to meet that and any purchases in that were done at a market basis so we don't see any impact.
Great.
So coming back to QEPSS and OPEC I mean obviously oil prices gas prices NGL prices were fallen since the Analyst Day and I'm just wondering if you could put some color in terms of the $400 million of high return capital projects that you're looking to put in place there and further growth beyond that how is the term of the conversations or the pace of your activity in that area changed as a result of the fallen commodities? It's a good question.
The majority of those projects that comprise the organic growth capital for Tesoro Logistics were in development committed to by our customers and are advancing without any slowdown.
The only item that we have is the expand the reversal of the high plains pipeline which were in open seas and right now we'll have an indication here in the next a little bit but most of our work in the North Dakota with the pipelines has been the core of the production fields and helps drive cost savings and efficiencies for the producers.
So we're quite positive on the outlook for both the natural gas business in our area and the Balkan crude oil business.
And one of it was the question around attracting additional third-party volumes to the existing system now that it was under the TLLP banner as supposed to QEPSS is there be any evidence of that actually occurring? We can't say it could - no you're right it is early but we've had good engagement with our targeted customers in that and it's in early discussions to identify opportunities in that but there are some encouraging opportunities that were in development.
Okay.
Very final small question any derivative gains in the quarter I know in the second quarter there was a big cost for you called out the third quarter was a bit flat and I would have just assumed as oil fell there would be a derivative gain so just trying to get a sense of if not why not.
Yes let me ask Steven to respond to your question Ed.
Hey Ed you know the second quarter was sort of general approach to managing our derivative portfolios it's really to put hedges in places that all said are long duration water bond shipments.
So in general you shouldn't see any kind of net drop down in derivatives.
We only saw that back in the second quarter because of some dynamics right at the end of the quarter that created some volatility.
So now in general I look at these numbers kind of assuming that that derivative portfolio simply was offset by physical positions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brad Heffern RBC Capital Market.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Brad.
So some of your competitors have been talking about just a sheer volume of waterborne crudes that are currently attempting to find their way into our refinery somewhere I'm wondering if you are seeing the same sort of benefit on the West Coast from an optimization standpoint as your peers on the Gulf might be seeing? Crude supply is - has good availability of all the crudes that we want to get access to there is nothing unusual the West Coast wouldn’t behave exactly like the Gulf Coast does from that standpoint but we have good access to all of the types of crudes that we want to be able to bring into our system as you would expect.
Okay understood.
And obviously there is very large content going in the market right now are there any particular way where you're seeing benefit from that? Not really I mean we've got our pricing in place and the crude discs and everything is kind of where we would expect them to be in our - versus our plan and so nothing unusual at this stage.
Okay.
And then I think that the AB32 fuels under the camp - component is now out in the market is there - have you been able to offset that additional charge to the consumer in terms of fuel margins? You are exactly right as of January 1 of this year the portion of the regulation where the tail pipe emission went into effect happened and we as a company choose to enumerate that on the bill elating to all customers so it is a direct pass through from us to the customers and then repayment back to the State of California and that's gone very very smoothly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Good morning.
Jeff from Simmons.
Greg I was hoping you might be willing to share a little bit on any stress testing you might have done with the dividend increase did you review that based on historical margins say - they don't know margins or some kind of forward looking scenario analysis and should we assume the EBITDA enhancements kind of permanently raise the profitability of the company? Let me ask Steven Jeff to respond to your question.
Hey Jeff.
We - I think that the starting point as Greg mentioned is around capital deployment and having a balanced approach to that making sure we've got adequate liquidity on the balance sheet to deal with any type of volatility that can be there making sure we've got capital deployed this quarter high return growth projects; and then having a dividend overtime that's competitive with the industry not only just looking at yield but also looking at our payout ratio and making sure that we're balanced on that as well Shell purchases.
And so we do look at dividends and all these deployment of cash on a long term basis and try to look across the cycle.
So for us as we look back if you go back to 2010 even where the company was earning about $500 million of EBITDA versus 2014 at $2.3 billion as we showed at Investor Day there is really no market uplift in there really is business improvement projects since the improvements in our portfolio so as we look forward and we think about the cash generating capability of the portfolio it's much stronger today than it was back in those periods of time that you mentioned.
So we do take that into account as well as look at new stress test the margins over the cycle and feel good about the decision that we've made.
And now with the upcoming maintenance plan for quarters is there any potential impacts if in any event the strike is extended? Would - is there a possibility you might delay that maintenance or is it not likely to be impacted? No at this point in time we are advancing forward with our plans to - we have everything in place to be able to do the maintenance at the refinery and so we see no disruptions or distractions to that work right now.
So that would not be ideal delay in marketing as you are in a position to move forward with that? Yes completely move forward as planned.
Thanks for your comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Paul Cheng Barclays.
Hey guys good morning.
Greg I - maybe I got you wrong last slide seems like there is something come across - talking about the West Coast worker on strike is that in any shape or form is going to impact on the loading and unloading of all your product for the refinery operation? No.
Paul that does not have an impact on our movement of tankers on the West Coast.
Okay.
But you're right that's going on for some time.
Right so we should not concern that this will have an additional element that impacting operation? No not at this stage.
And I'm wondering if you will be willing to share the insight I know you are not representing the industry on the national level what is the biggest point on the negotiation at this point? I think it's been pretty well spelled out by the media I think both the union has been clear there is a desire to try to have more of the maintenance activity done in the refining system by represented workers from the USW.
Okay.
So that's the biggest [ph] from the owner’s standpoint? That is one of the most - that's one of the primary things.
It's always our goal to be able to run our operations and use the safest most efficient ways to do our maintenance work.
And the industry historically they have done a good job on try to using the management in the non-union worker to maintaining normal operation if that's only - how long I mean that far you can go because it means people are not iron men at some point they get tired for overtime.
Do you think that you guys are pretty comfortable two months three months four months or that you think that this is too premature you don't want even one to speculate on that? First the industry hasn’t had a strike like this for 35 years so it's been a long time.
But everyone goes through pretty extensive planning because the people working in the refineries have to be certified so there is extensive training planning that goes on to do that and we feel very comfortable that we can continue on running with the staffing levels we have the trained and the experienced people we have operating the refineries and it's a very long period of time Paul.
Right.
Greg I don't know - part of my angle to understand because it never happened since I've been covering this space.
Let’s assume that if this strike go on for really long time is there an exit strategy or an option for the industry at some point you can start to hire permanent replacement? That's probably not something to talk about on a call like this Paul I think that's a strategy that every company would have to look at and see what's the right thing to do.
No no I'm talking about from a law standpoint from the labor law standpoint is there an option to allow the industry to do that? I don't know exactly we don't intended to go on that long but that's something maybe we can talk about at a later point in time.
Okay would do.
And that in terms of your balance sheet it's actually very strong - still very strong in the CCAP [ph] as you generally excess free cash are you comfortable with the current debt level in CCAP or that you may think that you want to reduce it from what? Let Steven comment around our capital structure.
Yes as we look at CCORP level having a total debt capital under 30% is a very comfortable place to operate.
We've talked about that overtime continuing to make improvements principally in the business to grow into an investment grade rating is the path forward so based on the overall cost-to-capital the cash generation of the business the flexibility we have with our current balance sheet delevering the balance sheet right now isn’t the highest priority but we've been - we have been doing that and we'll continue to move in that direction of investment grade but I think it will be stable over 30% and we're down to the 26% 27% level now I think that's a healthy place to be it gives us the most options.
Okay.
Final one do you guys buy your domestic crude through some form of CMA - taking into consideration of the interest rate or that you don't really do that? We have a variety of different ways that we price the domestic crude that we do so we use a number of different ways to do it Paul.
Okay thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Yes good morning.
Good morning Roger.
I guess - interesting question you mentioned earlier as part of the strategy continuing to grow and in logistics side of the business - we're seeing some valuation changes there certainly relative to the performance of the refineries I was just wondering as you look out at future acquisitions in that area or investment opportunities what - how has that market changed since the Analyst Day and anything else you can add on that? Well you've seen a couple of transactions in that space in the last little bit some of them that are incredibly attractive I don't know for the seller anyway very attractive level.
So we - I think it's little better we either see kind of how the dust settles in that area and I think it's a matter of what type of assets for sale in that but no real good indication yet if it's going to change materially from what we have experienced over the last couple of years but I think we'll have to monitor and see what happens.
Okay so the status grow [ph] at this point? Yes from our standpoint.
Okay.
And then you mentioned the Port of Vancouver I was curious what are the - sort of hurdles or is there a specific date or event that has to occur - the we should be watching for here in terms of - is there a drop-dead date to get this to the Governor for his review? Can you remind us what amount of time he has to do the review before he has to render a decision one way or the other? Yes so there - it's not completely black and white as far as specific dates it was a positive sign that the counsellors - as we stated elected to move forward with the adjudicative process and so that process begins and depending on the number of interveners those who are - have questions about the project and those who supported get the opportunity to go forward.
And so the administrative law judge will manage that process of going forward so that for us was a very positive step forward by the EFSEC Council.
And then once they complete all of that work and they submit their recommendation the Council does to the Governor and the Governor has 60 days to give an opinion on that.
That we still feel very very good about the value of the project and every - all of the issues and everything that you deal with to get the permit seems to be progressing at a slower pace but progressing well.
Okay.
And if the Governor were to disapprove is that - you go to the next option or is there an appeal process for that? I mean I'm just - I'm not trying to prejudice the decision but just trying to understand what would be the next if it doesn't go forward at POV [ph]? I think we're very confident that they will approved but in the event that happens there is an appeal process.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chi Chow Tudor Pickering Holt.
Thanks good morning.
Hey Chi.
Hi just a couple of more questions on TLLP.
With the high level of inward rigs being laid down what are the possible impacts on your gathering business going forward in this environment? At this stage Chi as we evaluated our TLLP operations through with discussions with producers and what we see going on we do not see any significant impact today with what's occurred so far it's something we'll have to monitor as we go forward but we do not see any significant impact today.
Okay.
I guess you noticed that you've collected on a deficiency payment in the fourth quarter can you comment on take or pay type provisions you might have with your customer commitment and are these collections going to be a trend going throughout this year? If you look historically at that business you tend to see some lumpiness with these deficiency payments typically in the second quarter and the fourth quarter.
And it's just a function of the timing of when this billings usually take place we do expect to continue to see this type of - and this was not unexpected this was part of the overall EBITDA level that we set for 2015 for the business so in the range as we gave you these during there so we do expect them to continue.
Okay.
So this is nothing unusual as far as the volume drop offs or anything like that to this point? No it's normal deficiency payments.
On the retail side do you have a statement regarding conversion of your company operated sites to MSO [ph] can you explain what's going on there? Yes to a certain we have an operating model in our marketing business the MSO stands for multi-site operator so we have agreements with independent business people who then go in and take a number of sites which they then operate we provide the gas and the pricing for the gasoline and they run the inside operations of the store.
So we elected to - so we had a model where we had some company operated and a lot of this MSO as you mentioned Chi and last year at the beginning of the year we elected to make the decision to take it to a full MSO model which we then completed at the end of December.
It has a slight improvement in profitability for us by operating the business that way versus us continuing to operate it.
How does that impact your in-store merchandize margins are you still capturing that or is that going to end going forward here? You know because they operate the station we have least arrangements and/or less so the net impact from a company standpoint is a slight positive taking into consideration fuel sales inside sales and the cost from leasing stations and everything like that.
So you would not see a significant difference from the financial standpoint.
I guess one final question on your turnaround guidance for 2015 it looks like it bumped up to $280 million which I believe is higher than what you laid out in the Investor Day meeting.
Can you talk about any changes there? Yes the difference between what we said at the Analyst Meeting and what we just said here you're exactly right this is slightly higher and it should be including the catalyst in that in our turnaround cost it wasn't part of our plan - part of our original number.
So the level of activity is unchanged Chi it's just - we didn't lump the two together when we talked about it at the end of December.
Okay great thanks I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Faisal Khan Citigroup.
Good morning guys.
Hi Faisal.
Hi just a few questions.
The first thing is I just want to understand a little bit about the NGL exposure you sort of housed at the corporate level so I understand that all that exposure the commodity price level for the key PMS [ph] that was sort of - further recontracted at the this sort of level.
So with NGL prices having dropped off and gas prices have been dropped off as much as they have we have seen a lot of sort of - degradation in guidance for a lot of the GMP companies in the midstream space let’s just try to understand how much of a drag is this sort of lower gas and NGL price environment on the overall sort of corporate earnings and then where to look for that in your results? Yes I want to first correct we elected to take the commodity exposure from TLLP and put that into deferral [ph] because it allows us to look at all of our NGLs overall from both - what we consume and what we sell.
The terms of the agreement are not at material impact in any way from Tesoro standpoint so as you correctly stated the market has been hit pretty hard in the last period of time here with the fact spread and things like that but even at the level where it is now and when you look forward there is no material impact whatsoever on Tesoro and it's - you can't see it in the numbers it's in our cost of goods sold number you don't see it.
Okay.
In the way I was looking at it is that these guys are doing $230 million $240 million in EBITDA those assets before and they still had a significant TOP in exposure so even with the degradation in the commodity prices it's not big enough impact here to overall results I just want to make sure I understand that.
That's correct.
Okay.
And then on the wholesale business - on your wholesale business I was wondering if you can give us a little bit of color in terms of the performance of that business in 2014 over 2013.
Is there a way that sort of talk about the margins overall margins in 2014 versus 2013 to see sort of what the uplift has been over the course of the year? The wholesale business has embedded in our refineries result so there isn’t anything that we should speak about on a year-on-year basis the overall marketing business has performed extremely well but we don't talk about the wholesale business separately.
Okay.
And then as I'm looking at the TLLP sort of dropdowns just assets of Tesoro to TLLP and I'm looking at the sort of the target of $150 million to $225 million in EBITDA by 2017 how much of that EBITDA is associated with sort of the wholesale business that can be put into the MLP? That we haven't defined any of that yet we know that we - as you recall we've talked about the overall portfolio of assets that could be sold from Tesoro to TLLP we said it's in access of $0.5 billion of EBITDA but we did not specifically identify what assets and when we would drop those down.
So we don't - we haven't put that into our plans going out to 2017.
Okay.
So the wholesale business is not part of those plans in the long term guidance for TLLP? It is part of the overall portfolio Faisal it's just part of the overall but not part of the specific plans to get to 2017.
Sure okay.
And then just - in the current market environment for spreads and for - sorry differentials is there any change to the sort of - the feedstock advantage that you guys had outlined that you would sort of be able to extract this year in 2015 so the $125 million I believe is sort of feedstock advantage in that pie on the Analyst Day you talked about you said - does that change at all in the current environment or is that still business as usual? No where we see the differentials and kind of how we looked at the market even before we've had a pretty dramatic collapse in crude oil prices.
It seems that we've identified that work and we do not see a change in that for 2015.
Okay.
And then a change in the outlook for the Xylene market in moving volumes to Asia in the long run is that still - even with the crude price dropped does that have any impact on the long term outlook for that market? No we - and we actually approved the Xylene project at our Board meeting yesterday to move forward and we announced the terms in what we're doing on that tomorrow so that project will be moving forward.
Okay understood.
And then just on the - on WCS and Balkan and moving that into the - moving those volumes into the West Coast understanding that at the Vancouver facility that that process is still ongoing.
Is there a desire to sort of increase the amount of WCS you're reeling in right now to California? I know you're maxed out at roughly 20 000 a day but is there ability for you to expand the facilities that plain has the field and move more WCS into central California? Well the movement just started in December if the Canadian have that we're moving into field and that will ramp up as the facility comes up so we'll take our full share that we've contractually committed to move in the Canadian crude into our refineries.
And is that still economic in the current environment to do that? I haven't looked at it I need to - we haven't - I haven't looked at it in the last little bit those things bounce around a lot you just have to look and see where they are overtime I don't know Faisal this time right now.
Okay fair enough.
I appreciate it I appreciate all the answers to the questions.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carolyn and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are on listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to now turn the call over to Sam Ramraj.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO; and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement of the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Director &amp; Vice President</strong> Thanks Sam.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'll start by reviewing the highlights of our first quarter results discuss our outlook for the second quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported first quarter 2015 net income from continuing operations of $145 million or $1.15 per diluted share.
This is compared to $79 million or $0.59 per diluted share for the first quarter of last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter excluding special items was $489 million compared to $362 million last year.
The refining segment's adjusted EBITDA was $266 million for the quarter compared to $285 million for the first quarter of 2014.
Our total refinery throughput for the quarter was 696 000 barrels a day or 82% utilization.
The Tesoro Index was $16.71 per barrel in the first quarter of 2015 with a realized gross refining margin of $11.77 a barrel or 70% of the Tesoro Index.
This compares to a realized gross refining margin of $10.80 per barrel or 122% of the index the last year.
This quarter's gross margin and the lower capture rates year-over-year are attributable to the combination of higher system throughput during January when margins were lower during the quarter the impact of the labor disruption and the impacts of our turnarounds.
Capture rates in the first quarter were also lower as a result of running more VGO in our California refineries due to the work stoppage and unplanned industry outages.
Direct manufacturing costs in the first quarter of 2015 increased $0.68 per barrel over last year to $6.33 a barrel.
The increase was a result of lower throughput and other another impacts caused by the labor disruptions.
This was partially offset by lower energy prices.
The Logistics segment's adjusted EBITDA was $168 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $71 million for the same period last year.
The strong operating income improvement was driven by the High Plains Pipeline expansion and reversal project the first full quarter contribution from our acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas business and contributions from the West Coast Logistics Assets drop-down.
The declared first quarter general partner distributions are expected to be around $14 million or $56 million on a annualized basis.
But when you combine Q1 LP and GP declared distributions this is expected to be $33 million for the quarter which represents an 83% increase from last year.
The distribution growth along with solid execution and integration of the acquisition continued to demonstrate the enhanced value creation from our logistics strategy.
Moving to retail EBITDA was $138 million up from $29 million in the first quarter of last year.
Same-store fuel sales in the first quarter were higher by approximately 2.5%.
Strong demand and favorable market conditions resulted in significantly improved margins.
First quarter retail fuel margins were $0.19 a gallon.
This is an increase of $0.10 from the first quarter of 2014.
Moving now to capital and the balance sheet.
Capital spending for the quarter was $194 million for Tesoro and $66 million for Tesoro Logistics.
We still anticipate our full-year 2013 capital spending to be approximately $600 million for Tesoro and approximately $450 million for Tesoro Logistics.
Turnaround spending in the first quarter was $77 million.
The total first quarter turnarounds catalysts and other deferred expenditures were $83 million.
We expect full-year 2015 turnaround expenditures of $286 million and deferred retail branding costs $65 million.
We returned $73 million to shareholders in the first quarter including the purchase of 300 000 of the company's shares for $19 million.
At the end of the first quarter we still have $981 million remaining under our authorized $1 billion share repurchase program and plan to continue repurchasing shares in 2015.
Our corporate and unallocated costs on a pre-tax basis were $84 million in the first quarter.
This was substantially higher year-over-year by about $46 million and above our guidance due to $28 million of expenses from non-cash variable stock-based compensation.
This is driven by the appreciation in our stock price.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $0.5 billion.
The idling of operations at Martinez resulted in higher crude inventory along with the higher planned inventory ahead of the Anacortes and Salt Lake City refinery turnarounds.
This led to a large use of working capital during the first quarter of 2015.
But we do expect the majority of these working capital impacts to reverse in the second quarter as we come out of our turnarounds at the refineries.
Now turning to our outlook.
Based on the strong margin environment and the progress we are making with our business improvement plans we expect to deliver significant EBITDA growth in 2015.
In the set of slides supporting our first quarter results and outlook we provide the details of our planned throughput manufacturing costs per barrel and other elements that support the outlook.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steven.
So we managed through a very challenging first quarter due to the labor disruption at three of our West Coast refineries and planned maintenance at three refineries in our system including the extended downtime at the Martinez refinery after the labor disruption.
We are very pleased with the extraordinary effort of our employees who safely operated the Los Angeles and Anacortes refineries for two months during the strike and our Martinez facility operating as a terminal.
Now turning our focus to the second quarter.
The labor disputes were resolved at the beginning of April and the Martinez refinery has been restarted and is running at full utilization.
The planned maintenance at the Anacortes refinery has been completed and it is running at full utilization.
We expect second quarter utilization of between 90% to 95%.
So far the Tesoro Index has averaged about $21 per barrel this quarter.
In California crack spreads have improved related to the unplanned and planned refinery maintenance activities.
In Alaska we have moved over 1.6 million barrels of Bakken crude oil into our system which historically has seen a yield uplift of about $5 to $7 per barrel versus A&amp;S.
As we announced on April 22 we are confident in our ability to deliver our current 2015 plan which is consistent with consensus EBITDA estimates of about $800 million for the second quarter and approximately $2.6 billion for the full year.
Now moving to our logistics business.
We are very pleased with the first quarter results.
We are making substantial progress on our strategy to create a full-service integrated logistics business.
Our newly acquired Rockies natural gas business contributed approximately $75 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter which includes about $8 million in synergies.
Integration is progressing extremely well and we are currently ahead of our target to generate $20 million of annual synergies.
This underscores our capability of integrating large businesses effectively and delivering the synergies.
We are pursuing new natural gas and crude oil opportunities with our customers in both the Rockies and the Bakken regions to improve our earnings and drive additional growth in our business.
We remain committed to expanding our fee-based business backed by strong minimum volume commitments in order to position our business to be successful in any environment.
We also remain focused on future strategic opportunities to grow TLLP's portfolio of logistics assets around our Western U.S.
footprint.
Tesoro expects to offer additional assets to TLLP in the form of a drop-down in the second half of this year.
We expect to continue to examine organic and third-party opportunities to grow TLLP that would fit our strategic footprint.
TLLP remains committed to delivering $625 million to $690 million of EBITDA in 2015.
And as we look to the full-year 2015 for Tesoro we remain committed to delivering the $550 million to $670 million of improvements and accelerating growth through the three areas that we outlined in December of 2014.
First we plan to deliver the West Coast improvements; second to capture margin improvements; third to further grow the logistics business as I just discussed through TLLP; and we will do all of this while maintaining our strong financial discipline.
Turning to strategic update on our projects.
The permitting process for the Vancouver Energy project to construct a 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail-to-marine terminal is continuing to progress with Washington State's Energy Facility Site Evaluation Committee or FSEC.
FSEC has begun the adjudicative phase.
And based on that schedule that has been communicated they expect to release the Draft Environmental Impact Statement during the middle of this year.
FSEC will submit its recommendation to the governor of Washington once it completes the adjudicative phase.
Additionally during the quarter the company approved two complementary projects at the Anacortes refinery that are designed to enhance clean product production including the previously announced $300 million mixed xylenes project.
Now referred to as the Clean Product Upgrade Project this will upgrade and diversify the value of the product slate.
And a $90 million naphtha isomerization project that will allow us to improve our yields while lowering our cost per barrel.
In addition it enables us to comply with the upcoming Tier 3 regulations.
Subject to permitting we expect the startup of the mixed xylene project in 2017 and the isomerization project in 2018.
Also in the second quarter of 2015 the company completed the work on the second phase of the Salt Lake City expansion project.
However we are currently performing some unplanned maintenance on the FCC unit at the refinery.
This expansion project improves yields of gasoline and diesel improves the flexibility of processing crude feedstock and also increases refinery throughput capacity at the refinery by 4 000 barrels per day for a total of 62 000 barrels per day.
The project increases waxy crude oil processing capabilities up to 26 000 barrels per day.
We expect to run about 20 000 barrels per day of waxy crude which is in line with the original project assumptions.
In closing despite a challenging start to the year our first quarter net earnings grew significantly over last year.
Moving forward in 2015 we are clearly focused on executing our business plan and delivering the improvements we have laid out.
And now we will take your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
And stand by for your first question which comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
Greg two questions if I may.
First of all on the MLP.
When you made the acquisition I guess you're getting on with full integration now as you highlighted but you obviously had have some plans based on the drilling activity outlook at that time.
I'm just wondering how things have changed; if you are seeing any slow-down or if your original expectations are still holding up? And I've got a follow-up on the West Coast margins please.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The marketplace out in the Uinta according to our original plan are holding pretty firm at this point in time Doug.
So we don't see any material impact yet.
And more importantly like I mentioned on the call we're actually seeing some interesting opportunities to capture additional volumes on the systems with some projects that we have been developing there.
So we're actually pretty encouraged not only in the Uinta Basin but also in the Bakken as a result of the acquisition.
Okay.
So no change in outlook? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Thanks.
My follow-up is really on capture rates on the West Coast.
Obviously for a number of very obvious reasons you had a challenging first quarter.
But I guess what we're all kind of wrestling with is that when you look at the sector and Tesoro's stock solid performance in particular it's really paralleled the very strong margin recovery in the first quarter; obviously had a lot of one-offs associated with it.
So my question is margins have recovered in the second quarter.
Can you give us some indication as to how your capture rates are trending and whether or not you see any reason to change your long-term margin outlook so that we can capitalize into your stock price? And if not then how long do you think the tightness in the market persists I guess as long as there is a lot of unplanned outages? And I'll leave it there? Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think if you look back at what we said about the overall balances on the West Coast market when you look at what's happening to demand and the demand growth that we've experienced actually over the last few years the production capacity of the refining system and stock levels and that the market in our view is very supportive and relative to what the crack spreads are.
There's no question that during the first quarter with what happened to Tesoro as a result of the disruption at the Martinez refinery because of the labor disruption and then with other operating and planned maintenance things across the whole system it was very supportive to the margin environment there.
So when you look out it appears to us to be still very favorable going forward.
We're not going to project what's going to happen to crack spreads or that.
But when you just look at the drivers of our business it appears to be very very favorable going forward.
I think regarding capture the first quarter your question Doug on capture for us on the West Coast in the first quarter was – Steven alluded to it during his comments.
I mean it was significantly impacted because of we built a tremendous amount of inventory across our system trying to hold crude oil that we had made commitments to buy that we needed to run which we've been running down since that time.
The product that we build in anticipation of turnarounds at Anacortes and Salt Lake City but – and that even though we knew we had labor disruptions we went according to our plans to execute those.
So there was just a lot of noise regarding capture in the first quarter that we think will settle down and works its way out of the system as we go through the second quarter.
All right.
I appreciate the answers Greg.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Brad Heffern from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brad.
Just sticking with the first quarter I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the business improvement goals and how much if at all first quarter set you back? Obviously you've maintained the same EBITDA targets but I would think that some of that has to be because crack spreads have been much better than what you originally anticipated.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think if you focus on your question about the business improvement goals I think yes we were slightly impacted by our delivery in the first quarter primarily because we redeployed hundreds of people to run our refineries.
If you could see what we actually did and how we did it as a company to continue to operate the facilities by redeploying people from all over that definitely took people away from it.
We'll talk more about our improvements the progress we're making after 2Q but we're slightly behind our pace.
We would estimate that we're probably delivering at about 80% or so of our expected rate for 2015 and we're very confident that we have the ability to make that up.
So as you're very much aware Brad in our plans that we presented for 2015 relative to the different areas that I just mentioned there we see delivery in all of those areas for this year.
And we'll be able to deliver the targets that we set out.
Okay.
That's great color.
Thanks.
And then just looking specifically at Mandan.
I was wondering if you've seen an impact on diesel demand there as a result of less drilling in the Bakken and if you can talk about maybe what impact you're expecting to see from Dakota prior in coming online.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our demand for diesel hasn't been impacted up there.
The area has been historically with the growth and the production in the Bakken has been a very very strong demand area for diesel.
As you just mentioned there we haven't seen any impact on that.
And we know that when whatever the project is you're talking about comes online here it puts additional diesel fuel into the market.
But there's been a lot of diesel fuel that's been brought in from other areas by rail and that that will just back that diesel out.
So we don't see an impact a material impact on the market here.
Okay.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Phil Gresh at JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Phil.
The first question is just a follow-up to Doug's question.
And I guess it's a slightly different angle.
With margins being as high as they are right now maybe you could just talk about what challenges there are in terms of if you look back the past year or two you've been able to capture well in excess of 100% of the margin in California.
So when margins are this high are there challenges in hitting that number when you're running full? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The only – probably the biggest impact that we see on the capture rate is that when margins are like this and we're running additional vacuum gas oil through the units that would show up as crude and that it would probably back down our capture rates a little bit.
But the overall ability to capture the crack spread is still very very strong.
That's the only real change that we're doing as running more VGO.
Sure.
Okay.
And with respect to California utilization rates you've run kind of low 90%s for the past 12 to 18 months if I strip out what happened in the first quarter.
So given that the margins are so strong how do you think about your ability to run higher than that moving forward if margins do indeed remain strong? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I actually think we've run around in the high 90%s so I'm not sure Phil what you were referring to in around 90% for California.
California's actually been very very much kind of knocking on the door of 100% for the last several quarters.
And then we were definitely because we've said on Martinez in Q1 impact it's because it was down cold for two months.
But maybe I misunderstood your question.
No okay.
That's all right.
I'll take that one offline.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
That'd be fine.
Yeah.
And then just my last question is just on return of cash.
Is there a certain percent of earnings or free cash flow you're thinking about in terms of what you'd like to return to shareholders each year? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we've been pretty clear.
Our approach to returning cash to shareholders one it's based upon we said we believe that we want to keep about $600 million to $800 million of cash on the balance sheet.
We want to fund our high-return capital programs and then return cash both through dividends and share repurchases to shareholders.
And we made the call in the first quarter when we saw the disruptions because of the labor to back off on our share repurchases because we knew we had a lot of turnaround activity in that.
But we fully expect as I think Steven just said to get back on track here now that we're done with the first quarter share purchases.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you for that question.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert from Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
It's Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Impressive retail performance during the quarter with the 2.5% same sales increases.
Could you talk about some of your efforts there to grow? And perhaps address were you buying product to meet those delivery requirements given the outages in the first quarter? And if so is any of that lingering into the second quarter? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So the 2.5% growth is on a same-store basis as you said Jeff.
So that has not a lot of impact on our growth.
But our growth in the retail is primarily growing the use of the Exxon and the Mobil and the Shell brands in certain geographic areas.
So that's where our real growth is in marketing.
We're seeing so far in the second quarter a good continuation in that growth that we experienced in the first quarter.
I think growth from April was at about 1.6% 1.7% growth in April.
And you're exactly right.
With the disruptions that we had in the first quarter we purchased significant quantities of product to meet our demand and we were able to successfully meet all of the requirements to all our customers during that period of disruption.
And because some of the turnarounds started at the end of the first quarter; for example Salt Lake City and Anacortes went down one at the beginning of March the other in the middle of March and continued on through April.
There is a little bit of follow-through into April for those purchases.
But that's incorporated into your $800 million of EBITDA commentary.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And secondly on your Clean Product Upgrade the West Coast Xylene project I think initially that was a $400 million capital project.
Now it looks like it's $300 million.
Was that a change in scope or just a lower capital option than initially expected? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We broke out the project with the isomerization unit and broke it into two different projects and did some changes to the scope of the project.
But the overall plan is basically the same now just two different projects.
Got you.
Thanks for your comments.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Neil.
So Greg you talked about at the TLLP level the potential for organic opportunities in the Western U.S.
and then also third-party acquisitions.
Wondered if you can flesh that out.
What is in the scope of those growth projects you would look at? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a good question Neil.
The organic growth projects in almost all cases complement our existing assets and they either add to from a pipeline gathering standpoint or they drive better optimization of the asset.
So for example in the Uinta Basin a number of projects that we're looking at drive higher throughput through the systems allow us to get better utilization of the processing plants and that with a number of top-tier customers really.
So it's really complementing our existing asset base.
And same thing in North Dakota.
The opportunities that we're looking at in North Dakota fit into our overall gathering and pipeline and storage system up in the Bakken.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's very clear.
And then Greg I think you and I have talked about this in the past but the idea of doing a retail spin-off or monetizing some of the retail assets and the wholesale assets.
Curious on your updated thoughts there and whether you think that could potentially create value.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Neil like I had mentioned to you in the past our first focus is continuing to grow our marketing business to drive higher levels of integration across our system and all of the geographic areas.
And so we're actively looking to do that.
At the same time we are looking at our overall marketing business and we are doing that and plan to have it completed in the second half of this year on how we would want to position that marketing business going forward.
We haven't reached any conclusions on that at all yet.
Okay.
And the last question – this might be a tough to answer – but as think about Port of Vancouver are there any milestones we should be looking for in the next couple months? And then we've seen a bunch of crude by rail incidents here over the last couple of weeks and couple of months.
And any thoughts on the political ramifications there?.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I think on the Port of Vancouver there is no question that the process that we are under with this FSEC council that I mentioned is moving incredibly slow.
And it's slower than we anticipated as a company.
Between ourselves and Savage we do everything possible to keep it moving forward.
But at the end of the day we're somewhat at the mercy of how that council progresses and that.
So if you look they do publish things.
They have stated for example the adjudicative process has begun.
The administrative law judge who oversees that process has been very clear about the timing in that.
And you can see that actually.
It is public information.
It's a fairly aggressive schedule that has been set on that.
The Environmental Impact Study needs to get out into the public domain to allow that to progress.
That is a really key thing; that we're kind of in the window where that should come out here early this summer.
And that's probably the most important milestone is to get that EIS out into the public domain to allow the adjudicative process to go forward.
But it's painfully slow.
Fair enough.
Thank you Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Sam Margolin from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Sam.
You touched on this a second ago sort of about the way the QEP assets and the rest of your TLLP assets integrate with the refining system.
But I wanted to ask drought conditions out in the west have been very bad this year.
There's a view that gas demand in California could see some elevated levels.
What kind of flexibility does the gas transportation or marketing system have as far as placement of those volumes or is it really all sort of circulating within the Mid-Con footprint? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'm not completely sure I understood the question.
But as far as the West Coast on for gas supply to the market are you saying going into the California system and you're saying...
Well your system specifically.
Is TLLP able to market gathered gas in other regions besides sort of your home Mid-Continent base including ...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh you're talking – are you talking natural gas? Yeah.
Natural gas.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I apologize.
I thought you were about talking about gasoline.
We can supply gas through the system to put it on the mainlines to go up.
There're a number of pipelines that supply the West Coast from our area.
We're not involved in those mainline that run up to the West Coast but we easily can get gas into those systems if that's where the economics are to move the gas to the West Coast.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Yeah because there's a view that hydropower's going to be constrained and there could be incremental I guess gas...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Natural gas demand.
And then secondly it looks like at the Tesoro level net debt is more or less equal to the value of your TLLP limited partner holdings.
Now that the general partner value is starting to accrete sort of very rapidly as you grow volumes and add assets what's sort of the view on that LP stake and levels that you want to maintain? It seems like it is still kind of a source of cash to the parent company level.
But just sort of a philosophical view about your LP versus GP holding and how the LP stake now might function as a source of funds for future projects.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let Steven comment on that.
Director &amp; Vice President</span></strong> So as you look at the near term we're still committed to dropping down assets that makes sense into that business that allow us to generate cash for Tesoro to your point and help us continue to return cash to shareholders and invest in high-growth projects.
But also allows our Logistics business to leverage those assets to grow both organically make improvements to the assets.
And so as we look at that that's a key part of the growth plan and liquidity plans.
A lot of the value to us comes to the GP units but we do like to own the LP.
We think it's a good investment even at especially today's levels for Tesoro to own LP units and get distributions through that as well.
And so we'll look to balance – the focus is growing the business both organically and through drops.
And then behind that realizing the value on the GP unit ownership but also continuing to play a very active role and have a large ownership of the LP.
We haven't put a specific percentage on there.
I think we'll look at that.
As we look at the drop portfolio we look at the yields and we look at where we can create the most value with the cash whether we do something like we did last year which was make an investment in LP units to fund a very attractive acquisition or to make drops that are more balanced towards equity.
We'll evaluate those based upon where the best returns are to our shareholders.
All right.
Thank you.
Very helpful.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Sam.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Greg I had a follow-up...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Blake.
Inc.</span></strong> A follow-up on Vancouver.
I guess back at to your Analyst Day I think you had provided an initial startup date hopefully in the second-half of 2015.
Given your comments this morning of being painfully slow I have to assume that that's been delayed.
Do you have a best guess just roughly speaking? I mean do you think that could be potentially pushed back to first half of 2016 or second half 2016? Just any guess on timing? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Like I said Sam we're kind of at the mercy of FSEC and how they go through that process.
And definitely our expectations of how we thought it would work and what's actually happening has been different.
It would be a guess.
If they stay on the course of releasing the draft Environmental Impact Study and if the administrative law judge adheres to the schedule that's been published in that something could happen in the first part of 2016.
But we're absolutely committed to the project.
We believe that it will be successful and we just have to keep focused on being able to work through and do everything we can to convince everyone of how valuable this project is.
Inc.</span></strong> No I understand.
Thanks.
And just following up on that you probably have provided this in the past.
But could you remind me is there a just general rule of thumb we should be thinking about that as far as an A&amp;S to Bakken differential that has kind of a breakeven? I know there's a yield uplift and et cetera.
But is there just any kind of rule of thumb we should be thinking about as far as what kind of differential you need to make that project kind of fly? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think if you look at it without the upgrade because as you recall Blake one of the things we've been very clear about is the quality of Bakken crude oil versus the alternatives that are run on the West Coast provides that upgrade which we've said has been consistently $3 to $5 a barrel.
If you exclude that and then just look at it on a transportation basis I think it's around – is it around $6.50 Brian? Refining Tesoro Corp.</span></strong> Yeah.
That's right.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that if you look at a differential of about $6.50 between Bakken and A&amp;S like you said that at today's transportation rates allows for you to have a highly attractive project.
I would just make two additional points.
One is that that's where transportation rates have been in the past.
I think there's a possibility that those rates could change favorably which would change that breakeven point that you're talking about.
And so I think that's – I forgot my second point now – I forgot what I was going to say.
I think that's one thing to be aware of.
Oh and then the second thing is how you collect the crude and get it into the system is important.
And as you know that's a pretty commercially sensitive area..
But what's important is and the value for us of our High Plains Pipeline system is that we have the commercial relationships to be able to gather that crude at a different cost than just going out and buying it at Clearbrook that's the second part.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
The last one for you.
You mentioned being at about 80% of plan on your improvement initiatives.
I just wanted to confirm.
For the full-year outlook on EBITDA of $2.6 billion does that still contemplate a Tesoro Index – I believe it was a $10 to $12 a barrel range at your Analyst Day? Are you still using that or have you adjusted that for a more favorable West Coast environment? Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The $2.6 billion it reflects a higher index.
Probably index of around $16.
Director &amp; Vice President</span></strong> I'd say $16.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> About $16 to get to the $2.6 billion relative to what we said at the Analyst meeting Blake.
Inc.</span></strong> And presumably that's all West Coast driven I'm assuming right? Director &amp; Vice President</span></strong> Principally.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it primarily is.
The rest of them I think are pretty comparable.
Director &amp; Vice President</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from line of Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Roger.
Guess maybe we could talk a little bit about demand.
Question earlier hitting on the natural gas but this time maybe on diesel.
With the drought and the impacts of water rationing potentially impacting the farming industry I was wondering do you see any broader impacts on demand on the diesel side or the distillate side of the barrel here? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> At this stage we haven't seen that Roger.
I mean it doesn't mean it may not materialize as we go through the year.
But we have no experience that that's happened so not yet.
Okay.
Great.
And then on Port of Vancouver years ago when this process started and unfortunately it is now with a plural there were always alternatives if Port of Vancouver didn't go through or an agreement couldn't be reached.
Are there still alternatives out there if something doesn't work? And I mean in the same area.
I mean we could obviously always try to rail to California but that seems to be an even more permit-challenged world.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I think there are some alternatives.
They are nowhere near the magnitude naturally of what Port of Vancouver can do both from a volumetric standpoint and probably more importantly from a cost standpoint.
It just drives incredible efficiencies.
So the other opportunities that we're also looking at and we've always looked at are much smaller in scale.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Edward Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning Greg.
Just a quick follow-up.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ed.
Thank you.
The $16 per barrel Tesoro Index I mean I'm just looking at the main numbers on the website.
You got California at $25 Pacific Northwest $20 and Midcontinent $24.66.
Is that $16 the weighted average of three or is that just California – sorry – just to clarify? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The $16 is for the system for the entire year.
Right.
Okay.
Director &amp; Vice President</span></strong> On average second quarter through the fourth quarter.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
And I know you've done this.
Have you got a dollar per barrel sensitivity for every dollar for EBITDA? I could probably do it quickly but...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean we typically run about 300 million barrels a year.
So if it's $1 dollar that kind of gives you an – over the course a year it tells you every dollar's worth about 300 million.
And if it's $5 it's a different number.
Okay.
Secondly moving over to QEPFS.
You say you're encouraged and you're ahead of the target on synergies.
Have you been able to come up with sort of an incremental estimate of the CapEx that you might be able to deploy into those two basins now that you've operated the assets for a while? I'm thinking about two aspects of it.
One is improving the internal logistics of the Bakken which obviously is still an opportunity even if the Bakken volumes overall are flattish.
And then the commercial response for the Uinta Basin which was obviously one of the constraints under the old ownership but which you thought might change if you were opening.
So just some color on those two opportunities.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we are working some opportunities to do some of the things that you've talked about.
It's premature to talk about those because they're under discussion.
But everything that we see so far in the Uinta and in the Bakken it's really allows you to take the existing assets and build those out.
I think it goes back to Neil's question a little bit earlier that if you take the kind of the backbone of the systems that we have there and working with the producers to go out and bring in either additional volumes or optimize that we do see that.
So from a capital standpoint Ed it's just a little bit too soon to talk about that.
But I suspect we'll be in a lot better place in the next few months to talk about specific projects.
Yeah.
I mean CapEx obviously helps us to model EBITDA down on the road so that's why I was asking.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just a little bit too early.
Okay.
And then just a final question.
The drop in the second half of this year any color on what that is at this point? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I mean we still target the drop that we've said all along around a $50 million EBITDA type drop is still in our plans.
So we have a number of different assets that we're considering.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Ed.
Thank you for that question.
That's the end of the question-and-answers.
So thank you for participation in today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day and a good weekend.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jen and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Sam Ramraj Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss the second quarter 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC yesterday.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing the results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our second quarter financial performance then hand the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported record quarterly earnings for Tesoro.
Second quarter 2015 net earnings from continuing operations was $586 million or $4.62 per diluted share compared to $224 million or $1.70 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2014.
EBITDA for the second quarter was approximately $1.2 billion.
This was a record for the company and represents an increase of 118% from $548 million last year.
Before discussing operating results I'd like to note a change in reporting within our Refining and Retail segments.
We have combined wholesale and retail operations into one segment now referred to as Marketing which reflects our current business model and shows the combined value of the sales channels we use to reach our customers.
In our supplemental financial and operational information that's provided on our website you can find historical results reflecting the new reporting structure.
Refining segment's EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $875 million an increase of 90% from $461 million a year ago.
This is primarily attributable to a significantly improved margin environment lower operating expenses and contributions from our business improvements.
Our total Refinery throughput for the quarter was 783 000 barrels a day or 92% utilization.
In April and May utilization was impacted by maintenance activities at our Salt Lake City and Anacortes refineries and the restart of our Martinez refinery following the labor disruptions.
We are pleased with how our assets operated towards the end of the quarter.
In June our overall utilization exceeded 100%.
The Tesoro Index was $21.61 per barrel in the second quarter of 2015 with a realized gross refining margin of $19.13 a barrel or 89% of the Tesoro Index.
This compares to a realized gross refining margin of $13.11 per barrel or 101% of the Tesoro Index last year.
This quarter's capture rate was impacted by various factors including our refinery downtime including the turnarounds I mentioned less advantaged crude oil differentials particularly in the mid-continent and running more intermediate feedstock in our California and Pacific Northwest refineries due to our turnarounds.
Manufacturing costs in the second quarter of 2015 decreased $0.30 per barrel over last year to $5.58.
This decrease was primarily due to lower energy prices.
The Logistics segment EBITDA was $154 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $65 million for the same period last year; this represents an increase of approximately 137%.
This improvement was driven by the Rockies natural gas business which delivered $66 million of EBITDA and increased volumes in our crude oil gathering business.
The declared general partner distributions are approximately $18 million for the second quarter and $32 million through the first half of 2015.
The total general partner and limited partner distributions received by Tesoro were about $81 million during the second quarter and $114 million for the first six months of the year.
The Marketing segment's EBITDA was $223 million up 128% from $98 million in the second quarter of last year.
This is primarily a result of strong consumer demand as Retail fuel volumes in the second quarter increased 3% over last year and are up 3.3% since the beginning of the year.
With the bulk of our planned turnarounds behind us we're looking forward to running our refineries at high utilization rates in the second half of the year and capturing attractive market conditions driven by strong consumer demand.
We expect overall utilization rates in the third quarter to be between 95% and 100% and capture rates to improve compared to the second quarter.
We had strong cash generation in the second quarter and we expect this to continue in the third quarter.
We continue to deploy cash to create value for our shareholders and during the second quarter we returned more than $300 million to shareholders including the purchase of nearly 2.8 million shares for $250 million and payment of about $53 million in dividends.
Currently we have $731 million remaining on our authorized $1 billion share repurchase program and we'll continue to buy back shares opportunistically.
We announced a dividend increase of approximately 18% to $0.50 per share from our current dividend.
We ended the second quarter with a cash balance of approximately $1 billion an increase of more than $0.5 billion from the first quarter.
Our sources and uses of cash can be found on the set of slides we published yesterday which also outline our second quarter results and third quarter outlook.
In the set of slides we provide details of our planned throughput manufacturing cost per barrel and other elements related to our third quarter outlook.
We're very pleased with our results in the second quarter and look forward to continuing to drive earnings growth in the third quarter and the rest of the year by focusing on running our refineries safely and reliably capturing value across our integrated business model executing on our business improvement programs and being financially disciplined.
This allows us to continue to grow the business and return cash to shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Steven.
We are pleased with our performance in the second quarter.
We achieved record levels of EBITDA net income and EPS and returned in excess of $300 million to shareholders.
Also we delivered over $325 million in business improvements in the first half of the year.
Turning to operations.
Our Refining business was supported by favorable economic factors declining energy prices improved product cracks and higher demand despite weaker crude oil differentials.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the second quarter averaged over $21 per barrel.
Natural gas prices declined approximately 40% in the second quarter and this translated to lower energy costs for our refining operations.
U.S.
gasoline demand continues to benefit from the peak driving season.
Additionally we see positive indicators in the marketplace from lower gasoline prices higher vehicle miles traveled and increased auto sales.
U.S.
vehicle miles traveled in May increased to 275 billion miles which is a record.
This was aided by an improving labor market and lower gasoline prices.
The California economy is strong and the market continues to improve.
For instance the unemployment rate in California declined to 6.3% in June.
Vehicle miles traveled through June increased this year to approximately 94 billion miles up 3.2% from the same period last year and PADD 5 gasoline demand increased by approximately 3% year-to-date and diesel demand improved by approximately 3% over last year.
Now addressing our West Coast operations our California refineries ran well in the second quarter and throughput was 523 000 barrels per day.
The Martinez refinery resumed operations in April after maintenance activities and our Los Angeles refinery ran in excess of 100% utilization for the quarter.
The third quarter has continued to experience a very strong margin environment driven by growing gasoline demand.
We are optimizing our West Coast operations to maximize gasoline production during this market and continue to maintain a very competitive position.
Shifting to our mid-continent region our Mandan refinery performed well in the second quarter and we completed the turnaround at our Salt Lake City refinery.
In addition to the turnaround we had unplanned maintenance activities that affected normal operations in Salt Lake during June.
This impacted our overall throughput increasing operating expenses per barrel and lowered gasoline production and capture rates in our mid-continent region.
This is now behind us and the Salt Lake City refinery is running at 100% capacity.
Now moving to our Logistics business.
TLLP announced another strong quarter of earnings growth supported by increased volumes in its crude oil and natural gas gathering and processing operations.
We completed the integration of the Rockies natural gas business in May and then closed the merger of QEPM in July.
Through the first half of the year the Rockies natural gas business contributed $141 million of adjusted EBITDA.
We anticipate the Rockies natural gas business to contribute $275 million EBITDA in 2015 which is at the upper end of the range we announced when we acquired the business late last year.
We remain focused on strategic third-party opportunities and drop-downs to grow TLLP's portfolio of logistics assets around our Western U.S.
footprint.
Tesoro expects to offer TLLP the opportunity to acquire crude oil and refined product storage and pipeline assets in Los Angeles in the form of a dropdown in the fourth quarter.
We expect these assets to deliver annual EBITDA to TLLP in the range of $50 million to $75 million.
TLLP now expects to deliver $640 million to $680 million of EBITDA for full year 2015.
We are well on our way to delivering our $1 billion EBITDA target by 2017.
We are very pleased with the growth prospects of our Logistics business through the focus on growing and optimizing its stable fee-based business expanding its backlog of high return organic growth projects and pursuing strategic third-party acquisitions and drop-down opportunities.
Now to discuss our Marketing business this segment contributed significantly to our performance for the first half of the year and we improved our Marketing integration to 93% from 85% a year ago.
We have undertaken initiatives to realign our Marketing business.
For instance we recently transitioned our company-owned operations to multi-site operator model.
We also revised our segment presentation during the quarter.
Further we are evaluating our long-term growth strategy for our Marketing business and look forward to providing an update later this year.
Now to provide you an update on our strategic projects.
Through the first half of 2015 we delivered $325 million of business improvements.
We remain confident in delivering on our commitment of approximately $670 million of year-over-year earnings growth from Tesoro-specific projects.
We use tools like Lean Six Sigma to improve operational effectiveness which contributed to the overall business improvements.
Even though the first half of the year was challenging due to the labor disruption and maintenance activities our teams have stepped it up and delivered on these commitments.
For the first half of the year we delivered approximately $70 million in West Coast improvements against our goal of $95 million to $125 million for the full year.
Contributing to this improvement are benefits from our Los Angeles synergies including crude optimization optimization from sourcing new types of crude crude blending capabilities at the Carson crude terminal that resulted in higher throughput volumes new cargo sharing between the Martinez refinery and Los Angeles and improved pipeline connectivity between the Los Angeles refinery sites.
We have continued our efforts to increase the use of advantaged feedstocks through our system and delivered approximately $100 million in capturing margin improvements against our target of $130 million to $170 million for the full year.
This year we moved 1.6 million barrels of Bakken crude oil to Alaska in the second quarter.
Bakken crude oil represented over 65% of the oil consumed by our mid-continent system.
We also delivered $155 million of logistics growth through the first half of the year putting us on track to deliver the $325 million to $375 million of logistics improvements for the full year.
As for an update on individual projects the Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC has indicated that the draft environmental impact statement for Vancouver Energy has been pushed back four months to the end of November.
We remain committed to the proposed 360 000 barrel per day crude oil to rail marine terminal.
We believe a thorough evaluation will clearly demonstrate that we can design construct and operate a safe environmentally responsible facility that offers several benefits to the state and the region including: reducing America's dependence on foreign oil this project is designed to replace foreign imports with North American grades; generate $2 billion in economic value to the local and regional economy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We believe that crude by rail will continue to play a vital role in delivering advantaged inland domestic crude to the West Coast.
Tesoro has made significant investments in infrastructure and enhanced rail cars to support this method of delivery in a safe and responsible way.
We continued to upgrade our crude oil rail fleet by adding 210 enhanced tank cars that exceed the new safety transport standards issued by the U.S.
Department of Transportation on May 1 of this year.
We have also completed the second phase of the Salt Lake City expansion project in the second quarter.
This expansion allows us to run additional waxy crude oil from the Uinta Basin increase our total capacity by about 4 000 barrels per day and run up to 26 000 barrels per day of waxy crude oil.
The Salt Lake City refinery is currently processing about 22 000 barrels per day of waxy crude oil.
As for our cash flow priorities we will continue to one invest in growth opportunities to further value creation.
Two focus on external growth opportunities.
Three maintain a competitive dividend and payout ratio.
Four continue to strengthen the balance sheet and move towards investment grade.
And five return excess cash to shareholders as Steven mentioned earlier.
Let me conclude by saying that this quarter's record performance underscores our ability to efficiently optimize our assets across the value chain leverage favorable market conditions and deliver on our commitments.
With a competitive position on the West Coast and a strong focus on the growth of our Logistics and Marketing businesses we have built a solid foundation for continued value creation.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? The first question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jeff.
The second quarter earnings were all the more impressive given some of the downtime at Salt Lake and the ramp times at Anacortes and Martinez.
Do you have an estimate on the EBITDA or earnings opportunity loss due to these not running at full capacity for the duration of the quarter? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we don't have that available Jeff.
But for Salt Lake City I think you could go back and compare year-on-year 2014 to 2015 and look at the difference in the margin environment and that would give you a very good approximation because you can see the lower throughput as we typically run at 100% utilization.
Good.
If you look at the Tesoro Refining Index and a Retail Index they're higher for July than I think any of the months that occurred during the second quarter.
You mentioned better margin capture with the benefit of higher refining utilization declining oil prices and the impact on secondary products lower RINs prices.
It would appear that we're off to a materially better third quarter number than what Street estimates appear.
Any comments on that? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think as we look forward to the third quarter I'd probably point out two or three things.
First as Steven mentioned in his guidance we plan to run at between 95% and 100% utilization.
So if you just take the midpoint of his range of 97.5% and you look at what we ran in the second quarter because of what you mentioned regarding Salt Lake City and Anacortes coming out of turnarounds and that we were at 92%.
So that equates to about 50 000 barrels a day of additional production in Q3 versus Q2.
That's one thing.
Secondly because of coming out of that turnaround and running feedstocks and things like that that's now cleared out of our system.
And so where we had a capture rate of 89% in Q2 we expect it to be back more in the normal range for Q3.
And then finally we see the continuing market environment good demand in our marketing system.
Our demand is continuing to stay strong going into the third quarter.
We just don't see anything out there that's going to change that in the short term.
And therefore with continued strong performance in Marketing and Logistics I think when you put it all together we see a very favorable outlook for Q3 versus Q2.
Thanks for your comments Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Heffern RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Morning everyone.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Brad.
Greg obviously I'm sure you're aware of the Reuters report last week suggesting that Tesoro was looking at acquiring Holly [HollyFrontier].
Are there any comments you can make around that? And since the answer to that may be no can you just talk about your appetite for refining acquisitions and M&amp;A in general in the current environment? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah as you're very much aware Brad it's not appropriate to comment on rumors or speculation so we'll avoid that completely.
But what I will reaffirm is our strategic focus which has been the same for five years since I've been at Tesoro.
We have five strategic priorities and one of those priorities is value-driven growth and we fully intend to look for opportunities where we can acquire assets that fit in our business model and create value from those assets.
And we've been doing that for the last couple years.
We will continue to look for those opportunities.
We believe we're good at capturing those opportunities and integrating them.
As we stated we've fully integrated QEPM in less than six months into our business.
We'll capture all of the synergies from that business and it's operating extremely well.
And I think the asset acquisition in Southern California speaks for itself.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then I was curious if you could provide more color on the movement of the wholesale business into the new Marketing segment.
Is the desire there to collect that EBITDA together maybe supporting the plan that you're going to roll out for the Retail business in the fall? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me ask Steven to address your question Brad.
Yeah as we moved to the MSO model on our Retail business we created this Marketing segment so you can see all of our customer-facing business in one place.
So that's the reporting change.
But as Greg mentioned earlier the real focus is on creating value through our strategy being integrated.
You look at the performance of that business over the last couple years it's improved dramatically.
In fact if you look at the last 12 months it's generated over $800 million of EBITDA on its own.
And as we look forward we're going to lay out our strategy at the end of the year as Greg's mentioned to create further value in the Marketing segment.
Okay.
Great.
And then if I could just sneak in one more.
I'm curious on those business improvement goals obviously good progress versus the targets there.
Is there a benefit in those numbers from the record cracks on the West Coast? Or are they based on more of a normalized crack environment? Thanks.
There is no benefit at all from the margin environment.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys and strong results.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Evan.
Just a question on the buyback I mean clearly a big quarter here and I think you alluded to what's shaping up to be another one behind it.
But how should we think about a target ratio payout here? I know you've been very active I think it was 50% of your net income in the quarter.
Is that how you think about it? Or is it more flexible than that? Yeah.
I don't think we're as rigid as to saying that there's a payout target we want to have.
We want to continue to improve our total shareholder return.
But when we think about our overall capital allocation priorities we're really committed and focused on driving more free cash flow growth.
So having high returns on our cash investments so being very disciplined there.
Then second behind that we say we want to have about $600 million to $800 million of cash on our balance sheet.
And if you look at where we are at the end of the second quarter and you're comments on the third quarter about the business improving we've actually got flexibility there because we've got more cash at that point than the $600 million $800 million.
Beyond those core elements our first priority is really to continue to fund these high growth investments the business improvement projects high growth capital and also M&amp;A.
Beyond that we continue to grow our dividend.
We announced an 18% increase which follows a 42% increase in the first quarter.
And then we look to share repurchases and this year we bought back $270 million and we're going to continue to buy back shares from the excess cash.
And then finally I'd say we do want to continue to move towards investment grade.
So putting some cash towards modest deleveraging over time makes sense as well.
So that's kind of how we view it across the spectrum.
Great.
And if I could a second.
Greg maybe I know you addressed in your opening comments some of the trend and they extended into the third quarter but maybe just if I could get your longer-term view of how industry fundamentals are shaping up? Clearly there's even more recently there's been a broader acceptance a realization of a lower for longer or some level of lower for longer on the oil side as well as a resiliency of U.S.
production and the producer.
And I guess in that in a macro perspective we're seeing refining start-ups internationally get kicked further to the right and particularly in China.
How do you feel about being in the industry for a long period of time how do feel about the refining fundamentals as we extend through 2016 timeframe a little bit maybe longer-term view? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it's a good question Evan.
The shorter-term view going out for the next 12 months to 24 months we believe the fundamentals are continuing to be very supportive particularly if as you mentioned with the – if crude oil stays in the lower price range that we've experienced we would see supportive demand especially in the United States.
May not see the same level of growth but that's probably not necessarily a bad thing if we can maintain the demand where it's been.
And with some minor growth we would see that to lend itself to be very supportive for the industry.
And probably more importantly for our business if you take PADD 5 and you just look at we've had continued growth out of the recession of the California economy in particular has improved growth in demand in that.
So the market is in a very favorable position and with our focus on being able to go out and drive the improvements and capture the synergies on the West Coast we believe that we're very well positioned to operate extremely well and deliver the products in that favorable market environment.
And does the distillate gasoline relationship concern you and then the relatively diverging fundamentals and how they relate going forward? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not from our standpoint because the things that we've been doing have allowed us to keep that flexibility to produce what the market needs whether it be gasoline or distillate which will be driven as you know by the the market will tell you what to produce.
So from our flexibility that we're creating in our system we're not impacted by it at all because we haven't spent a lot of money to create that flexibility.
I appreciate the comments guys.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Evan.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Phil.
A couple of follow-up questions.
First just on the last topic I guess I'm wondering if we think about the West Coast specifically there's the demand factors you mentioned there there are supply factors as well.
If for example Torrance were to restart tomorrow would your view of the Tesoro Index – would it be higher than it was at the December Analyst Day at this stage? For the next year or two? I think you had a $10 to $12 index and it feels like there's a lot of demand behind this as well.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let me just clarify one thing Phil.
The index of $10 to $12 first was for our entire system not just California so just to be clear about that.
Yeah.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But I think today looking forward versus last year where we were actually with a fair amount of uncertainty because of the environment we were in with falling prices and that and there's probably a little bit to follow-up on Evan's question and points that he tried to make.
It appears that the fundamentals are even more supportive.
So I think when you see us come out with our estimate for next year it will probably be higher from an index standpoint as we look forward from the markets.
So yeah we see that in a very positive way.
Got it.
Okay.
And just on the capture rate discussion.
Do you happen to have what the June capture rates were? Or some way of calibrating a little bit more finely how you would think about capture versus the 89% given more of a full run rate.
And if I drill into that a little bit more obviously the mid-con you highlighted some of the challenges there in the second quarter.
But are there any factors going on in the mid-con that are more structural? I'm thinking up in the Mandan area with maybe slower diesel demand that would lead to slightly lower capture there maybe versus 2014? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So it'd be probably June.
I don't have that number off the top of my head but I would say that June is probably a good indication for Q3 from a capture standpoint.
And if you go back and look historically at what our capture's been that will get you in the ballpark of what it is.
However you do have to recognize that capture will be down slightly because of the change in taking some of the Marketing business and moving it into Refining.
And then the change we talked about earlier in the year on how we account for the RIN value.
Now the RINs have come down a lot since we talked about that earlier in the year.
But those two changes could probably take our capture down slightly in the mid-single digit percentage value.
So I guess as kind of an approximate value target around 5% as a lower level.
So I think that would give you a good idea of what capture would look like going forward.
Okay.
Then just anything on the mid-con specific? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably the biggest thing in the mid-con is just the weaker Bakken differential.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Great thanks and congrats.
It is clear Q3 is going to be somewhat even stronger.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ed.
Just a hypothetical if you owned any SP at one of your refineries and you blew it up and had to get a secondary one in and you needed to get a waiver what odds – you know the regulatory regime better than us – what odds would you put on getting that waiver? I mean we're all trying to work it out.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's an absolutely unfair question Ed.
Okay.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean I'd just be you know honestly I'd just be speculating on that.
I don't think I can give you any better indication than anyone else on that.
Right.
Okay.
Maybe then I'll move into a different area.
I mean obviously you've been quite aggressive on the MLP consolidation front.
I mean I'm sure you've observed that the MLP valuations are further coming in.
Is the organization because you're still I guess digesting QEPM or doing very well with that.
Is the organization stretched to this point to do – to participate further in consolidation or is that still one of the levers that you think you could pull? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Actually we feel very good about QEPM.
We did an excellent job of integrating it into our business the people that joined Tesoro from QEPM are an excellent addition to our organization their commitment and their strong technical and operating background fit exactly what we needed for our logistics business.
So we feel very very good about that.
And in less than six months it's fully integrated into our business and running along and it's been fantastic from that standpoint.
So we're well-positioned for other opportunities.
We mentioned briefly that we see significant organic growth opportunities even though it is a difficult environment with pricing prices for both gas and oil.
We continue to see good organic growth projects and working with customers across the areas where we do the business is still bearing a lot of fruit for us.
So we're very optimistic from that standpoint.
We continue to look for opportunities to acquire assets that fit in that are good quality assets that fit our business model and we'll just see what happens as that goes forward.
Yeah.
And then maybe if I could come back to the West Coast just finally.
Torrance I mean obviously at the margin – there's some gasoline that's not coming in it was a big unit so that does tip it.
But if Torrance was fully running do you still think that we'd be seeing stress in California because of the demand fundamentals that we're witnessing? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think you have to as you know you have to go back in and look at the amount of gasoline that's been imported into PADD 5 during the time that they've had operating problems at that refinery and see what the net effect is that would give you an idea of what would happen because there's been a fair amount of imports into the area.
So it's probably had some impact in the marketplace but I think the market is being fully supplied with all of the product that it needs.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Congrats on a great quarter Greg.
I wanted to pick your brain a little bit on your teaser on the Retail business.
And obviously I knew you were going to give us details later in the year but I guess just as a big picture standpoint it's being a strategic outlet for gasoline for you guys for quite a while.
Obviously it's grown in stature.
You've stepped that up over time.
Is it something you see as strategic that you need to retain ownership of? Or is it the kind of thing you believe could stand on its own two feet like say as a standalone Retail business or IPO spun out to investors for example? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think the first point that's more important than your question I think is that we believe it's critical that we maintain that high integration in our Refining and Marketing business.
It's a fundamental part of our business model.
So first that's extremely important.
The second part of your question is something that we need to look at and say how do you get the optimal contribution from that business with the amount of money that you deploy in that business as well as how you can capture returns on that? And that is something we fully intend to answer here and we'll share with everyone before the end of the year.
Just a quick follow-up.
Is it reasonable to assume that you could spin it out while still retaining the distribution rights if you like to the what I guess is predominantly a jobber market? Is that a fair assumption? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Doug I think just give us time to complete our work on it and we'll look at – as you know you know how we do things.
We're going to look at every possible idea and we're going to be focused on how do we create the maximum value for the owners of the company? And then we'll – but we'll take what you just said and look at that with every other option that we can think of.
Got it.
Thank you.
My follow-up is really more about the structure of the gasoline market in California.
I guess given the strength that we've seen in margins obviously Torrance has been offline and so on why do you think we haven't seen a bigger step-up in imports into the region to calm things down if you like? Are there some structural barriers whether it be port facilities or things of that nature which I recall are predominantly owned by the local refineries or is there some other issue going on aside from the obvious strength in demand? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> First I think you need to look at the entire PADD because as you know products gasoline diesel jet fuel moves freely along the whole West Coast to the different markets and that.
So that's one thing.
Secondly if you look at gasoline production it has been very strong in PADD 5 during this period of time.
It's been extremely strong because the market needs the gasoline.
And to the best of my knowledge everyone has met the demand for gasoline on the West Coast.
We have not had any issues of supplying any of our customers at all and even earlier in the year when we had our operating challenges at the Martinez refinery we still met all of our customer demand.
So I'm not aware of any shortages of not meeting the customer demand in that.
And I think the question on imports is a little bit to do with the market structure and pricing and when you're in a backwardated market like that it may present some challenges to get the gasoline into the market.
But the market's been absorbing imports without any problem.
All right.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Neil.
So Greg I wanted to start off on the MLP here and you'll be generating a lot of general partner cash flow that's going to start ticking up here and just your thoughts on whether it makes sense to monetize some of that GP.
And then also as a follow-up just your thoughts on the pacing of dropdowns into TLLP as you think about your backlog.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'm going to ask Steven to comment a little bit on the GP monetization then I'll respond to your second question Neil.
Yeah very similar to Greg's comments about how we create value on the Marketing side we view the TLLP business the same way.
We're really focused on growing the business organically and through dropdowns.
To your point where we are in terms of the growth we see substantial cash flow growth already coming from the business and we expect it to continue.
Beyond that whether there's opportunities to create value through other means we hope that the most value comes to our shareholders by just operating the business extremely well and growing it.
But over time if we feel that doesn't yield value we'll look at all the options that are out there on the financial side.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the second one Neil regarding the dropdowns as you are very much aware that we announced in the second half of the year here we intend to do a dropdown and we talked about the scale of that dropdown and how the frequency of those dropdowns is for us predicated a little bit upon just the time that it takes to do all the work to get the dropdowns ready to happen in conjunction with everything else we have going on in the Logistics business with our execution of our organic growth projects and we're doing extensive business development with our customers to meet their needs out in the marketplace.
So that is one of the things that controls our dropdown schedule which is kind of gets us on one dropdown a year.
We've said that.
However this time we've done additional work to accelerate dropdowns that could happen in 2016 because we've just been it just takes a lot of work to get those ready.
As so there is a chance we could do a little bit more dropdowns in 2016 than we have in the past.
All right.
Great.
And then my follow-up on the M&amp;A point just philosophically Greg you talk about taking a value approach when you think about M&amp;A.
Are there regions of greater interest whether it's the mid-con versus the Gulf Coast versus elsewhere? Obviously there are market power constraints in PADD 5.
And then just if you could talk and flesh through some of those parameters that you define as a value creative transaction I think that would be helpful for framing the topic for investors.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we have been very clear for the last five years that our area of focus is from the middle part of the country to the West Coast and pretty much staying out of the Gulf Coast.
And we believe that the best way that we create value is in our integrated business model between Refining Marketing and Logistics.
And as you're very much aware that doesn't necessarily apply on the Gulf Coast like it does in the geographic area that I defined.
So we've stayed true to that geographic area for the last five years and right now I don't see us changing from that.
That's our focus.
We think we understand the business and the opportunities in that area and we'll continue to focus on that area.
What we believe from a value way to create values if we were to find opportunities they would be where we can capture opportunities from deploying the way we operate on a business that we would an asset that we would acquire.
For example what we did at Carson we would intend to do the same thing.
We as the synergies that we've talked about and shared fairly transparently the types of synergies we would look for those opportunities that create value that are kind of embedded in the business which depend a lot upon how we operate which can include the commercial part of the business from a crude supply and product to the taking product out to the customers.
And then just as much as how we operate.
So we'd have to find that type of embedded value in there and we believe that there's significant opportunities to be able to do that.
And then the other thing would be just being able to build out our business model.
That we believe there is a part of our value creation model that we would look to achieve.
Helpful color as always.
Thanks guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg on the M&amp;A if I could ask an additional question.
Is there one or two financial metrics that are the most important when you consider M&amp;A transactions? And if there are what are those and what is the minimum in those metrics that you would be looking for? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think Paul we I think if you look over time most refining transactions that have occurred come into a pretty close range on a DCF basis.
So when we acquired Carson you can go back and see the business on a discounted cash flow basis where that value is in there.
They stay in a relative a pretty tight range from the work that we've done on those.
So looking at opportunities we'd be looking at them from a discounted cash flow basis.
And then the second thing would be which I hopefully tried to answer Neil's question is there embedded value in the business by the way that you operate or in some cases extend what we would try to do with our business model.
And so we do a pure grind out the numbers and see what type of value creation we can get through synergies and that based upon how – what we pay for the business.
Inc.</span></strong> And in your discounted cash flow analysis what is the discount rate you guys are using? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think over time if you look over the last little bit from the work we've done most transactions traded around 15%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Greg several of your major projects including the mixed xylene project Carson and Wilmington that you're going to shut down the FCC and expand the hydrocracker as well as build a tunnel to connect the two refinery physically.
Do you already have all the required permits on the construction on those projects? Or are you still waiting for some? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So on every project that we would consider kind of a major strategic effort by the company including Vancouver Energy the mixed xylene project that you mentioned Paul the Los Angeles integration project every single project is in a different stage of the permitting process.
So we are moving all of those projects through the permitting process as we speak.
That is very critical from the implementation because you've seen some of the troubles that we've had with getting through the permitting process at Vancouver Energy.
We aren't seeing those same issues at the other projects but they are in the permitting process.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you share that when you think or that based on your – to get those two projects that the L.A.
Carson integration and also that the mixed xylene to be on stream in 2017 when you would need the permit to be acquired? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You need the permits early end of this year early next year to stay on our schedule.
And right now we're moving along that time line.
We don't see any issues at this stage but that's the critical milestone in the project.
Inc.</span></strong> And Greg since the (47:27) publicly (47:28) on the QEPM is there any plan to merge it into TLLP so that you only have one logistic MLP? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We completed that merger Paul about the third week of July so QEPM is fully merged into TLLP.
It actually went very very smoothly and that's all behind us.
It's done.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
A final one.
Do you have a preliminary CapEx for 2016? And also that how's your spring 2016 turnaround schedule may look like? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think right now I don't have off the top of my head what we said at our analyst meeting in December of 2014 with regards to 2016 but that's probably a good ballpark number right now.
I just don't remember what that is.
We're working our turnarounds.
Right now we're in our planning process for 2016 going forward.
So it's just too early to get an idea of what our turnaround schedule is.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg can you at least tell us whether you think it's going to be about normal or if it's going to be heavier or lighter than normal? Or even that is too early to tell? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think a good indication would be kind of average Paul.
I don't think from my recollection we have done some work to do some work on the turnarounds and that and I think that when we get into 2016 you'll see it comparable to 2015 would be my guess.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yep.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Sam.
I just wanted to revisit this gasoline import topic quickly.
If you could educate us just a little bit on some of the dynamic at work here if – when these barrels land at port if they're ready for market immediately or if they potentially require further processing within the California system so that there's in fact another constraint beyond just ship and port capacity as international refiners try to close that ARP? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You can import California gasoline and take it directly to the market it does not require further processing.
However people can import feedstocks to blend in to create additional gasoline and that – both of those may happen but your first question is you can take it directly to the market.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And then on just also revisiting the MLP valuation theme because I think this week it's really come to the forefront for a lot of people.
On consolidation it seems like one of the constraints in the past has just been the spread between third-party M&amp;A transactions and the dropdown valuation so that the limited partners really had to fund a lot of the upfront consolidation costs.
But now as that gap closes how do you think about the Tesoro parent company balance sheet and the role it might play in potential pure midstream acquisition opportunities outside a comparable transaction to say Southern California two years ago but just TSO parent in its current position with respect to third-party midstream assets and in consideration of how it affects the GP too if that has a TSO parent? Yeah I think your first question for our call was really around the fundamental valuations.
When you think about them from a third-party versus dropdown at the end of the day they're really all third-party transactions.
If you take for example our QEPM acquisition in the first year based upon the earnings run rate we've been able to achieve in the business it's already down to about a 10 to 10.5 multiple and historically that had been the level at which we had dropdown assets too and so from our point of view they're both very very attractive to LP unit holders as well as GP.
So that's kind of the first perspective.
To your second question how we think about dropping down assets Greg described the pace at which we've talked about it.
It really is around – we'll drop down assets to continue to support the growth but it's really about creating additional value being able to run those assets.
There's times where we could bring third parties into those assets as well.
And so when we look at the type of assets we bring down you can expect them to be very consistent with the type of assets we've dropped before and each year you have to look at the dynamics around valuation and so you know we still think that you can drop down these type of midstream assets at valuations that make sense today and they're still accretive and valuable to LP unit holders and they still make sense for refining so we haven't seen the shift off of that.
Okay.
And just out there in the M&amp;A market are we seeing assets close the gap to the dropdown valuation so that you can warehouse them in the parent company for a certain amount of time? As you drop them down gradually should you see assets that look attractive to you outside the current Tesoro footprint if that makes sense? Yeah I think ultimately you want to use Refining capital to grow Refining and to the extent you can find other sources of capital to grow the Non-Refining and Marketing businesses you'd look at that.
But yeah I think valuations – to your point over the last few years they haven't really been supportive of that because there's been – there's really a strong bid-ask spread on those deals but I do think that that's an option we'll always look at is being able to warehouse it and drop it down you know particularly when it's integrated with Refining assets like our Southern California acquisition.
That made a lot of sense created a lot of value.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Chi Chow Tudor Pickering.
Please proceed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Can you hear me okay Greg? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah a little bit of a buzz on your phone but yeah you're good.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay yeah I think I'm having problems here.
I guess on the midstream drop you mentioned to TLLP you've mentioned the assets are in Los Angeles.
I was under the impression that TLLP already held all the L.A.
assets.
Are these still related to Carson or do have something else in that region? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No it's part of the – both of Wilmington.
We have more assets both around Wilmington and Carson that are distribution assets that fit into the system.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Is there more beyond what you've identified in the release today? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Yes there is.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And do you have any sort of EBITDA estimate on what's still yet to come? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Chi not on those yet but there are others there so I don't know what it is exactly.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
At Salt Lake City regarding your expansion project there can you continue to process the 22-a-day of waxy crudes longer term? Or are you going to have to cut back on those volumes from your supplier once your competitor in that region starts up their expansion next year? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey I think I'm not sure the competitor has much to do with the supply of waxy crude as it does what's going out in the Uinta Basin.
And there's no question that the drilling activity has dried up out in the Uinta Basin and that's going to have an impact on future availability of waxy crude oil.
So there was a fair amount of waxy crude oil being produced and used in a number of the Salt Lake City refineries and taken out of the region.
And so we're working through that right now to get an indication of the availability of waxy crude oil going out looking further to see what's going to be available.
But we have flexibility to use other types of crudes and all that.
It's just how the waxy crude oil prices into the system.
It's just a little bit too early to see how that's going to shake out for 2016 and beyond.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Do the economics on the project change much if you use non-waxy crudes through the expansion? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our project Chi was built to run waxy crude oil.
That was the rationale for spending the amount of money that we did was to be able to process waxy crude oil.
As you can recall I think at about the time we were working on this if my memory serves me right we were around 10 000 barrels to 11 000 barrels a day and we basically said we were going to double that up to the 22 000 barrels.
It looks like we're at about 24 000 barrels to 26 000 barrels a day.
And so there is no question that if two things happen – one if less waxy crude is available and two if the differentials come in in the short term that economics that originally were behind that project are not as attractive as they were when we spent the money.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then final question on Vancouver.
Do you read into anything on the State's sentiment on the project by pushing their process back even further? Or is this just typical regulatory inefficiencies? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
From our view is it's the way that the many different groups within the States that are involved in the EFSEC process are doing the work and it just doesn't work as you would both hope for it and like it to work.
If it was in a business you would probably get a different outcome versus going through the regulatory process.
But we do not read anything into it regarding their support or lack of support for it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks Greg.
I appreciate it.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Paul Sankey Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hi Greg.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Gosh man.
It feels like it should be Friday for sure.
Greg I assume you're having an analyst meeting in December right? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That is correct.
If we look back to last December I know the world was kind of already changing at that time but it still feels – if I listen and I have to obviously check through the transcript but it still feels that essentially what you're doing here is either reiterating or possibly raising kind of everything that you laid out at that meeting? I just wanted – I know you'll know the answer right off the top of your head.
Is that broadly speaking true? Is there any elements of what you said in December that are drifting? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think your recollection is right on.
We kind of today said that we're going to go on the high end of the range of for example on the three areas that we targeted to create value.
Last year we gave a range as we were developing our plans and today we feel confident that we will be on the high end of that range.
And so very very encouraging.
And furthermore what we're looking at into 2016 because we also gave a preliminary indication of value that we felt like we could contribute in 2016.
And we've already captured some opportunities that will start to bear fruit in 2016.
So I'm actually quite encouraged about the outlook for 2016 from a overall what we do at Tesoro to create value versus all of the discussions we've been having about the market.
Yeah and I know you well enough to know that if there was anything that was kind of going awry as regards to what you'd laid out you'd just tell us.
And so essentially what you're doing is you're – everything is towards the upper end of the range that you had laid out at that time? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the only thing that doesn't look as attractive as what we thought last year was response to the last question that Chi asked around Salt Lake City.
And part of our you know we spent a lot of money.
We spent a little bit less than $400 million to create the value at Salt Lake primarily driven by processing waxy crude oil and in the short-term that doesn't look as attractive.
But everything else I think we feel very comfortable with.
Yeah.
And I guess what I'm driving at ultimately is that there's obviously been remarkable changes in the market.
A couple of things are obvious and one of them obviously benefits you which is the demand side has been strong.
But the differentials have collapsed.
The NGL story is horrendous and the MLP issue has been raised but you're still able to actually just sort of sail on with a raised outlook.
What have been the big – I mentioned demand obviously being a positive but it just strikes me that it's kind of remarkable that you're able to do this given the scale of the changes.
An obvious one is the Bakken differential being so much narrower.
Could you just observe where the challenges lie if you like if there are indeed any? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think on a broad scale from a logistics standpoint there's no question that outside the fringe areas of the Bakken that you're seeing a lot less activity.
We're fortunate that we're right in the heart of the Bakken and the types of customers we have to be able to both buy crude oil from as well as work with them to help lower their costs to get their crude oil to market through our logistics activities has been very very encouraging.
And maybe the number of opportunities may not be as great as it would have been in kind of the bull market that we were in for a while but it's very encouraging that we see a lot of really good organic growth opportunities.
So from a logistics standpoint our organic growth portfolio continues to look very good and we're – we have a number of opportunities both in North Dakota and out in the Rockies that we're working.
And so we're very very encouraged from that standpoint.
I think from a crude supply standpoint from a cost standpoint specifically around Bakken crude oil we've always felt that the market would become very efficient and clear to the areas based upon the transportation costs to get there.
And it's in some cases it's taken time but as we look around what's going to happen in North Dakota and how prices will set the differentials for Bakken crude oil as that crude clears to the market we're very confident that we can still take Bakken crude oil and source it into our system exactly like we planned on it over the last few years as a – because we believe that the cost to move that crude oil are going to reflect that what the markets tell them they need to be to be able to compete in the marketplace.
And so that's kind of how we see it Paul.
Yeah.
It makes perfect sense.
One delicate one just to roll – to finish it up.
The Vancouver delay you mentioned is there any end in sight to that? And I guess what you're telling me in the previous answer is that the Vancouver economics still do make sense regardless of the – I mean right now it looks like the dips are within train economics basically.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think our view is is that the economics – we looked as you would expect we evaluate that all the time and we take a view on where the dips are where there are opportunities to reduce the cost set.
So we're very confident that the movement of Bakken crude oil to the West Coast will continue to make sense over time.
And so we don't see any change there and our commitment to Vancouver Energy hasn't wavered from the very first day.
It's just a very slow time-consuming process that unfortunately most of it is outside of our control.
Yeah.
Just to finish.
Is there a deadline on the fact that it's been delayed? Or is that just a – I don't know what kind of delaying tactic – is there any kind of...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I wish there was.
Yeah okay.
Thanks Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning.
It's Faisel from Citi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning Greg.
Just going back to Steve's comments around getting towards investment grade can that be accomplished just through deleveraging? Or does the asset base have to be more diversified in order to get there? I thought that one of the hiccups or the issues that the rating agencies had was the concentration on the West Coast but maybe I'm wrong.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Steven will address it.
Yeah.
If you do read those credit reports they do focus on concentration on the West Coast although I think we've demonstrated both through what we've done with transforming the business through the Southern California acquisition the way we've run the integrated business model and the improvements we've made in the logistics business that being concentrated on the West Coast is a good thing.
And we believe the rating agencies are paying attention to the improvement in performance and how we manage capital there and we're able to continue to grow profitability and cash.
So we feel very very good about the business profile and in terms of the balance sheet our credit metrics and all that because of the business growth have moved very very close to investment grade.
So in terms of the debt side of the balance sheet we think there's only a need for very modest type deleveraging a few hundred million type of thing.
It's not a billion dollars.
And so we think that we can both grow into it through our earnings growth and over time some modest debt repayment will get us there.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got you.
And on the Marketing side the restatement here I just want to make sure I understand this.
So the wholesale business it's the entire spot-to-rack business that's been restated out of Refining and put into Retail.
Is that what I'm seeing here on the restatement? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
That's a little bit too broad of a definition because in there we do like a lot of unbranded just taking product to the over the racks when we have excess product.
That is not included in there.
It is business that's committed to customers is what the wholesale business is.
So where we have contracts with specific customers that's what the wholesale part of the business is in addition to our Retail business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
So it's only rack-to-retail then? There's no – the spot-to-rack is still sort of within the Refining segment? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So well let me just clarify that Faisel.
So initially it was our Retail marketing business where we had our brand that was given – that customers used a brand that either Tesoro owns or we have the rights to offer to customers.
That was our Retail business.
So the ARCO business the Tesoro business the U.S.A.
some Shell some Exxon and some Mobil.
That was the legacy Retail segment that reported externally.
Today in addition to that we have customers that do not use our brand but that have contracts to buy business from us on sometimes long-term contracts and sometimes a little bit shorter term but it's that business that's in there.
Where we just go to the market and sell unbranded product over the rack it does not include that business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay got it.
And is there any breakdown in the quarter how much was the difference between the way you guys used to report before versus the way you guys report today in terms of the wholesale versus the retail? Yeah we put it in our supplemental financial information and what we've done there is we've actually gone back and backcasted back to 2013 by quarter the way the segments would have looked and so you can compare that to what you've seen previously and give you a delta.
In 2013 2014 it was in the neighborhood of about $100 million a year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay that makes sense.
Thank you.
The next on the dropdown you guys are talking about in TLLP.
Given that the GP cash flow is a larger cut of the cash flow stream how do you guys think about the pricing? In the past we've seen you drop down the assets at a certain multiple but now that the GP cash flow is higher I guess we would normally think that the multiple would have to be lower in order to accommodate for that cash flow stream? I just want to understand philosophically how you're thinking about it.
Yeah I think that the first and foremost is to make sure that the overall deal economics create a lot of value for LP unit holders and the GP unit holder and so it comes down to the quality of the assets and the sustainability of the earnings that are in there and the required capital to maintain them so I think that drives 85% of it is good quality assets being dropped down.
But we do look at because of the way the GP and LP structures work to make sure that both LP unit holders and GP unit holders both value greatly from these transactions.
So we'll look at all mechanisms to do that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay last question from me.
It sounded like on the call you guys were talking about there was some headwinds during the quarter to the capture rate but it sounds like all those issues have been resolved.
Is it fair to say that as we sit here in the third quarter that the ability for you to capture more of the margin is better today than it was in the second quarter? That's correct.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate the time.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Faisel.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Greg.
Just a quick follow-up on the Vancouver.
Is there a point if they continue to delay and push it forward that you would say okay that we've been waiting long enough that we're going to look for an alternative option instead of say going EFSEC? Is there a red line inside the company that you guys are contemplating or that you would be looking at concurrently? And if there's an alternative option then what that option may look like.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I was going to say something about red lines but I'd better not.
So right now Paul I mean we're absolutely committed to Vancouver Energy and we're very confident that – the EFSEC process looks at the actual permitting process in that the overall impact of what this does to the community to the state to the supply of this type of crude oil to the West Coast to the improvements in lowering carbon intensity of crude oil that's produced in the United States made into products and sold on the West Coast that are all positive.
We just believe when all of that's taken into consideration that there'll be support that there'll be very strong support for the project.
So we don't see anything at this stage that would ever tell us not to keep pursuing the project.
Unless we learn something down the road that we don't know today there's nothing that tells us we won't continue to pursue this.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
A final question.
Do you have a number you can share inside your network what is the same-store sales in the third quarter so far and the year-over-year growth? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We talked about during the discussion earlier that our Marketing growth year-on-year was up around 3% during Q2 versus last year and we said that it's continuing at that pace so far whatever we are five weeks into the third quarter we are experiencing that same pace of growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sorry guys.
Just one last question.
Just want to know in the segment data that the POP exposure and keep-hold exposure that used to be at the midstream business at QEP where does that sit now? Does that sit within Refining or Marketing or is it within the Corporate segment? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No the agreement between Tesoro and Tesoro Logistics to take the commodity exposure off of the NGLs is done in our Refining segment.
And as we said it's immaterial to the company.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Gotcha.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate that.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Faisel.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you everyone.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions.
So thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Towanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sam Ramraj Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss third quarter 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
The earnings release which includes financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings release which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and our future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our third quarter financial performance and then turn the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported record quarterly results.
We believe this performance demonstrates our continued focus on executing our business improvement plans running our refineries efficiently and at high rates and creating shareholder value by productively allocating cash.
Third quarter net earnings from continuing operations were $759 million or $6.13 per diluted share compared to $397 million or $3.06 per diluted share last year.
Reported results in the third quarter include an inventory charge due to a lower cost or market valuation adjustment of $83 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
This is a result of the decline in crude oil and product prices relative to our LIFO carrying value.
Excluding this impact and the exclusion of a gain related to an insurance settlement of $0.06 per share adjusted net earnings for the quarter were $802 million or $6.48 a share.
We delivered record adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of approximately $1.6 billion.
This represents an increase of 84% from $858 million last year.
This was primarily due to successful execution of our business improvement plans strong marketing sales and high utilization at our refineries.
Refining segment's adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter 2015 was approximately $1.1 billion an increase of 70% from $657 million a year ago.
Our total refinery throughput for the quarter was 861 000 barrels a day or 101% utilization.
During the quarter we successfully completed a turnaround at our Los Angeles refinery.
Our ongoing business improvement efforts at this refinery allowed us to utilize new pipeline connections and we're able to share intermediate feedstock between different portions of the refinery and run at higher utilization.
The Tesoro Index was $23.09 per barrel in the third quarter with the realized gross refining margin of $20.49 per barrel or 89% of the Tesoro Index.
This compares to a realized gross refining margin of $14.92 a barrel or 121% of the Tesoro Index from last year.
This quarter's capture rate was impacted by the combination of weaker crude oil differentials and maintenance activity at our Los Angeles refinery.
Manufacturing costs in the third quarter decreased $0.58 per barrel over the same period last year to $4.84 per barrel.
This decrease was primarily due to continued lower energy prices and high refinery utilization.
The logistics segment's adjusted EBITDA was $158 million in the third quarter compared to $80 million a year ago.
The substantial year-over-year increase was driven by contribution from the Rockies Natural Gas Business which delivered $213 million of EBITDA year-to-date and increased volumes in our crude oil gathering business.
The total general partner and limited partner distributions received by Tesoro were $38 million during the third quarter and $106 million year-to-date.
This is an increase of $51 million or 93% versus last year further highlighting the substantial value creation for Tesoro shareholders as a result of our execution of the logistics growth plan.
The marketing segment's EBITDA was a record $390 million more than double the $190 million seen in the third quarter of last year.
This is primarily due to higher fuel volumes reflecting strong growth in consumer demand.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up 2.1% relative to last year.
As a result of driving strong operating performance through our business improvement plan and the favorable market impacts seen this year Tesoro generated $1.2 billion of free cash flow in the first nine months of this year after payment of $169 million of dividends on Tesoro shares and $135 million on TLLP public distributions.
Year-to-date we've deployed this capital as follows.
We invested $440 million in high return capital projects in Tesoro and TLLP.
We repurchased approximately 5.5 million shares for $494 million at an average price of about $90 a share and we repaid $398 million of secured debt.
We remain committed to continuing to allocate capital to create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
We do this by focusing first on investing in our business improvements and high return capital projects.
We also want to continue to grow our dividend and remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases.
In addition we're continuing our efforts to drive Tesoro and TLLP towards investment-grade credit ratings.
We paid down $398 million of secured debt at Tesoro and currently have no outstanding secured borrowings.
On September 30t S&amp;P reaffirmed the credit ratings on both Tesoro and Tesoro Logistics while placing both entities on a positive outlook.
Given the transformative substantial improvements we have made in our base business coupled with portfolio enhancements we believe that we're well-positioned to achieve our long-term goal in investment-grade credit rating.
This is important to both companies as it lowers the cost of borrowings allows for longer term borrowings and creates greater financial flexibility.
Looking ahead you can find details of our planned throughput manufacturing cost per barrel and other elements related to our fourth quarter outlook in our earnings release issued yesterday.
We are confident in our ability to drive earnings growth for 2015 and beyond as we focus on capturing value across our integrated business model and executing on our business improvement programs which we believe will create substantial shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
We had a record quarter of EBITDA and earnings per share.
We attribute this to three things.
One strong operational execution.
We achieved 101% refinery utilization rate.
Two record marketing volume supported by higher consumer demand.
And three capturing value through our business improvement programs.
Also we returned $287 million to shareholders and paid down $399 million of debt as Steven just stated.
Year-to-date we returned a total of $663 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Now turning to our operations.
Our refining business delivered record results driven by high reliability high utilization and lower operating costs.
The Tesoro Index in the third quarter averaged over $23 per barrel which is one of the highest levels we have seen for a quarter.
The summer peak driving season led to an increase in U.S.
gasoline demand.
In fact U.S.
vehicle miles traveled in July increased 4.2% year-over-year to $284 billion which is a record.
In California the economy remains strong and continues to improve.
Year-to-date vehicle miles traveled grew 2.9% over last year.
This was aided by an expanding employment.
In the West Coast we maintained a competitive position by optimize our operations to maximize gasoline production and running full crude rates at our Los Angeles refinery despite a planned turnaround.
Utilization in our California region was in excess of 100%.
In the Pacific Northwest we optimized our crude slate to run higher levels of advantaged crude oil and substituted Canadian crude oil for waterborne feedstocks.
In the Mid-Continent crack spreads remained strong.
Our Salt Lake City refinery had a record throughput in the quarter.
We ran 64 000 barrels per day of crude oil including 20 000 barrels of waxy crude oil following the successful completion of the expansion project in the second quarter.
Moving to our logistics segment.
TLLP announced another strong quarter of growing volume across the business.
Both our crude oil and natural gas gathering businesses continued to grow volumes in the face of a challenging commodity price environment.
Our crude oil gathering volumes in the quarter were up 47% year-over-year.
Natural gas gathering volumes increased approximately 10% during the first nine months of the year.
For the first nine months of 2015 the Rockies Natural Gas Business contributed $213 million of adjusted EBITDA and is on track to contribute approximately $275 million of EBITDA for the full year.
We are in the final stages of offering Tesoro Logistics the opportunity to acquire crude oil and refined product storage and pipeline assets in Los Angeles.
We expect these assets to deliver annual EBITDA to TLLP in the range of $50 million to $75 million.
TLLP expects to fund this transaction through an equal combination of debt and issuing units to Tesoro.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
TLLP expects to deliver $650 million to $670 million of EBITDA for full year 2015 and remains fully committed to the $1 billion EBITDA target established for 2017.
We are committed to growing a full-service logistics business for our focus on growing and optimizing our stable fee-based business expanding our backlog of high return organic growth projects and pursuing third-party transactions and providing future dropdown opportunities.
Shifting to our marketing segment.
EBITDA for the quarter was a record $390 million.
This was the result of volume growth supported by strong consumer demand and our marketing integration which was 94% by the end of the quarter.
We are successfully executing our business improvement plans with strong contributions from our value chain optimization strategy.
This translates into increased and sustainable EBITDA growth which is in excess of market gains.
Year-to-date our business improvements are $505 million.
We delivered approximately $130 million in West Coast improvements exceeding our goal of $95 million to $125 million for the full year.
For example we improved pipeline connections between the Los Angeles refinery sites; crude oil optimization from the integration of the Los Angeles refinery sites and new cargo sharing between our California refineries.
We captured margin improvements of approximately $120 million compared to our full year goal of $130 million to $170 million with contributions from the completion of the second phase expansion of the waxy crude oil project at our Salt Lake City refinery improved crude blending processes at our Mandan refinery and operating expense reductions.
We also delivered $255 million of logistics growth year-to-date against our target of $325 million to $375 million of logistics improvements for the full year.
We are on track to achieving our business improvement commitment of $670 million for this year.
To give you an update on our Vancouver Energy project we expect the Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC to release the Draft Environmental Impact Statement at the end of November.
We are committed to the proposed 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail-to-marine terminal and remain very confident that a thorough evaluation will clearly demonstrate that we can design construct and operate a safe environmentally responsible facility that offers benefits to the state of Washington and the West Coast.
As we look forward we remain positive on our outlook.
The fourth quarter is typically a seasonally weaker demand period.
However crack spreads quarter-to-date have been higher than 2014 with PADD 5 gasoline demand up about 3% year-over-year benefiting from increase in vehicle miles traveled.
While the current pace of high demand growth for Clean Products would be hard to maintain we believe demand growth will be between 0.5% to 1% in 2016 which is still healthy and positive for our business.
We expect utilization in the fourth quarter to be between 92% and 97%.
This guidance includes planned maintenance in our California region.
We look forward to discussing our performance in 2015 and outlining our plans for 2016 at our Analyst and Investor Day event on December 9 in New York City.
For additional details on this event please follow up with our Investor Relations team.
So let me conclude by saying that we have built a strong integrated refining logistics and marketing business and have a very competitive position on the West Coast.
Independent of the favorable market conditions we continue to efficiently optimize our assets across the value chain deliver on our commitments and create shareholder value.
Now we'll take your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Neil.
So it was an outstanding quarter here at the retail segment.
Just wanted to dive deeper there.
Is the strength in the quarter really a function of the demand you're seeing in California? And I know we'll get a little bit more clarity on this on December 9 but how are you thinking about different strategies to create incremental value out of your retail/wholesale business? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We'd continue to improve our marketing operations over time and are realizing the benefits in addition to a very favorable market environment that you just stated.
And our primary focus is to: one to continue to grow our marketing business and deliver higher integration than we've had in the past.
Two we want to strengthen our portfolio of marketing assets that we believe we can create better value with.
And then third we're going to strengthen our offering that we offer to customers and believe they will be able to deliver substantial value from that.
And as you said we will share our plans at the meeting we have in December.
Thanks Greg.
And the second question I recognize there are sensitivities around this.
But you publicly expressed an interest in becoming larger in the Mid-Continent as you think about diversifying the portfolio.
In a scenario where U.S.
production is lower especially in the Mid-Continent do you think these differentials will be sustainably tighter? And does that change the way you think about the potential value creation from getting larger in the Mid-Continent? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
We continue to evaluate all the opportunities for the company.
As you would expect we look at all the drivers of how we create value and the market is one of those things that we take into consideration.
We don't see a material change that would alter our view on our desire to continue to grow the company in all aspects refining marketing and logistics and moving more east from our strong position on the West Coast.
Thanks Greg.
Congrats on the quarter.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Neil.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jeff.
Congratulations on the progress on moving towards investment grade.
I know you're not there yet but it's obviously that you are making good progress.
I was hoping to ask about the business improvements especially on the logistics operation.
I think that was a big increase the $255 million relative to second quarter I believe was 155 million.
Could you talk about the progress during the quarter and the outlook for hitting the target? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Jeff.
So our logistics as you're aware is really comprised of two things.
One is the growth as a result of the Natural Gas Business acquisition so the cumulative impact of continuing to deliver on the business in the Rockies primarily is like I said in my comments on target and will be on the high range of our expectations even in a pretty challenging commodity environment.
And then secondly continued growth really across the system through our efforts to better optimize the assets as well as organic growth projects coming on.
One of the key drivers for us is the ability to go out and identify good opportunities in the marketplace whether they be in the crude oil refined products or Natural Gas Business and organically grow that business.
So it's just a continuation of that.
Understand.
Secondly if I could the market conditions in California have been favorable this year.
But if you could talk a little bit about what you think normalized margins might look like given the changing economic and demand environment for West Coast margins or California refining margins.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
As we look at the West Coast and we just look at the overall market fundamentals supply demand utilization rates in the refineries across the system and over time maybe a slow start going back a number of years after the financial crisis but over time that has just continued to improve as primarily the California economy has gotten a lot stronger.
So the fundamental drivers of the business specifically in California but the West Coast in general as the way we look at it has continued to just be favorable to what drives our business.
And so our outlook over time is we will look at about a $1 to $2 improvement in our Index next year which is primarily driven by just the stronger fundamental analysis of the market.
And that's not versus 2015.
Jeff that's averages like a base of of 2014 for our Index and then we look at that off of 2014 because of the unusual circumstances in 2015.
Sure.
Thanks for your comments.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Heffern with RBC.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Brad.
...following on on the previous question given the sort of apparent tightness in California gasoline regardless of whether Torrance comes back online in the near future or not has it given you any second thoughts about the potential FCC decommissioning in LA and/or the mixed xylenes project and whether you actually want to be subtracting incremental gasoline volumes out of the California market? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> First let me just clarify on the work we're doing in Los Angeles which we referred to as the integration and compliance project.
The purpose of the work there is one to integrate the two facilities as a result of physically connecting the two refineries.
We're able to create more flexibility in the yield structure of the refinery.
So we can actually make the same amount of gasoline but we have more flexibility to supply the market with either diesel fuel or jet fuel if that's what the demand in the market is.
So that we have considerable flexibility there and that's what that project is driven by.
The work on our mixed xylenes project which is progressing extremely well basically allows us to produce a higher value product.
So what we are doing is making a higher value product relative to gasoline blending components and then selling that into a market that's very very attractive.
So long answer to your question but the answer is no we are still very committed to both of those projects because of what they deliver to the market and for the company.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
...thinking about Tesoro being one of the larger runners of Bakken how do you think about Bakken volumes potentially declining? The impact on the system whether it still makes sense to be running Bakken and Anacortes given spread so tight with Brent how do you see that affecting the system going forward? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think in the short-term there have been factors that have caused the differentials to tighten up with some of the things going on in Canada which has definitely put pressure on the differentials versus how they have been historically.
However as we look out over time even in a lower price environment we still see economic value to be able to move Bakken to the West Coast and achieve the benefits that we have always stated which primarily are driven by the yield improvements in the refineries as long as you can competitively price the crude in there.
And as we've seen how that's traded and there is a lot of pressure on prices or cost to move the crude to the West Coast which will allow to maintain its competitiveness in our view.
Okay.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Doug Greg clearly extraordinary cash flows in this environment.
Just wondering what your latest thoughts are in terms of use of I think what you've described to me before as a tremendous windfall.
I'm thinking about pension we don't see you talk too much about that.
And perhaps not to put you in the spot but perhaps even some more innovative issues such as upstream integration.
And I've got a follow-up please.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
First let me – I'm going to ask Steven to comment to you on how we use our free cash flow.
Good morning Doug.
So at a high level first our commitment to creating value through cash deployment hasn't changed.
We really start first by making sure that we've got funding for our business improvement our high return capital projects.
As we move beyond that we want to continue over time to grow the dividend and we want to be able to continue to return cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases as well.
When we look at the balance sheet really to your question about paying down debt or pension we like to have a approach to managing both.
In fact our pension plan we have been funding about $60 million a year every year above what's required to over time take that liability down and really kind of dollar cost average into it.
We find that to be a very effective approach so we'll continue to do that and continue to evaluate that.
And in terms of debt as we said in our remarks eliminating secured debt from the portfolio not only helps us with investment grade but having the leverage levels we do now we've got much more flexibility as we go forward to continue to invest in growth of the company whether that be kind of the business improvements we talk about or potential bolt-on acquisitions and those types of things.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would just add to Steven's comments Doug just to maybe elaborate on other things.
It's interesting in the environment that we find ourselves in now with.
From a price standpoint for crude oil and natural gas we are seeing lots of interesting opportunities across the whole value chain.
And we are actively looking at a number of things.
I would probably say that the ideas and the opportunities today are probably greater for us than they were – than when the prices were higher.
So it runs the whole gamut of all different possibilities and we're very actively looking at a number of things.
Okay.
I appreciate the answers.
I guess the follow-ups and it's probably something as – maybe it's a December issue but your latest given the strength of retail this quarter Greg that what are your latest thoughts in terms of whether you are getting recognition for the value of those assets and what you might do to get greater recognition let's say? And I will leave it there.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Our marketing business as I kind of stated a little bit earlier about kind of what we're looking out there we're very confident that we can continue to grow the contributions of marketing to our reintegrated value chain.
It's an integral part of that business and we really want to strengthen the portfolio of different types of outlets that we have through our customers.
And so we'll talk more fully about our plans and our ideas going forward because we see very significant potential there to grow that business.
Thanks Doug.
All right.
Appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
First question just on the operating expense reduction progress that you talked about.
You've saved a lot year-over-year on a dollar basis and a per barrel as well.
When you look ahead at the operating expense reduction potential is it more just to offset ongoing inflation or do you think that there is an ability to continue to cut? Obviously there has been some natural gas help this year as well.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we refer to it as improve rather than cut.
But we would say that we always target to offset the inflationary cost of doing business.
And our view is that in total the inflation in our business averages between 3% to 4% per year.
So we always try to offset that by creative ways to lower and improve our cost structure.
We also based upon benchmarking that believe that there are opportunities to drive other improvements in the business above and beyond the just the offsetting the inflationary costs and we are very focused on doing that.
And that will come over time over the next couple of years in that.
But we have made significant progress and having a very competitive cost position.
But there are additional opportunities.
Okay.
On the West Coast improvements being above the high end of the range for the year two quarters or three quarters would you call that a timing function or are there more opportunities that you see there to continue to drive improvement? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes continued delivery of our fundamental approach to drive improvements in the business there and we see additional opportunities which we will talk about in about 45 days or whenever it is in New York.
So it's actually quite encouraging our ability to go in and deliver those improvements and keep delivering more of those.
And if I can just sneak one last one on the capture rates.
They are pretty flattish sequentially 3Q versus 2Q you provided some helpful commentary last quarter.
Just curious if you have anything you would offer up about how to think about capture rates this quarter any moving pieces that you think would matter to us.
Yeah.
As we look at the fourth quarter based on the production plans we laid out and the costs in the current market environment we expect capture rates to be at or slightly above what we saw in the third quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin with Cowen &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Good morning everybody.
How are you? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great Sam.
So there is a few dropdowns in the hopper it seems like.
And this next tranche of TLLP transfers seems like it's going to be a little more sponsor funded than they have in the past.
Can you talk about the thought process there? And specifically sort of what I'm getting at is is that evaluated as a use of capital for Tesoro or is that more of a response to market conditions? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let Steven comment on that.
Yeah.
It's actually a combination of both.
I think on the one hand as you see the equity markets for the units in the MLP space it's a very very volatile market right now.
And so it's not a very attractive place right now to raise capital.
All that being said as Tesoro we believe it's a good investment for Tesoro shareholders to own and continue to own shares and maybe even increase ownership in TLLP over time.
But to balance that with as we drop these assets down generating cash for us to be able to bring back to Tesoro and deploy for high value.
And so our approach as Greg said in his prepared remarks of this being about 50%-50% new debt and 50% Tesoro taking equity we think accomplishes those objectives.
And then also we really want to see TLLP move to investment grade.
It's very important given how much growth there is there and how much you touch the debt markets to have the ability to take long duration borrowings to fund that growth.
And so by going 50%-50% or in that range plus or minus around there allows us to naturally delever TLLP as well.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
And secondly on M&amp;A just to pick your brain a little bit location is a huge part of evaluating potential candidates for acquisition obviously.
Where would – not just location in terms of crude access but also maybe in terms of market access where does kind of direct marketing capabilities or the opportunity for retail integration or already existing retail integration kind of rank on your evaluation process of looking at assets to potentially bring into the fold? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean fundamentally our business model is to be a highly integrated across the value chain.
We've been creating that.
We have more work to do and we will deliver higher levels of integration.
So whether it be refining marketing or logistics the opportunities that we look at and how we strategically think about how can we create value across that value chain would include all segments of the business and particularly driven by the complementary impact that they have on each other.
All right.
Thank you so much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> A number of hopefully quick questions.
Steven let's assume you have achieved on your investment grade any rough estimate how much is the interest saving or that crude purchase saving that you may be able to achieve because I presume that you no longer need to post the net (34:19) so any rough estimate on what is the benefit? Sure.
Good morning.
I think the most substantial benefit will be on the cost of debt within TLLP.
And if you look at the current debt levels there roughly $3 billion and that will continue to grow as we grow the business.
And just based upon what we have looked at historically on an average basis of spreads that could be 150 basis points or 250 basis points.
So call it $60 million or $80 million a year and probably growing.
So that's a direct savings.
But probably equally important is the ability to have longer duration debt and have more stable access to the markets.
Tesoro obviously carries some debt as well so I think about that 150 basis point number makes sense at the Tesoro level.
And then you're right there will be commercial and operational savings although given how strong our financial performance is we've been working on that already.
So even absent investment-grade we've been driving down LC costs and borrowing costs with suppliers.
There will be some there but it will be smaller than the interest savings.
Inc.</span></strong> I see.
And Steven or Greg do you guys have a cash return PL target? I think we do think about all of those collectively.
We think about driving total shareholder return.
And when you look at the levers to do that we think the biggest lever we can pull to create the best shareholder return is our business improvement organic growth programs really across the portfolio followed by smart and thoughtful acquisitions that bolt into that that either accelerate those growths or add to it.
And then in terms of the dividend we want to grow the dividend over time as the company grows.
And then when you have excess cash beyond those things buyback shares – and you have seen what we have done with buybacks and we would like to be able to continue to do all of those.
And so the key is to make sure that even in a market – neutral environment which we plan to that we can generate operational cash from the business to fund all of that and still naturally delever and yet have a stronger balance sheet as we do it.
Those are the variables we think about Paul.
So over time you look at the last five years the growth in just the value of the shares has substantially returned more relative value.
If you look at the three impacts of dividend share purchase and the stock we hope to keep driving all three of those collectively to be top in the industry.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg the fourth quarter turnaround you said primarily accrued unit or it is conversion units in California for you guys? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The fourth quarter turnaround is actually coming to completion here and it is primarily accrued unit.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And Steven do you have an estimate what might have been the opportunity cost loss from the trend downturn in the third quarter? We actually came in about where we expected to.
So when we kind of set out our throughput rates – and actually they were actually down a little bit early compared – we don't quantify our LTO per se.
But when we give you our guidance and our outlook we kind of take all of that into account.
And on the utilization side we actually came in a little bit favorable to what we thought going into the third quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> A final question.
Greg I think last time I asked and you said that in order for you to keep the schedule to be on track for the LA integration project and the mixed xylene you need to get the permit by probably the first half of next year.
Any change in view that whether you still believe that you are progressing and that should be able to achieve or that you think we may see some delay? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're exactly right Paul in our critical path on both the Los Angeles project and the mixed xylene project the isomerization project and Vancouver Energy permitting is in the critical path of every one of those projects.
And we are actively working every one of those permitting processes.
But I will tell you it's very difficult.
Permitting is incredibly challenging in that but right now everything that we see we stay on our plan.
But it's not easy.
It's very difficult.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And just want to – I have a final point I want to say thank you that consolidating your presentation into your press release on the guidance saved us some headache because it's too many presentation and perhaps we need doing the earning season so really helpful.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
Take care.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi there.
I'm going to start with sort of a philosophical question.
Your business mix you've got free cash flow from your mature refining assets you've been operating well and that's created a strong sponsorship for the midstream growth and the retail.
Obviously the cash flows for refining right now they're good.
In other times they're not so good.
So there is sort of a through cycle free cash flow which creates the strength for you to be aggressive in the midstream.
As you think about bolt-on acquisitions how do you think about that balance evolving? Are you worried that you'll end up with too much sort of logistics growth assets that need external funding and not enough cash flow in the refining coal? Just some thoughts around that general balance.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the logistics assets are pretty much self-funding Ed.
So they're not tied.
If you look they're almost completely standalone with the exception of when Tesoro takes back equity.
So from a logistics standpoint we're very confident we can continue to grow that business by our capability to both fund through debt equity both public and Tesoro-backed equity there and that model will continue to sustain itself.
The other part from the cash flow generated from refining as Steven has said a couple of time today that one is we are very focused on investing in driving high reliability in our assets through our asset integrity programs and making very very good progress from that standpoint.
And that requires a certain amount of cash flow which isn't part of free cash flow but it's important to recognize that that is a use of cash that we generated from refining operations.
But we believe with the improvements that we've driven in the refining business and the way that we operate the model that even in an environment that were to maybe not be as attractive as we've seen over the last few years we'll still have cash flow that will allow us to do the things that we need to do with the company.
And then a question is how we grow our marketing business.
We want to be able to grow our marketing business and that requires some cash also do that.
And we'll talk more about that at our Analyst Meeting.
And then you mentioned bolt-on acquisitions.
I mean presumably those are all – are they midstream retail or do they include refining as well? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When we talk about bolt-on acquisitions those are primarily in the marketing and logistics space.
They're not – a bolt-on acquisition wouldn't be a acquisition of say a refinery.
We would consider that a little bit different.
And then California you said you're going to raise your outlook for next year but I mean eventually efficiency gains are going to kick in to that market and that may impact margins longer term.
Is this a signal of sort of a sustainable increase in margins or would just sort of for the next few years? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think on the West Coast as we look at the drivers our view is that they are fundamental – the margin environment on the West Coast is fundamentally supported by the supply/demand the economic environment on the West Coast and that we see that kind of being able to sustain itself like that.
So we see that is a sustainable improvement in the environment.
So sort of five-year timeframe.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Out in time.
I don't know three years five years 10 years.
The threat is not only in California but everywhere else is what happens to gasoline demand over time and then how are the reactions to gasoline demand if it declines over time.
Our view is it will slightly decline going out over a longer timeframe like you said but not significantly.
Helpful and clear.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Is it possible for you to breakdown sort of the profitability from retail and marketing? I mean it looks like this is sort of the strongest unit margin we've seen since you recast the numbers.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So just trying to figure out sort of how this breaks down.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean you're exactly right.
I mean per unit profitability is extremely strong.
But I'm not sure if I understand what you mean break it down.
It's strong ...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Well I guess there's the – sorry there is this retail component and then there is the marketing component and the retail fuel margin and then there's the wholesale of marketing margin which I think is – they can move in different directions.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We just talk about it as our overall aggregate refining margin and not the details.
I mean I think the point to make is that the aggregate margin from our marketing business was stronger than it has been.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Do those two businesses sort of move together in tandem or can they sometimes move in opposite directions? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean they're driven by competitive market factors so they can move different way depending on what's going on in the marketplace.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then in terms of – you guys talked about you paid down roughly $400 million in debt.
Is there a target of how much more you'd like to pay down from here on out or are we sort of at the level you would like? I think in terms of the leverage levels we're even beyond what's required for investment-grade at Tesoro.
The key here around this was to pay down secured debt and that's really what we wanted to accomplish by paying down the term loan.
But we're well below what's required from a leverage perspective at Tesoro.
So we've got the flexibility on the balance sheet now to execute the strategy and achieve investment-grade.
At TLLP in fact debt levels on an absolute basis will increase to support the growth and so the key with TLLP is to continue to move closer and closer to that $1 billion of EBITDA to have that kind of standalone size that warrants investment-grade rating.
And so that's how I would think about it from a macro perspective.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And as we think about sort of the movement of crude by rail to the West Coast for you guys there was some commentary in the public domain about some of the Canadian rail companies reducing their rates in order to bring more business back on their rail systems.
I just want to understand I mean is there any sort of benefit that that could accrue to you in terms of potentially lower costs? Are those negotiations that you've had or are going to have? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Faisel the answer to your question is that the competitive pressure being put on the distribution system not only in rail rates but loading rates unloading rates railcar rates and we've been saying for some time we felt like that would manifest into lower total cost to move crude in and you're right the Canadians have publicly stated their effort to maintain to become even more competitive and we believe that that will happen here also.
We see it in pockets already and it will continue to drive a more competitive cost of supply to get the crude oil to the markets that we're very confident will happen and believe that's one of the key drivers why Vancouver Energy will be very attractive.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the time.
Appreciate it.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Blair with Tudor Pickering.
Please proceed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my question here.
Steven I was wondering if you could provide any color on 2015 CapEx.
Looks like it moved up a little bit with a fairly large increase for TSO but then a drop for TLLP.
Any further color there? Yeah.
So first on the Tesoro side as we moved through the year we identified really two areas where we saw opportunity to make additional investment.
About a third of that has to do with us driving some substantial improvements in our systems and our back office processes to make us – as we've grown the company to make us even more efficient in the back office but it particularly gives us ability to be more scalable as we grow the company with our administrative and back office processes.
The other two-thirds are high return high payback projects that we've identified in refining as we've gone through the year that we really wanted to get on and execute because they're very attractive capital projects.
So that's the increase in Tesoro.
The decrease in TLLP really is more of a timing issue than anything.
We have seen a couple of our projects move and we expect to execute a strong capital program in 2016 which we'll share with you at Investor Day.
But that's the key driver there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Then also Steven can you provide us any sort of number on Tesoro's exposure to the low carbon fuel standard credits in California? It looks like pricing for those credits is up to about $64 a credit in September.
It's only $25 a credit earlier this year.
Is there any way that we can have a sensitivity there to see the impact on Tesoro's EBITDA from the change in these regulatory price credits? Yeah.
As we think about those types of required fees that were to pass on to consumers it's just that.
We're required to pass those along and we do that every day.
And so as we look at it we don't expect it to have a material impact on our business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then a final question for Greg.
I was curious if you had any thoughts on the Salt Lake refining market going forward.
On the product side we have a couple of refinery expansions coming through this year.
And then on the crude side we've seen a fall in – Utah rig counts have fallen and Utah crude production.
Are we being set up here for structurally lower Salt Lake refining margins going forward? And just any thoughts there would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So to answer your second question first there is no question that the waxy crude oil production has been significantly impacted by the price.
And I think to the best of my knowledge there are no rigs drilling for waxy crude oil in Utah at this time.
So we've seen good supply of waxy crude oil in 2015 and I think I mentioned in my comments that during the month of – during the third quarter excuse me we ran about 20 000 barrels a day of waxy crude oil in Salt Lake.
Our plans for 2016 is we've looked at sourcing crude and that we're going to have good supplies of waxy crude oil but below what we would like to be able to run.
So we've sourced waxy crude oil but not to the level.
I mean we have capacity to run that we've demonstrated by our project far greater quantities of waxy crude oil than we ever have in the past but those aren't going to be available.
So that definitely is going to be not as available as it has in the past but we have got good waxy crude oil supply for 2016.
On the capacity expansions in Salt Lake Utah is a very seasonal – that region is a very seasonal market driven by high demand in the summer and less demand in the winter.
And from our standpoint because we drive a very integrated value chain we're able to take our production and put it into our marketing outlets across the whole system which is going into the Utah area and then going North and West up into the Eastern part of Washington and then down into our outlets in Nevada.
So we have the capability to absorb our production into our system and that's the value of our integrated business.
And we'll have to see what happens with other changes out there over time.
I don't know.
We'll see what happens to those changes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Evan.
Yeah I mean looking some follow-up to the prior strategic questions and maybe broader in scope.
I mean Greg you've been a very strategic thinker as a CEO and you've made a series of attractive transactions in various different directions.
The upstream market to some extent the midstream market is under incredible stress.
Your results speak for themselves.
I mean how do you see the opportunities that are – the strategic landscape or see the scope to be more transformative in this environment particularly given a reasonably optimistic outlook on refining your base margin business? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably all I can add to your question from other comments earlier Evan is that I think as a company we take a step back and we look at the market where we are.
We're very focused on how we can create value.
We understand what we need to do and how we can create value no matter what segment it's in.
So what's more important to us is how we drive that integrated value because across that value chain the way we invest capital and also by the way we make decisions to optimize the assets it's a fundamental driver of value creation for us.
So as we look at opportunities as I mentioned earlier to maybe – I can't remember if it was Doug or someone that asked a question about the different opportunities – we are looking at unbelievable numbers of things to be able to say how do we strengthen our business position no matter where it is in that value chain.
And the opportunities are – there's some very very interesting opportunities.
Some of them are small and some of them are larger in scale.
But we continue to look at those things.
And we're fairly confident that over time we'll be able to capture and deliver very accretive opportunities for our shareholders...
In your career - President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Yeah.
I mean but in your career with a broader perspective I mean have you seen there's this incredible dislocation right in terms of the upstream to the downstream and the changing of the business model of Tesoro.
Maybe if you've had any thoughts of maybe putting it in a broader historical context because it seems every deal comes down to the particulars.
It just seems as though a very opportunistic kind of market is what I would say.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I wouldn't disagree with you.
I think it is very opportunistic but you have to have ideas and then really dig into those ideas to see what the drivers are and how you can create value so probably not doing a very good job of answering your question.
It's kind of a difficult question on an earnings call to talk about so.
That's fair enough.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it is.
I think it's an interesting environment and how you look at things has to be considered over time not for today but over time.
And I think that's what the most important thing.
How do you think they fit into the structure of things that are going on that you can find either a niche or an edge there to create value over time and that's what we are trying to do? Okay.
I appreciate your comments.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Roger.
I guess quick question for you.
I don't think anybody has asked it.
I was wondering in California we've seen some discussions that the LCF is leading at least some or the other wholesale players to change their pricing structure.
I was wondering if you could give us any clarity on kind of the impacts – 2014 to 2015 2015 to 2016 here with the LCF and whether or not that's going to impact margins in any way for you? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I think just to be clear – and Steven addressed this a little bit earlier – the regulatory environment in California that's placing additional cost as a result of emissions our view is are being passed on to the consumer; in some places very clearly passed on and the money is turned over to the state by the way that we do that.
And our view is that where we are today and the things that are changing over time that that will continue to be the case.
There's some – some of those – I think when you're referring to the low carbon fuel standard there are actually some uncertainty from a regulatory standpoint of what actually is ultimately going to happen in that – not in the short-term but probably in the little bit more in the intermediate term.
But in general I think the comment is that those additional emission costs are being borne by the consumer.
Okay.
And kind of a change of direction here.
The comments in the press release on the strategic update – and I apologize if some of this has been asked before – but I just wanted to understand in terms of the logistics side of the business the $255 million and then there is commentary about the $213 million which is clearly being driven by the growth in the higher processing volumes and it sounds like just general movement of natural gas.
How much of that is sort of a market share gain growth that was already in place? Is there any risk of a lack of underlying growth in gas supply in that region that could impact your growth expectations in 2016 and 2017? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
You have to look at all the – we have three primary segments in our logistics company.
We have our refined products segment which is the biggest part of the business.
And that's very stable and there's some opportunities in that part of the business.
Our crude oil gathering and pipeline business has continued to grow.
And even in a difficult environment because of where our assets are and our ability to source crude from those assets into our refining system we see the potential to continue to grow and even expand that business into certain areas.
And then the natural gas business because it's primarily concentrated in the Rocky Mountain area has been solid.
And we see solid performance there.
And the opportunities we see which Steven alluded a little bit earlier in his comments about the capital program some of them being impacted by timing but the fundamental drivers are different than what we saw there.
So we see continued solid performance in our natural gas business.
So is it reasonable to assume you do have market share growth in that region then? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Definitely market share growth in the crude oil business.
Maintaining our position in the natural gas business and as some of our customers have grown their production we maintain their – their growth drives our growth.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hi Greg.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Fine thank you sir.
It sounds like you're doing good as well – doing well I should say.
Greg we had an interesting conversation in January about the crude market and then about the positioning of the Saudis (60:57).
Could you just give us your latest thoughts on things like the declines that we are likely to see in the Bakken and how that will affect you? You mentioned to me in January crude competition in the Pacific basin has been potentially very impactful in this market share war environment.
I'd just be very interested by your latest views.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably Paul not a lot different.
I mean we're seeing very competitive pricing of foreign crude oils into the West Coast from the Middle East and actually other places.
And our ability to take some different grades of crude which helps drive our business improvement opportunities has been very good.
We're working on ways to continue to enhance the delivery costs of those crudes in that and making very good progress.
So the overall market environment is – there is no question whether the impact on prices has had an impact on some of the differentials.
But in general the ability to get the supply and take other types of crude oil into our system has worked out extremely well and our ability to get crude from the Middle East is very attractive.
I guess you're talking about tanker rates is that what you're referring to there? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not just tanker rates but really what we're trying to do to optimize the supply cost so once we get the crude into our system how we can take advantage of supply multiple refineries with crude from like the VLCCs and things we're doing to actually – to even – we're working on some pretty creative things that we haven't done yet on the West Coast that will allow us to get even lower delivery costs into the system that we'll talk more about next year.
But really focused on how do you capture some cost savings by the actual delivery of the crude oil into our system regardless of that how the crude is priced in that.
Okay.
And then can you just – a follow-on will just be on rail economics and how the whole rail strategy now looks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So for us it's primarily bringing Bakken crude oil to the West Coast.
First we're very confident that the pressure on the cost along that whole distribution system from loading to unloading and rail rates and railcar costs and all that are under a lot of pressure.
And they aren't going to come down pretty significantly in our view over time here which will further improve the competitiveness specifically of moving Bakken crude oil into the West Coast.
And so how we think Bakken crude oil will trade relative to the alternatives of primarily going to the middle part of the country or to the Gulf Coast the rail economics will still be supportive of taking it to the West Coast.
Understood.
See you in December Greg.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Sam Ramraj.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss the fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
The earnings release which includes financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings release which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and our future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial performance and then turn the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported fourth quarter and full year results.
2015 was a record for EBITDA and earnings for Tesoro.
This performance demonstrates the value of our highly integrated business model and successful execution of our annual improvement plans.
Fourth quarter net earnings from continuing operations were $54 million or $0.45 per diluted share compared to $172 million or $1.34 per diluted share last year.
Reported results for the quarter include an inventory charge due to a lower cost to market valuation adjustment of $167 million after-tax or $1.38 per diluted share.
This adjustment is the result of the decline in crude oil and product prices relative to our LIFO carrying values.
Excluding this item adjusted net earnings for the fourth quarter were $221 million or $1.83 per diluted share.
Reported results in the quarter included the following three items $30 million or $0.15 a share from the impact of additional RIN cost accruals following the recently announced EPA requirements under the Renewable Fuel Standard program; $24 million or $0.07 a share representing an increase in the expected remediation costs associated with the 2013 crude oil pipeline release at Tioga North Dakota; and $15 million or $0.07 per diluted share of asset impairments due to the current crude oil price environment.
Total corporate and unallocated costs for the fourth quarter were $97 million which was higher than our guidance of $75 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher than expected accruals for some corporate expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $665 million an increase of 29% from $570 million a year ago.
For the full year 2015 net earnings from continuing operations was $1.5 billion or $12.39 per diluted share versus $872 million or $6.67 per share a year ago.
Excluding special items net earnings for 2015 was $1.7 billion or $13.91 per diluted share compared to $911 million or $6.97 per diluted share for 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $3.9 billion up 71% from $2.3 billion a year ago.
Turning to our business segment results.
Refining adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter 2015 was $414 million an increase of 119% from $189 million a year ago.
Total refinery throughput for the fourth quarter was 807 000 barrels a day or 95% utilization.
The Tesoro Index for the fourth quarter was $15.60 per barrel with the realized gross refining margin of $12.76 per barrel or 82% of the Tesoro Index.
This quarter's capture rate was primarily impacted by narrowing crude oil differentials.
For instance Bakken differentials in the quarter narrowed over $2 relative to WTI and almost $6 relative to [ANS].
Manufacturing costs in the fourth quarter increased over $0.08 per barrel over last year to $5.62 due to unplanned repairs and maintenance during the quarter.
For full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA for refining was $2.7 billion a year-over-year increase of 68%.
Total refinery throughput for 2015 was 787 000 barrels a day or 93% utilization.
The realized gross refining margin for 2015 was $16.22 a barrel or a capture of 84% of the Tesoro Index.
2015 capture rates were impacted by the labor disruptions in the first quarter narrowed crude oil differentials refinery downtime inventory impacts related to falling crude oil prices and running more intermediate feedstock and refineries during turnarounds and maintenance.
Moving to logistics this segment's adjusted EBITDA was $155 million in the fourth quarter compared to $94 million a year ago.
These results include a charge of approximately $24 million for expected future remediation costs for the 2013 Tioga North Dakota crude oil pipeline release.
The substantial year-over-year increase in EBITDA was primarily driven by contributions from our Rockies Natural Gas Business which delivered $285 million of EBITDA in 2015 and increased volumes through all of TLLP’s business segments.
The total general partner and limited partner distributions received by Tesoro were $42 million during the fourth quarter and $148 million for the year.
This is an increase of $61 million or 70% versus full year 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $636 million up from $318 million last year.
For our marketing segment adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $187 million compared to $273 million last year.
The decline is largely attributed to lower marketing margins.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was a record $945 million a year-over-year increase of 59% and was driven by strong growth in consumer demand that led to higher fuel volumes.
Marketing integration increased to 94% for the year versus 86% a year ago.
As the result of strong operational performance annual improvements and favorable market conditions Tesoro generated $1.3 billion of free cash flow in 2015.
Turning to uses of this free cash flow for 2015 we invested $550 million in high return capital projects repurchased approximately 6.9 million shares for $644 million paid dividends of $228 million and repaid $398 million of secured debt at Tesoro.
We remain committed to delivering strong free cash flow and allocating capital to create long-term value for our shareholders.
Looking ahead you can find details of our planned throughout manufacturing costs and other elements related to our first quarter outlook in our earnings release issued yesterday.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
2015 was a strong year for the company with several accomplishments and significant progress on our growth plans despite the challenges that we experienced during the year.
We achieved record EBITDA in all business segments supported by strong consumer demand favorable market conditions and our annual improvement program.
In 2015 the Tesoro index was $19.31 per barrel as a result of some of the unplanned operating issues in the industry on the West Coast.
For 2016 we expect a Tesoro Index of $12 to $14 per barrel which is an improvement of $1.50 to $2 per barrel versus 2014.
The lower crude oil price environment is supportive to product demand.
For 2015 [US Clean] product demand was up approximately 2% year-over-year and [PAD 5] cleaning product demand was up 2.5%.
Vehicle miles traveled in [PAD 5] has continued to outpace the US average.
In November California miles traveled had a robust year-over-year growth rate of 6.7% compared to the US growth rate of 3.4%.
Turning to our operations for the fourth quarter.
Overall we had a challenging December in our refining segment due to some unplanned downtime.
In the West Coast region the Los Angeles refinery experienced problems with both the fluid catalytic crackers and this impacted our cleaning product yield.
Our operations in the mid-continent and the Pacific Northwest had high utilization in the quarter.
However capture rates were impacted primarily by narrowing crude oil differentials.
We were able to optimize our operations and achieve 95% utilization which was in line with our guidance.
During the quarter we completed the projects to install flare gas recovery systems at our Salt Lake City Mandan and Anacortes refineries.
The $217 million in combined projects were delivered under budget and on time and these recovery systems allow us to reduce the amount of emissions and potential of flaring events at these refineries.
Moving to our logistics segment.
During 2015 we continued to execute our strategy to grow TLLP’s integrated full service logistics business.
Volumes in all of our business segments continued to grow in the face of a challenging and difficult commodity price environment.
During 2015 our crude oil gathering volumes were up 37% year-over-year.
Natural gas gathering volumes increased approximately 5% year-over-year.
Fee-based processing and NGL processing throughout increased approximately 8% and 20% respectively and terminating volumes were up 4% transportation pipeline volumes were up 3% year-over-year.
We are very pleased with the performance of our Rockies Natural Gas Business in 2015.
For the full year the Rockies Natural Gas Business contributed $285 million of adjusted EBITDA exceeding its target of $275 million.
Based on the combined value of the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business for $2.5 billion and the approximately $400 million value for the QEPM merger TLLP realized an implied multiple of approximately 10 times EBITDA in our first full calendar year of ownership.
This was basically one year ahead of our original goal.
Because of the successful integration we were able to capture approximately $30 million of synergies in the full year 2015 exceeding our $25 million target.
TLLP also announced several new organic growth projects that should position TLLP for future growth.
Additionally TLLP continued to grow our portfolio of our logistics assets through the acquisition of the Los Angeles storage and pipeline asset acquisition from Tesoro in November of 2015.
We remain committed to growing our full service logistics business through our focus on four things growing and optimizing our stable fee-based business expanding our backlog of high-return organic growth projects pursuing strategic third-party acquisitions and finally providing future dropdown opportunities.
Now turning to marketing.
This segment contributed significantly to our performance for 2015.
EBITDA was a record $945 million and the fuel margin was $0.14 per gallon.
In the fourth quarter we improved our integration to 94% from 86% a year ago increased same-store sales by about 1% and signed a strategic supply agreement with a key customer to sell fuel at 55 high volume retail stations in the greater Las Vegas Nevada area.
Shifting to our annual improvements.
We successfully executed our plans and estimate improvements of approximately $670 million versus our $550 million to $670 million goal.
We delivered approximately $350 million in West Coast improvements and capturing margin improvements.
These include pipeline connections between the Los Angeles refinery new cargo sharing between our California refineries the completion of the second phase expansion of the waxy crude project at our Salt Lake City refinery improved crude blending processing at our Mandan refinery and operating expense reductions.
We also delivered approximately $320 million of logistics growth in 2015 against our target of $325 million to $375 million.
Tesoro expects to deliver between $400 million and $500 million of annual improvements in 2016 through refining improvements of $200 million to $250 million from better flexibility and yield optimization and cost management; logistics improvement of $175 million to $200 million through acquisitions and organic growth projects and marketing improvements of $25 million to $50 million through small acquisitions and organic growth.
Additionally we are making strategic investments that should add long-term value and are currently progressing well in the permitting process.
These include the Los Angeles integration and compliance project the cleaning product upgrade project on the west coast and the Vancouver energy project.
The Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC released a draft environmental impact statement in November of 2015 and the public comment period closed January 22.
Once EFSEC completes its final environmental impact statement and completes an adjudicating phase we expect EFSEC to submit its recommendation to the governor of Washington.
We are very committed to the proposed 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail to marine terminal and remain confident that a thorough evaluation will clearly demonstrate that we can design construct and operate a safe environmentally responsible facility that offers benefits to the state of Washington and the west coast.
Let me conclude by saying that we remain focused on strong operating performance for 2016 and executing our annual improvements and with that we will now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Greg I've got two if I may.
First of all on the retail numbers obviously pretty astonishing for the whole year but we've had a year where we've had a couple of major pull backs and oil prices one at the start I guess one in the middle and I guess you could say three at the end which obviously helps the retail lag effect.
So what I'm kind of wondering is as you see it what do you think mid-cycle a good mid-cycle number is absent those kind of effects given the otherwise strength of the retail market in California and I've got a follow-up please.
Well first good morning Doug.
The answer to your question about how we see the marketing environment for Tesoro is that in our analyst meeting in December we stated that kind of on a mid-cycle basis we estimate the EBITDA contribution from marketing at around $650 million a year and that is kind of the base that we have set as we continue to make improvements in the marketing business.
And that was before acquisitions right? Right that is just kind of a base with the current business that we have under how we see the market environment going forward marketing margin environment going forward.
Thank you.
My follow-up is really just more of a micro-comment to the West Coast margins obviously we are in – I guess we are in the low demand period it is winter time I suppose.
It's not terribly cold I suppose but the point is that West Coast margins have come off pretty hard and I'm curious as to how you see the outlook for 2016 relative to 2015 given obviously the impact that [Indiscernible] had for most of last year.
Any insight you can offer on that would be helpful? Thank you.
Yes I think – it is a good question Doug.
I think it is easier to base your reference case on 2014 versus 2015 just because of the extenuating issues on the west coast in 2015.
So when we look at the West Coast market fundamentals for 2016 we see supportive demand in the marketplace driven by the economic conditions on the West Coast the unemployment rate vehicle miles of all those factors.
So we see continued supportive demand on the West Coast and when you look at the fundamentals of just production and demand and the ability to move products off of the west coast is to seek higher margin markets and that the fundamentals look very good to us and as we said in the past we see margins relative to 2014 up between $1 to $2 a barrel because [Indiscernible] is running at reasonably high utilization rates.
I appreciate that Greg.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Hi Neil.
So Greg question related to the Tesoro index which is up a couple of bucks versus the 2014 level.
I guess the question is related to the crude differentials that are embedded within that Tesoro index both for things like Brent Bakken and Brent WTI.
Given what we see on our screen today is there a delta between what is baked into the index and what is on the screen? And then if this does become the new normal which at least for 2016 what levers do you have to adjust your fleet and your crude slate to adjust to that? Steven is going to respond to your question Neil.
Yes if you look at the last couple of quarters I think they are pretty good indicators of how the differentials kind of flow through our margins.
When you look at Q3 and we had a capture rate of about 90% and in Q4 as we reported today we came in at about 82% and that is really driven primarily by what has happened with differentials in particular mid-continent Bakken Canadian crudes differentials came down substantially.
As we look forward to the first quarter into next year as we said at Investor Day we using a planning basis of transportation economics setting the differentials across the crude.
So depending on your longer-term view we still think that that is fundamentally which should set our capture rate and when they return to those levels we think capture rate in the high 90s 100% make sense as we said in Investor Day but clearly right now the markets not pricing the crude oil differentials at transportation.
So we are seeing that headwind as we saw in the fourth quarter.
So the final answer in response to your question Neil about what are the levers and [Indiscernible] naturally we will look at all the different types of crude that we can substitute and also how can we find through our logistics system part of our integrated value with ways to capture advantages in crude supply costs and that they will be able to reflect in our crude cost but that is not going to offset all of it.
So like Steven said at least in the early part of the year we think we are under – it is under pressure with the crude diffs.
It makes a lot of sense.
Thanks Greg and Steven.
The follow-up question is just related to M&amp;A can you talk big picture how you think aboutthe opportunityset that is out there as it relates to refining M&amp;A and then especially in the mid-continent you have expressed interest is that being a region where you want to grow is that still the place that you want the build the business? Our view of the future is still based upon what you just said Neil and our focus has always been to identify any potential opportunities that we believe would be a strong fit with our business and primarily allow us to be able to go in and create value by how we operate the business and how we can execute our business model in that.
So as part of any evaluations that we do and we have been doing them for ever since I have been at Tesoro we look at the same all of those factors but we are also very aware of the market environment and what is happening to crack spreads.
We do our own projections on where we see crack spreads growing as well as crude oil differentials and those all factor into it.
So our approach is really unchanged and we just have to see what happens as we go forward.
I appreciate the comments.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Neil.
Your next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hi Paul.
I have actually several quick questions the first one is for Stevens Stevens in the past when we see rapid changes of oil prices towards the end of the quarter you create a mismatch between the fiscal barrel when it is being posted and the paper barrel that you hedge on the changing value.
So you could be either hedging gain or hedging loss due to that timing gap in this quarter do we have that and if we do how big is that number? Yes actually I think Doug mentioned earlier that we saw several significant moves down in crude throughout the year and so there has been a lot of volatility in that calculation that you just mentioned.
Actually when you look at the fourth quarter on a standalone basis we had about as much as that coming into the quarter as going out.
So the fourth quarter number is pretty reflective of what is underneath the business but you are right when you see a rapid decline in crude oil prices in the back half of a quarter particularly in the last few weeks like we saw you do have some headwind that you got offset coming into the next quarter.
We would estimate that to be somewhere between $50 million and $75 million.
Okay but for the fourth quarter spend along that incoming and out coming [Indiscernible]? That is right.
Okay.
And that on the turnaround activities by looking at 2016 and since you gave the throughput already for something from the second quarter to the end of the year comparing to 2015 should we assume it is going to be higher lower or about the same? I think Paul the best way to look at the turnaround activity for the company is we provide the dollar magnitude which you are aware of for ’16 and you can look at it relative to ’15 you can see that it is slightly higher in ’16 versus ’15 and for our system most of it is concentrated in the first – early part of the year probably the first four months of the year and then in the latter part of the year.
So it is pretty quiet all the time in-between there.
So we are just completing the turnaround at Martinez.
We are going into turnaround at Los Angeles and then we will do turnarounds at the latter part of the year.
Great.
When we are talking about the turnaround maybe I can ask this question last year don’t know whether you think the same way about this since now you have more than your fair share of operating upside in your west coast and Pacific Northwest system just curious that is that a structural issue related to the asset some hardware or that is primarily human error or it is just purely unlucky? Yes Paul I think first you are accurate that the way we evaluate our profitability or lack of profitability when we have operating problem was higher in 2015 than what we expect to occur normally in the system and really it's a number of problems that -- different things that caused different problems at times and unfortunately some of them are kind of sound like simple things like when we lost power because we had a power outage up in Pacific North West that caused the refinery to go down that's sort of caused LPOs -- not that aren’t built into our plants but it is not structural it is not human error it's none of those factors.
It's just a combination of a number of different things that we continue to work on and drive improvements in our system.
Do you have a rough estimate what was the actual repay cost and the loss opportunity cost in the fourth quarter related to the turn [ph] down time? Yes I think it's little bit challenging in the fourth quarter for a couple of reasons.
One was that the actual downtime from not running was probably in the $50 million to $75 million range.
Unfortunately it's also complicated at the end of the year when you have downtime and you build inventories on that.
So that doesn't include the total system impact but I mentioned in my speaking points that we had issues with both cat crackers at the Los Angeles refinery and those the impact on those what we would call our loss profit opportunity was $50 million to $75 million.
Those are corrected and they are back up and running and everything is in good condition once again.
But there are side impacts on that that we don't talk about in that $50 million to $75 million because it's how we build inventory and how we are going to run inventory in a number of different factors.
Okay.
A final question.
Greg is there any additional update comparing to December and the next meeting on the permit receiving permit for the aero [ph] integration part and the [Indiscernible] ? So on all of our kind of our three major strategic initiatives on Los Angeles like you said Paul on West coast what we call our product upgrade project which includes xylenes as well as Vancouver energy.
They are all in the permitting phase.
Everything from is progressing it's in the hands of the agencies the different agencies are responsible for those and we are -- I talked about the Vancouver energy where we stand on that we are expecting the environmental impacts study from the Los Angeles hopefully any day now and we are in the environmental impact study up in the Pacific North West on that.
So those are that's kind of where they all stand.
So the previous guidance in terms of time line you gave in December -- do you just assume that still you haven't seen anything that changed from those time line? At this point in time today we have not seen that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Yes.
So I’m -- just a month has passed since the analyst day but when I think about some of the risks to your projections the first one I would like to talk about a little bit is on the retail side.
I mean have you made any progress in terms of hiring new people to continue to build out that organization which is one of the things I think you were going to do? Yes and we are advancing the work on our retail plan that we talked about in December and feel very confident that we are moving ahead well with our implementation plan.
Right.
I mean any change in the progress on M&amp;A I mean or we’ll just wait until things get announced.
Yes that was -- I mean that was kind of our future view of things that we would be working on and as you would completely understand that’s something that happens overtime and its things that we will develop as we go forward so… Okay.
Then switching to the permitting you said progress but any updates on particularly I guess LA integration and the xylenes and clean fuels projects? Nothing addition to what I just answered in response to Paul's question that we are in that we’re fully involved in the process.
As a company we are highly responsive to the request from the different agencies to answer questions and all that and we at the end of the day we have to be we are depended upon them to kind of move the ball forward and that's where we are on all of them.
So right now we don't see any issues or obstacles of that but we are in the process and as you’ve heard us say some of them are a very long process.
Okay.
And then final quick one just you managed to get a new credit facility I think for TLLP also you were once worried about MLP funding stress but maybe talk a little bit about any concerns or otherwise that you have about funding the drop down into a TLLP from a TSO perspective? Yes a good question Ed and I appreciate you asked it.
Let me ask Steven to comment on that.
Yes we are really pleased with what we have been able to do with creating a very flexible and larger and lower cost revolver within TLLP.
That’s now closed and we’ve gone from a capacity of 900 million to 1.7 with really two capacities one for a billion to able to allow us to fund drop downs and the rest for general purposes.
And we are able to do that with a lower overall spreads and importantly as we want to move TLLP to investment grid and Tesoro it's got fall over covenants now that allow it to become an investment grade facility.
So in terms of that part of the balance sheet we feel very good about having the capacity to manage short term liquidity needs.
The longer term or in the intermediate term the debt and equity markets in MLP space are very unstable right now; lot of volatility very very poor fund flow is going into the space.
And so as we said in the Investor Day we’ve really got two portfolios of investments in there the organic growth projects which are about $400 million that are planned for 2016 which we feel we could fund very very easily through our ATM program that's equity from unit holders as well as small amount of debt.
The drop downs we continue to have in our plan two drop downs for 2016 that's what we talked about at Investor Day the great northern acquisition that we just completed as well as the Alaska assets.
Once we complete closure of that transaction and so we are preparing to be able to do that.
We think there is still good drop downs to make.
The uncertainty is when will the MLP market support those types of transactions.
So we continue to monitor that and we will be prepared to execute when the market stabilize.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ed.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Phil.
First question is just a follow up to that to the extent that the MLP markets remain challenged would you be willing to take back units to support the drops or use lower multiple or do something creative or would you be more inclined to slow down the drop pace of the market and remain challenging? I think we always look at all those options but we think it's important to for Tesoro to get cash from these drop downs.
We have laid out that base plan for this year kind of recognizing the weakness in MLP market of 50% cash proceeds coming from drop downs ideally it would be more than that.
And so we’ll look at all the facts and circumstances the markets develop but that wouldn't be our primary path.
And in terms of evaluation we really each transaction has sustained on its own and be done at market.
And so we don't think it makes a lot of sense to try to force something.
We wanted if you think about the principals what we do with drop downs we are supportive to TLP growth.
It provides cash back to Tesoro and it -- we do that in a way that puts us on a path to investment grade.
And so trying to flex other variables that compromise those principals is not our primary approach.
Understood.
Okay.
Second question is just on the California capture rates.
Greg you mentioned that $50 million to $75 million headwind but even despite that actually the capture rate in California looked reasonably stable over the past couple of quarters.
So ex that I mean as you look ahead to 2016 and all the business improvements that you are targeting especially in the West coast do you know the way that you are thinking about what you would like to target for that capture rate? Well of course we’d like to capture 100% of the index and that's what we would strive to do.
And we have more flexibility in California versus some of the other questions that was asked about capture specifically if you go into like Mandan or Salt lake or where more pricing of WTI.
So I mean our forecast for ANS crude related to brand is still in the same range that it's been over the last few years in that but we see opportunities particularly from yields and that to continue to work on our capture there.
So we view the California region the West coast region from a capture more favorably versus the inland markets.
Sure.
Okay.
Last question is just on the cash from operations.
Was there a sizable working capital impact in the quarter or that TSO [ph] was weaker than my model? Yes we would have expected actually to either generate cash from drawing down working capital or remain close to flat and we had about $150 million working capital charge in the quarter on the balance sheet.
Greg mentioned that earlier as we look at operational issues causing us to build inventory at the end of the year when we would have wanted to draw inventory that's the headwind he was speaking of.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Sam Margolin from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
How are you? Good Sam.
Some investors have noticed that the margins currently are implying some real pressure for the Asian refining system and potential utilization swings and shut capacity as a result.
I wonder if you are noticing any developments on that front and I ask because PADD 5 gasoline imports were up quite a bit last year given the price environment and the added deterrent.
So any color on sort of the trans-Pacific environment I think would be helpful to frame the 2016 outlook against your more positive underlying view of demand.
Yes I think you can you hear some of the factors going on kind of particularly centered around China and what’s happening in Asia with demand and that it definitely will have an impact on the crack spread environment in Asia.
I think though Sam from a West coast standpoint we don't see that having an impact on the West coast the imports you are exactly right were higher because the market needed the product to come in to meet the demand as a result of the operating problems on the West coast last year.
And we believe once those kind of work for the system especially on the West coast that the overall fundamentals like I said earlier are supportive to a good margin environment in 2016.
Okay.
Thanks.
And this one is a little bit more focused on your own assets.
After the Los Angeles integration it sounds like the system is going to be referred to as sort of one refinery.
Is that going to have any effect on how we should think about turnarounds if there is more redundancy and you referenced the turnaround at Los Angeles or some down time the capture effect or the yield effect might come through the results differently and is that or maybe that’s just embedded in your improvement targets anyway? Well from a way the system is talked about and reflected in our reporting the Los Angeles was integrated financially almost on day one when we took over.
So we don't have -- we don't keep two sets of books on each part of the two refinery.
So that was integrated immediately the next step as you just pointed out is actual physical integration which helps us to optimize the configuration refinery like we have talked about now for the last couple of years where we basically able to shut down a cat cracker that existed at the Wilmington portion of the Los Angeles refinery and drive better flexibility between the yields off of the refinery now but you won’t see any differences in how we talk about it really and it won’t change turnarounds of that it just gives us a lot more flexibility to operate the refinery.
Understood.
Thanks so much.
Thank you Sam.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hi Jeff.
I was hoping to talk a little bit about the Pacific North West and crude feet stock flexibility you highlighted in your opening remarks that the Bakken ANS differentials contracted could you talk about your flexibility to shift away from Bakken in periods when those differentials narrow and with this competitive market are you seeing the rail transportation cost become from competitive how do the Bakken barrels look economically for Pacific North West? Yes so we have the things flexibility that existed before we started moving Bakken to the West coast which would put us using if we chose to using more ANS and then look for other types of foreign crews that we could bring in to the Pacific North West.
Steven talked about the crude dips [ph] particularly the Bakken and this now that have been under a lot of pressure and that we are starting to see lowering of the supply chain cost to get the crude over there that it's starting to happen and in different parts of the supply chain and we believe that over time here in the next short period of time we will be able to make that cost very competitive especially with for example the pipeline cost to get to the Gulf Coast of the United States and we still get the yield advantage that we have talked about for sometime relative to like say running ANS on the West coast.
Great.
Great.
On the marketing side congratulations on the record earnings and appreciate the normalized margin you provided earlier on the call.
Could you talk a little bit about the major drivers of profitability within retail for example the TSO index was similar in 4Q to2Q of last year yet there was fairly significant difference in fuel margin could you just highlight in that consolidated marketing organization what those major drivers of profitability are that it could cause it to be stronger or weaker than the index might suggest? Yes I didn't look at your specific question Jeff.
You looked at something differently than I have looked at 4Q to 2Q I haven't looked that.
We can definitely go back and look at that but the drivers are for us in the marketing business are one is getting high throughput through the systems because we can cross all of the different models that we have whether it be our wholesale business or our we are company owned but operated by the multi-side operators.
And then the big lever for us is in our ARCO model of being able to go in and drive improvements in that business that are across the board and all things of how the market reacts to the changing prices.
Okay.
And I then I guess we historically kind of tracked the retail side of the equation but the wholesale profitability is going to vary I guess primarily directionally with crude and product prices is that fair? Right.
Okay.
Thanks for your comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Your next question comes from Bradley Heffern from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Brad.
Greg just thinking about repurchases in the current environment I am sort of curious how value driven you are at the moment? Obviously the stock has come up a decent amount does that make you want to allocate more capital at the repurchases or do you purely think about it as a return of capital that you don't need to run the business? Brad we look we have a very balanced and disciplined approach to how we manage the cash in the company and we are always looking forward to we are not worried about just a day but we are looking what our plans are for the next 12 to 24 months and our priorities they haven't changed actually.
The first priority is that we have very valuable strategic projects that we want to be able to drive our fundamental improvement in the overall profitability of the company.
We’ve talked about those in the past.
So we have a portfolio of those projects.
Today we have some larger projects that we have already mentioned and then we always have a number of small ones that we kind of balance the amount of cash that we want to return in the business but we are very disciplined about putting a certain amount of cash back into the business that helps drive fundamental improvement overtime so that we get that value from there.
And then secondly to be able to go in and maintain a very competitive dividend and then use the free cash flow to be able to then purchase stock back in that.
So that's the drivers for us is we always look at what we have going on over the next 12 to sometimes as long as 24 months because of the timing of major projects that and take a very balanced approach to managing the cash flow from the company.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
I think that's clear.
And then just thinking about TLLP can you talk a little bit about your volume outlook for the system on both the oil and the gas side obviously I think you are guiding to lower gasoline atleast in the first quarter but do you see yourself having an advantage where you can offset the overall decline in those basins? Yes we are -- I mean the gas lines that we are guiding to little bit lower as the seasonal issue so just to be clear about that.
So I think generally across our entire system we see good support on the volumes from whether it be in the crude oil gas refined products.
And so we don't see any unnecessary pressure on any of those parts of the TLLP drivers and all so we are pretty supportive of what we have going on.
We believe that the organic project that Steven talked about continue to allow us to bring additional volumes on to the system and help enhance the connection with other logistics systems in that so we are very supportive of how we look at the volume growth for TLLP for 2016 in a very difficult environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from [Indiscernible] of Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Please proceed.
Hi [Tee] Hey how are you doing Greg thanks.
Back on marketing I have a higher level question.
I don't think you really addressed this back in December but it seems like there has been a lot of changes in the company's strategy from company operated system to your spec to this MSO model you have for a while now now it seems like you are back to focusing on a more branded storage strategy can you just discuss the thinking on all the shifts in the marketing strategy? Well first of all I would represent it a little bit differently.
I wouldn't call it a lot of shifts.
So let me provide some clarity around how we are thinking about that.
One we truly truly believe that there is incredible value in our integrated business model because of where we operate as a company so that's very important.
Two marketing is a critical part of how we are able to drive high utilization in our refineries in that connection there so then you look at our portfolio of marketing channels then you can call them whether they be company owned and operated or a wholesale or a dealer channel and that's so that’s kind of always been our push has been to be able to grow that integration in marketing.
So that's very important.
Then the second thing is overtime we’d optimize that channel mix and part of that has been like take what was company operated in go to this multi setup operator which basically allow someone else just to operate the stations but the financial drivers in that aren't significantly different as if we were to operate them ourselves.
I think that's an important point.
And then being able to go out and strengthen our portfolio of marketing channels by one the acquisition of the ARCO brand was a significant enhancement to our marketing portfolio.
So it gives us that dealer channel in there.
We did acquire some ARCO stations last year that fits in with our portfolio but that's an important part of it.
Our company owned but multi-side operator model is a part of that and then growing the wholesale channel is a part of that.
So I don't think that we are continuing to strengthen the portfolio and our plan that we laid out going forward is that by each region we want to be at least fully integrated with refining and some regions more integrated and be net buyers in the market and have a very good portfolio which would be different by regions that allows the portfolio around each reason to be driven by both return on invested capital on the profitability of the channel and then on the kind of the rate-ability as it impacts refining.
So long winded answer to your question but that's how we look at it.
Okay.
Yes appreciate that.
So on any refining M&amp;A maybe looking at how important is it to have also integrated retail system in any sort of opportunity maybe looking at.
As the company looks at opportunities to acquire assets that fit in with our business be we believe our business model is a key driver of what we want to be able to do so having the ability to have marketing integrated with it is an important part of it.
It doesn't necessarily mean it has to be there today but it has to be in a market where we can drive integrated value overtime just like we have into Tesoro.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I think I know the answer to this question but do you believe you are receiving fair value from marketing in your stock price and if not what are your thoughts on realizing those value input? You can always look at some of the parts in that and come up with different answers I we are very confident that with the plans that we are working on and are implementing around marketing there is very good potential to grow the value of the marketing business to the company.
That we are very confident and and then how that's reflected in value overtime is something we will have – we will see how that determines as we are able to demonstrate success with our plan over the next two or three years like we laid out.
We’re -- as you recall we said in December that based upon our normalized environment of around 650 for marketing our intentions are to get that to a $1 billion by 2018.
What has been off of the business that under consideration potentially down the road? We look at everything – we have to look at everything that doesn't fit our business model.
Our business model is to be very integrated but we also recognize it as we manage the big capital needs of the company that we need to take a very holistic and a very broad approach about what is the best most cost effective way to supply capital to the company and redeploy that capital to get good returns on the business.
So we will look at all different possibilities but it’s spinning off the marketing business in our view isn't something that is attractive from a value of creation standpoint.
Okay.
Thanks.
That was great.
Appreciate it.
Thank you [Tee] Your next question comes from Faisal Khan from Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Good morning Faisal.
Good morning Greg.
Morning.
Just a couple of questions just maybe one of accounting questions.
The win expense you guys talked about in the release the $3 million or $0.15.
I also thought that the value sort of offset by what you made in the marketing business off the rent.
So I think if you could give us a little more clarity around why that was expense over the quarter versus netted out against marketing and refining.
So our approach on rents is to stay balanced with based upon what the requirements are and that expense reflects when the EPA made the changes for 2000 and the change for 2014 excuse me and 2015 we didn't have our position fully covered because we stayed balanced.
And so once they made the change which increased the requirement for 2014 and 2015 we went into to then what we accrued for that expense to cover the rents to beat our obligations for 2014 and 2015 which is different than your question about how they pricing the market.
That is just the -- our approach was to be balanced on rents and we were not balanced once the government released their final estimate at the end of November and that accounts for that $30 million that Steven referenced is the accounting to accrue for that liability.
Okay and just the last -- [Indiscernible] are you guys balanced I mean can you ratchet up blending and ratchet it down blending depending upon what your -- the requirements are at this… Well we don't ratchet it down because we have to we meet all the requirements we don't ratchet the blending down but our system is positioned because of the high integration that we have that we blend and we are to the generator of fair number of rents in our system.
Yes that’s how that works.
But you balance it on that and that longer short or you are balanced one for one based on what the requirement is.
We are probably slightly short because we don't sell a 100% of our gasoline into the market into the where we can blend and it depends on how much we export.
Okay.
And so the cost for the RIN still shows up in refining and the benefit of the RIN shows up in marketing -- I’d sort of get that straight is that still correct? Yes the refining is the obligated party in our company to pay for the RIN value and marketing is the generator of the RINS.
Okay.
Okay.
Understood.
And then the asset impairment you took in the quarter relate to a crude oil asset which asset was that that you had taken impairment on? In the quarter we had been working on two pipeline projects one was the Uinta pipeline and the second one was the Trans-Foreland pipeline which was the pipeline up in Cook Inlet that was going to allow us to connect Cook Inlet production directly to our refinery and avoid shipping and those when the crude price environment started to decline we had that engineering work kind of sitting on the shelf and we have to be able to go in and say is there a reasonable expectation that we will be able to start those projects up again in a relatively short period of time and the answer was no.
So we rode off the engineering work that was attributable to just those two projects.
Okay makes sense.
And last question from me.
I mean with the sort of -- you guys have talked about how the differential lower differential that sort of narrow differential that impacted capture.
How do you change your purchasing patterns for crude oil are you -- would you say you are taking more imported crude today than lower 48 compared to few quarters ago or is it roughly the same balance? We have been taking in more foreign crude into our system over the last several bit [ph] as the differentials have justified doing that so.
And we do that all the time [Indiscernible] it's not unusual.
I mean we do it overtime depending on how we need to balance our system and respond to it so but we are taking in more foreign crude today.
Is there any way to quantify that what that in terms of percentage in terms? No we don't that's kind of commercially sensitive information.
Okay.
Got it.
I had to try.
Thanks I appreciate the time.
Thank you Faisal.
Your next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Sorry there are two quick follow-up.
One Steven do you have a rough percentage on TLLP the take or pay contract on your overall customer how many of them or what percentages are below the investment grade kind of the party? I think that let me answer that question Paul.
We have that I think in a -- we don't have it with us here this morning but we do have that available in our prior TLLP public information that we provided out.
So Sam or someone can work with you and give you that information.
So it is available we don’t have it with us this morning.
Okay.
That would be great.
And Greg a second question maybe a little bit more strategic and longer term.
You guys have done phenomenally over the last several years and with the increasing concern from the market on the macro outlook not so much seen in U.S.
but also in overseas weakness in the economy and all that.
Does it make sense at this point given there are still very strong cash flow to allocate part of your free cash flow maybe 20% or so to put it into your balance sheet to further strengthen your already strong balance sheet.
I mean for two for one as an insurance policy in case if the uncertainty turned out to be real or that if it doesn't then at some point that if we do get into a down turn you will be in an excellent position to take opportunity of any investment opportunity that say corresponding the percentage.
So I was just curious if that something that even remotely that you guys are thinking along those lines? It's an excellent question Paul.
We absolutely I think it goes back to our point about how we look at managing the cash flow with the company and our view is to be very focused on looking at different scenarios that happen overtime and under those scenarios what’s the impact to the company and then how should we be spending the cash with the company.
So the answer is that we look at that all of the time and are very focused on how we spend the money of the company and I mean we’ve worked hard actually like you said to create the balance sheet that we have today.
I mean we’ve worked really hard to get that to a pretty low level.
We typically on it to -- so on a non-consolidated basis at the end of the year we were kind of almost debt free when you look at our cash of a billion and debt of 1.2 billion.
And then to sort of logistics we believe can stand on its own and has because of a good customer base and that we’ll be able to able to meet all of its requirement but the answer to your question is yes we are very focused on different market environments and how we want to be positioned for those environments which may cause us to do things differently.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey last but not least good morning gentlemen.
Hey Roger.
Real quick I just wanted to hit you on the M&amp;A front and not necessarily just the refining side but lot of stress and strains throughout the MLP sector and I am wondering you mentioned the drop down potentially a limitation for you given market conditions.
Can you do acquisitions as you have been doing and maybe even a little more aggressively given that the industry overall the sector overall is somewhat capital constraint here? I think if you look at our approach is that we have to be very kind of judicious in the type of opportunities that we want to pursue.
That they need to fit in they need to be high quality businesses that have that are -- that fit in with the way that we operate the business and I think for example at the beginning of January we closed on this system up in North Dakota that fits in extremely well to our business.
We believe that the value that we’ll create with that is very very attractive and we need to continue to do follow the same approach on other assets and that.
So we are Steven I think Steven's point around being able to fund the drop downs in that basically said that we are going to go in and look for those opportunities in a markets that allows us to go to the market for both debt and equity to fund that and it won’t be any different from any type of logistics acquisition we have the added benefit is that we can do those sort of like we recently done on two of them that are drop downs for 2016.
Right and I was just trying to think how do you weigh acquisitions? What is the sort of internal calculation that you think about between say maybe an accelerated share repurchase situation versus the opportunistic acquisition? Yes the value we have to look at the acquisitions and make sure that the value contribution gives the return that meets our objectives relative to other uses of capital that's it's no more complicated than that really.
But I think what the important part there is is that because of the environment that we are in is everyone has stated is you have to be very focused on where that revenue comes from those different assets so that you have a strong business in a weak environment.
Right.
Okay.
That's it from me thank you.
Thank you Roger.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.